madam president! mr. president, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! europe faces many challenges. we are facing many crises and the french presidency will certainly not have an easy time, but we hope that for the sake of the european people we will be able to face all these crises. we should prioritize what is most important to us at this moment, what is most important. the president has presented a very ambitious programme for the presidency, but i think we should first of all identify the main points to which we will now refer in our debate and seek unity. because what europe needs today is unity, it needs stability and it needs good solutions, debate, not mutual accusations or attempts to discredit a country or a political group just because it has different views than the rest of us, than the majority in this room. time for unity in europe building unity in diversity is very difficult, but this is the value of europe, this is what europe was built on. there is no issue more important today than the energy crisis, the poverty of europeans and the security of europeans. these are real threats facing europeans in our countries today, and we must therefore focus on these problems first and help to solve them. and i believe that the french presidency will go in that direction. but i have one final thing to say about the rule of law. because whenever you undermine the rule of law in poland, i have to speak as a former prime minister who also had the opportunity to talk about this with president macron. poland is a country of the rule of law and the voice coming from warsaw, from budapest has the same value and the same meaning as the voice coming from paris, berlin or other european capitals.
madam president, mr president of the council of the union, among the 27 heads of state or government there is a majority of personalities who, let us be frank, have little or no passion for promoting european integration. then there are the frugal ones, those who do the arithmetic when it's time to do the politics. and let us not forget the gravediggers of the rule of law who want to make their public opinion believe that moscow and brussels, brezhnev and von der leyen are the same. and then there is one, if not the only, at least one of the very few, who adopts a resolutely pro-european stance, namely the one who has been holding the presidency of the council of the union since 1 january last. it has the courage to put europe on the map and, by putting europe on the map, it is looking to the future for our citizens, our countries and our continent. president macron had already had the audacity to make europe a major issue in his 2017 election campaign. we can learn from him that in politics, we are in constant anticipation. despite the current context, let us dare to act together with him, against all odds, to make europe stronger, better protected and more dynamic.
president, mr president, i can well imagine that the coincidence of the european presidency and the french presidential elections was a huge opportunity for you, but i hope you can also imagine that not everyone is as happy about it. this convergence weighs on the debate and i fear it also weighs on the european union. because, however you turn it, you give the impression that you are going to use the european presidency for your own re-election, or vice versa, that the european presidency will suffer from the french elections, from your radical vision, which is of course one of an integrated legal system that proposes a single model of governance for this continent: i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. if that is your view, then i regret to say that i have no choice but to join marine le pen in calling on the french to... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, mr president, i wish the french presidency every success. i wish the french presidency every success. do seu discurso destaco two flaws, two gaps. on the one hand, much has to be done with regard to the reform of schengen, and on the other, with regard to external borders. however, the covid-19 pandemic has put internal borders in crisis. today we have a completely redrawn and separated schengen area. the question we have to ask is: what is the vision of the french presidency to restore freedom of movement in the internal schengen area and not just at the external borders? we have also not heard any idea from the french presidency for the future of the economic and monetary union. i have heard of many investments, but not one road map for the future of economic and monetary union. i hear many words, good intentions, but i don't see action. mr president, in your speech you mentioned the great portuguese poet pessoa. i'll answer with a quote from molière, from the women of science: i live on good soup, not on good language.
madam president, president of the french republic, in march 2020, the french and dutch ministers published a non—paper on the social and sustainability aspects of eu trade policy. it called for increased efforts by the commission and member states to implement ambitious environmental and labour standards, as well as sustainability criteria, into the functioning of the international trading system, and to encourage responsible business conduct. over 18 months later, we can appreciate that many of those calls have been transformed into the priorities of the french presidency. however, we lack more details on the fate of one important piece of legislation. the sustainable corporate governance directive has already been withheld from publication twice by the commission, and yet the presidency programme refers to this legislation as a future initiative. well, the future is now, and the french presidency should take concrete actions to make this legislation a reality.
in writing. the beginning of france's six-month presidency of the eu comes at a particularly difficult time, full of challenges for the whole of europe, and its objectives, political strategy and priorities should therefore be given special consideration. unfortunately, the series of crises we have been dealing with so far is being joined by new ones. the pan-european energy crisis is developing in a way that is worrying to say the least, and the community market for carbon dioxide emission allowances in the ets that contributes to its development requires a thorough and urgent reform. never before has a wave of illegal migration had such organized support from governments as it does now from the belarusian regime. the experience of the last few months shows that we can expect a further escalation of attacks on the eastern border of the eu. we are facing increasingly aggressive russian actions both in the area of energy security and in provocative actions against the union and the world, such as military actions on the border with ukraine. a strong and coherent response is more important than ever before, over and above the particular interests of individual member states that bind them to russia. it remains to be hoped that the french presidency will focus honestly and responsibly on tackling the real threats facing us all and will not waste valuable time on secondary issues, such as questioning the rule of law in countries like poland or hungary, and that each of the member states will deal with its own problems.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! europe needs effective tools to regulate the digital services market. the digital services code is a challenge for our times to improve the functioning of the single market, remove barriers to its proper functioning and provide protection and security for basic internet users. the major online platforms often fail to respect the basic rights and principles of internet users, unnecessarily deleting content, pages or online profiles. recently, a political party profile in poland was blocked on facebook, which was followed by almost 700,000 users. in a democratic society, differences of opinion are natural. but we cannot shut the other person's mouth just because he or she has a different opinion on a matter. the digital markets act is an opportunity to create an independent mechanism to monitor platform decisions and effectively protect the interests of smaller platforms. the digital market is not just big internet companies. the backbone of the economy is the small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which have often been able to survive the pandemic by operating efficiently in the online marketplace. the digital services code must be a future-proof solution that ensures security for all users of the digital market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european digital services act will bring about a real revolution, rebalancing the power relationship between platforms and users, giving consumers more protection, transparency on terms and conditions, choice on how to prioritise content and a right to compensation in the event of infringements, and finally giving greater responsibility to marketplaces, which will have to ascertain the identity of those who sell their products there and carry out random checks on them, finally putting serious limits on the proliferation of unsafe or counterfeit products online. platforms will no longer be able to manipulate users, for example by hiding options to deny consent to profiling. the larger ones will then have to further mitigate the systemic risks posed by their power over people and over democracies themselves. algorithms will no longer be black boxes that are inaccessible, but they will finally be subject to that accountability that they have so far escaped. with these historic measures we are putting into practice the warnings that, for example, the whistleblower frances haugen, a courageous informant for democracy, gave us a few months ago when she also came to meet the european parliamentarians. we cannot afford to miss this unique opportunity to re-establish a healthy and fair digital environment for all. so thanks to the work of my colleagues, thanks to the work of mrs schaldemose. i am sure that we are about to take a very important step towards giving more rights and more freedoms to all european citizens in the digital space.
mr. chairman, please! well, every day in this house, you hear that the most important thing is the rule of law and democracy. the only problem is, there is no democracy without freedom of speech. and when you look at it from the standpoint of social monopolists, from the standpoint of social media, you can theoretically say anything, unless it's about abortion, unless it's about gender, unless it's about vaccinations, unless it's about gender reassignment, and so on. in poland, in general, it is for these reasons that large accounts, including the account of one of the political parties, are blocked on social media. now, "i don't agree with what you're saying, but i'd give my life to have the right to say it". we're in france, and this is voltaire. so i'm calling on you, i'm calling on you to vote for freedom of speech, to vote against censorship, so that these values are not just values in words, but in fact. today, you will have that power in your buttons. and i'm calling very warmly and very loudly for this, let's stand up for free speech today and we can make the monopolists care about it not just in words but in deeds.
mr. chairman, please! everything that is legal offline must be legal online. no to censorship on the internet. therefore, there is a need to strike a balance between the protection of freedom of expression and the need to swiftly remove illegal content from the internet. it is necessary to involve the regulators of the member states in which the recipient of the service offered by the intermediary service provider established in another member state is located in an appropriate manner. it is also necessary to guarantee bilateral communication channels between online platforms and authorities of all member states. the text of the regulation should preserve the provision that dsas are without prejudice to the right of service recipients to appeal against a decision to a court or administrative authority in the country in which they are established, in accordance with the applicable law of that country. poland also calls for the addition of provisions that would directly prevent the deletion and blocking of legal accounts emphasis added of political parties and protect political pluralism in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! the digital services act is undoubtedly one of the most important regulations adopted by the european parliament. this regulation shapes the fast-moving digital economy and is an important step towards building a secure online environment. the new rules have a european as well as a global dimension, by extending and clarifying the responsibilities of internet companies offering services in the eu's single market from anywhere in the world. in this context, the establishment of stronger obligations for very large online platforms and a system of independent oversight and dispute resolution for published content is of particular importance. i agree with the comments made by many creative communities and press publishers in poland that the new rules should limit the ability of large online platforms to interfere with legal editorial content, as well as the right to decide which of them are acceptable and which are not. freedom of expression and media pluralism are essential to democracy. i would like to thank the rapporteur, christel schaldemose, for her excellent work and for the text which is supported by most of the political groups. however, the compromise nature of this submission means that not all the amendments proposed to it could necessarily be accepted. however, i am convinced that by voting in favour of some additional amendments to the report, parliament will be able to improve the text, which will constitute a strong mandate for further negotiations with the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly present this motion for a resolution and ask for your support. it is a very important motion of resolution in which we express our unequivocal support for the sudanese people as they strive to fight for their freedom and democracy. the situation in sudan is very tense, with protests continuing since the overthrow of the prime minister last october, and the military and police are intervening heavily. there are dozens of dead and many people missing. it's really a very tense situation. we as europeans, the european parliament, cannot remain silent. we must clearly support those who want to live in freedom and democracy. and these are the citizens of sudan. the military and its leaders, led by general abdal fattah burhan, must be condemned for not respecting the will of the sudanese people and for acting so harshly against their fellow citizens. as you know, since 2019, when the dictator umar al-bashir was overthrown, this country has been gradually moving towards early, extraordinary, but hugely important elections, which were supposed to take place in 2023. the problems we've seen in sudan since last october unfortunately reduce the chances of this important election taking place. we are making it clear to the current leadership of sudan that we insist that democratic elections be held in sudan and that the sudanese people choose who will lead this country, who will represent them. we are clearly saying that the actions of general abdal fattah burhan's army are illegal, illegitimate and we reject them. we also make it clear that if the military continues to behave like this, it will lose the financial support that the european union provides to this country. please support this resolution in the vote tomorrow.
writer. (beginning of speech without microphone) ... the army and civilian political leaders have shared power since august 2019. however, general abdel fattah abdelrahman al-burhan broke the power-sharing agreement when he staged a military coup in october 2021. a state of emergency was declared, the military-civilian transitional council was dissolved and the civilian government was sacked, while prime minister abdalla hamdok was arrested along with his ministerial colleagues. following the resignation of hamdok, peaceful protests were organized against the military rule, which in turn responded with extreme violence. according to the european external action service, at least 70 people have been executed since the military coup in october 2021. the sexual violence against women and girls by the security forces is particularly abhorrent. people continue to risk their lives every day for basic human rights, freedom of assembly, democracy and a life free from political oppression and corruption - rights we take for granted in europe. our joint resolution in the european parliament condemns the relentless violence of the military against the civilian population, attacks on hospitals, arrests of political activists and journalists and the closure of the internet. this must end immediately. impunity in sudan must be stopped and the eu must work with its partners to bring the perpetrators to justice. the commission and the member states must make full use of the eu sanctions mechanism to target the military leaders responsible in sudan. the eu must introduce a ban on the sale of security equipment and surveillance technology to sudan. i strongly urge the eu high representative for foreign affairs to ensure that the union's migration policy does not undermine the union's support for human rights. there is a risk that eu and member states' cooperation with sudan in the area of migration could be used to persecute journalists. it is in the interest of the eu and its member states to promote democratic, sustainable development in sudan. it's time we get down to business.
author. madam president, in april 2019, the popular movement overthrew the dictatorship of omar al-bashir, who had been in power since the 1989 military coup. this democratic transition was interrupted on 25 october 2021, when armed men took the prime minister as well as ministers and all civilian members of the sovereignty council hostage. general abdel fatah al-burhan, the instigator of this coup, announced the dissolution of the transitional bodies and declared a state of emergency on the same day. since the military coup we have seen massive protests in sudan, particularly by women and young people, who continue to express their discontent with the coup. these demonstrations were followed by arrests of civilians, the usurpation of political rights and violence against demonstrators. so far, at least 62 civilians have been killed. on 3 january 2022, abdalla hamdok, then prime minister, resigned citing a failure to achieve political consensus on his deal and repeated violations by the military. the coup has already been condemned by the african union and the united nations. we too must condemn this coup in the strongest possible terms. not just formally, as has already been done by the european union and the member states, but by providing support in all international bodies to help sudanese people restore democracy, eliminate poverty and build a prosperous society. we must also show our full solidarity with the popular mobilizations taking place in sudan, demanding an end to the coup and fighting for social progress, democracy and against the return of dictatorship. we also ask that european union aid be given in the form of grants and not loans. we call on member states to meet the targets in development aid and to participate in the food aid programme.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the consequences for europe would be grave if sudan were to fall into chaos. sudan borders libya and egypt, which is the gateway of africa to europe. we would be witnessing a terrible development of illegal migration, trafficking in persons and arms, and it is therefore in the interest of the european union, as it is in the interest of the great powers, that there should be a stabilization of the political situation in sudan. and that is why all the parties involved, from civil society to the elite and the military, must find a solution that will allow this country to get back on the path to a democratic solution, which will then come with the 2023 elections. i am personally against the economic sanctions announced by the world bank, through its president david malpass, who wants to block economic aid to sudan: 3 billion dollars, the announcement made in november 2021 by the biden administration to block 700 million dollars in favor of this country and also what is written in the resolution that is proposed to us by our colleagues in parliament, where they make the aid of the european union conditional on the found stability, because this aid is intended for the civilian population, it is intended for the desperate, for the many who suffer daily, are certainly not benefits for the elite. we risk chaos if we make aid conditional on political stability. it is necessary, i repeat, that all the actors, from the elite to civil society to the military, come to the same table to find a solution that will bring about a new order of things. we have read the news from a few days ago, when the us special envoy for the horn of africa, david satterfield, will be in khartoum in the next few days to try to find a democratic way forward and to meet with the military. we know that washington has good relations with the military government, partly because the military has guaranteed the abraham accords with israel. we look with great interest and sympathy to the activities of the envoy for the horn of africa, david satterfield, and we hope that these meetings will lead to a new agreement between civil society and the military to find a new government for this country.
and now, at my very first plenary session, which i am privileged to chair, i am pleased to invite my austrian colleague hannes heide to the podium on behalf of the s&d.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, the 2019 revolution, which ended in sudan with the dictatorship of omar al-bashir, was led by women. the kandaka, they called them. the defense of democracy, after the coup d'état of october 25, 2021, is also led by women, and the military is using sexual violence and rape as a massive weapon of repression of the population. just last month, in the context of the protests, the government's anti-violence unit reported nine cases of gang rape. one of the victims was ten years old and was raped by ten men dressed as military men next to the presidential palace. therefore, any step in favour of strengthening the military sector is a step in favour of increasing violence. that is why we must strengthen all dialogue for a democratic transition led by civil society. we must stand with the efforts of the united nations, we must impose sanctions and we must call for accountability in human rights. and in this accountability we cannot forget those who are suffering the laceration, the violation of their rights, such as the women in sudan. too many years of using violence as a weapon of war and too much impunity in this country.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. following the overthrow of president omar al-bashir's thirty-year dictatorship in 2019, the major challenge for political stability in sudan has been maintaining cooperation between the military and civilians. last year, political strife intensified, and in october, the military staged a coup. the traditional disputes between the politically dominant arab north and the marginalized, ethnically diverse south, as well as the difficult economic situation, were exploited. faced with a political impasse following the rejection of a deal with the military by the political forces and the inability to form a government, prime minister abdalla hamdok announced his resignation. the resignation of the prime minister came after another clash between security forces and protesters protesting against the military authorities. tens of thousands of people have been killed and hundreds injured in protests in khartoum and other cities. the social situation is therefore explosive, and the demonstrations, despite the brutal repression, do not stop. the un has launched a mediation initiative that will lead to a roundtable. however, the initiative has divided sudan's opposition. strong support is therefore needed for dialogue between the parties to the conflict.
madam president, congratulations on your election. in sudan, by 2022, 30 percent of the population will need humanitarian assistance. that's 14 million women, men and children. 3 million men, women and children are internally displaced people, mainly from darfur, but also externally from conflicts in neighbouring countries. yet sudan has been a beacon of hope for democracy in the region. a young, educated, engaged, peaceful civil society in 2018 brought an end to mr. al-bashir's bloody dictatorship that lasted for over thirty years. but the generals, backed by the undemocratic foreign powers like egypt, saudi arabia, the united arab emirates and russia, have ended this transition, this hope. despite the brutal repression, young people continue to demonstrate for their rights and their dreams. the response of the generals is not only unacceptable but dangerous, for it risks turning this peaceful opposition into violent movements. it would be a tragedy, first of all for the sudanese, it would be a tragedy for the region, it would be a tragedy for democracy. on the one hand, we must demand humanitarian aid for these populations who are now in danger. we must demand in all multilateral fora that the foreign forces with which we have relations cease to intervene and support this military regime. and we need independent investigations into the human rights violations that are taking place in sudan today.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! at least 71 people have been killed and more than 2,000 injured in sudan since the coup d'état on 25 october 2021. i believe that the european union and the international community should exert strong diplomatic pressure and call on the sudanese authorities to respect freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, but above all to stop the violence. let us not forget the impact of the ongoing political and economic crisis on the lives of the citizens, the many migrants in this country. it is estimated that by 2022, more than 14 million people, or almost one in three people in the country, will need humanitarian assistance. and that number will continue to grow. there are about 1.2 million migrants in sudan. in the camps, there is an urgent need for assistance to meet basic needs, including food, water, shelter, sanitation. this calls for our commitment to both peace and stability in sudan and to providing basic livelihoods for those most affected by the country's prolonged political and economic crisis. and i also agree that the democratic world should hold these crimes accountable, just as it should hold accountable the other crimes against the yazidi and the christians in iraq.
member of the commission. – madam president, the european union has strongly supported sudan’s democratic transition from the onset, through both our political engagement as well as our economic support. we have vigorously condemned the 25 october military coup, the ensuing violence and the serious human rights violations by the military since then. so far, more than 70 protesters have died, while hundreds have been injured and arbitrarily detained. the demand by the majority of the sudanese people not to return to military rule should be answered by political propositions and not by brutal use of force. the intimidation and the killings of protesters are totally unacceptable and are the wrong answer to the sudanese people’s demand for freedom and democracy. we call upon the military authorities to make their utmost efforts to de-escalate tensions. avoiding further loss of life is of the essence. the european union also expressed worry about the detention of journalists. freedom of expression, access to information and the ability to communicate are part of basic freedoms and universal human rights. it is essential that sudanese citizens are able to exercise freedom of association, including the right to peacefully protest. the eu strongly condemns the use of sexual and gender-based violence as a weapon to drive women away from demonstrations and to silence their voices. we call on the sudanese authorities to fully investigate this and all other forms of violence and bring the perpetrators to justice. we will keep monitoring developments in sudan, holding the authorities to account when they do not uphold fundamental rights. in this regard, the un high commissioner’s designation of adama dieng as an expert on human rights in sudan is key. we would also like to highlight the high degree of intercommunal violence still going on in darfur, which is very worrying. lastly, we are also engaging with the ongoing un initiative to find a way out of the crisis and we are ready to play a larger role in this process if needed. the european union has supported the democratic aspirations of the sudanese people from the start, and we will do so in the future with all means at its disposal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 20 january 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. it is clear that sudan is still trying to find its way since the fall of the regime of omar al bashir in 2019. he has yet to be tried by the international criminal court. but should we now call out general abdel fattah al-burhan, following his coup d'état last october? firstly, the sudanese political opposition is made up of heterogeneous elements, which are difficult for us to understand. moreover, any destabilisation of sudan would necessarily result in an explosion of migration, which europe as a whole would have to bear the brunt of. and in this regard, the rate of return of sudanese migrants present in europe was only 7 percent in 2020... finally, such a crisis would add to the ills of the entire region, which is caught between the chaos in somalia, the civil war in ethiopia and the perversions of the eritrean dictatorship, which, as some ngos admit, fuel the global trafficking of human beings. in short, sudan may well be the spark that is too much in the powder keg of the horn of africa.
in writing. a swift and peaceful resolution of the crisis in sudan and the stabilisation of the country are urgently in europe's interest. the uncertain security situation threatens the stability not only of sudan but of the entire region. in a tense atmosphere caused by the civil war in ethiopia, the union needs regional allies to be able to act effectively to create security. besides the political crisis, the situation of refugees is also worrying. sudan, with a population of 43 million, hosts more than one million external refugees and another 3 million internally displaced persons. during the conflict in northern ethiopia, more than 60,000 ethiopian refugees arrived in sudan. the provision of food to these masses has already strained sudan's resources to the limit, and the involvement of international organisations, including the world food programme, is crucial and the support of the union is indispensable in this regard. the eu must support peaceful dialogue within sudan as well as at regional level. the regional tensions caused by the great ethiopian renaissance dam are putting egypt, sudan and ethiopia's relations to a severe test. the escalation of a potential conflict would have unforeseeable consequences, which can only be avoided by bringing the parties involved to the negotiating table. we therefore expect the union's external policy to be prudent and to cooperate more closely with regional partners.
in writing. following the military coup d'état on 25 october 2021, violence against the civilian population has continued to increase. girls and women are subjected to sexual violence on a daily basis, as this form of violence remains unpunished in sudan. the situation is escalating every day. the rights of migrants, who are mostly from ethiopia, are also being violated. in early december 2021, a refugee camp near kereneik was attacked. the attack left 88 people dead. unhcr predicts that more than 6.2 million people will need humanitarian assistance next year. prime minister hamdok's demise has also led to many questions and challenges regarding democracy. the resolution condemns all acts of violence against peaceful protesters, activists, journalists and all others peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression. it was also stressed that the military regime uses eu cooperation on migration to justify its increased control over the population. we expect the security services and other armed groups to immediately cease their use of violence against the civilian population. we call on sudan's military leaders to commit to democratic change in the country.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. the women's hell is on. this hell has its real victims, its real suffering and its real drama for millions of women. simone veil, quoted many times today, said that these are the women we meet every day, not knowing anything about their dramas and their despair. we're the second largest democracy in the world. we are a community that in many ways leads the world in terms of progress, in terms of human rights. but today in the european union in 2022, half of our society is not equal. poles, maltese women still don't have the same rights as french, swedish or belgian women. it's a great injustice, but it's also a great responsibility. i would like to say that i am really proud that a woman has become president of the european parliament. today, we have a woman presiding over this meeting, the commissioner. but it's also a big commitment. commissioner, madam president, this is a great commitment to millions of our grandmothers, mothers, daughters, colleagues, friends. it's a big responsibility. you have a chance to change that. i count on it very much and i think millions of europeans count on it. don't let them down.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! keywords: depopulation, reproductive health very nice and beautifully packaged ideology of engineering the new man, ideology of civilization of death. what are the facts? europe is becoming depopulated, fewer and fewer europeans are being born. the european parliament is therefore, for the second day running, the scene of a battle between the civilization of death and the civilization of life. where does this lead? today, all of europe's efforts are directed towards solutions that will bring more and more people here with the blue card and many other incentives. why would you do that? because we're short of hands to do the work. and what is this effect, what is this result? you answer for yourself. why are there no good solutions, why are there no good practices to support families to have children? why would you do that? answer that question today. the european union has grown up condemning this kind of system and this kind of thinking. why is the tragedy of abortion for women being left out of the debate today? why would you do that? why don't they talk about post-abortion syndrome, the depression that women go through after surgery? why is there no helping hand before the decision and after the decision? why is she alone with this so much? without all of you here preaching these theories, it suffers. why does everyone leave women and leave them alone? can the european commission provide us with data on this?
ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs daniel bouda and isabel carvalho for the hard work and the compromises made on the report and the recommendations of the anit committee. the humane treatment of animals during transport is of mutual interest to farmers, consumers and the entire food chain. the committee of inquiry found that the european union has some of the highest animal welfare standards in the world, but these rules are not always respected. the conditions and controls for the transport of agricultural animals need to be improved. we have also heard calls for a total ban on the transport of live animals in europe and to third countries, and for a substantial reduction in the time it takes to transport animals. we must be aware that such a ban would threaten the financial survival of our farmers and would lead to the closure of a large number of small farms. let us recall the importance of the livestock sector to the european economy. livestock account for almost half of all agricultural activity. it provides some 4 million jobs and generates output worth €168 billion a year. we do not want to close farms in regions where life is already difficult, such as the mountainous and remote regions. i believe that reducing transport times is closely linked to investments in improving infrastructure and building a system of local slaughterhouses close to livestock farms. we, the epp group, therefore stand firmly behind european livestock farmers and believe that animal transport should continue, while respecting the legislation and improving standards of animal welfare during transport.
madam president, may i turn to you and say that i am particularly pleased to see you in this seat and congratulate you on your election and re-election. i may be saying this in a slightly exaggerated tone, but i think it is necessary to recall this. we are at a particular moment in human thought. we're at a new crossroads, perhaps as important as the enlightenment or the renaissance. we have a new thought. we must have a new humanistic thinking towards the living, towards nature. our relationship with animals has evolved, our relationship with animals must evolve. it must be a break with the utilitarian view that we have had for centuries, that of the absolute domination of man over nature and over animals. this world is no longer ours. millions of citizens take it for granted that animals are living beings who suffer and must be respected as such. so i turn to you, colleagues, let us not let this wind of history blow by. it must also be blown on our european parliament. we must change the laws and i beg you, let us stop pitting the rights of one against the rights of the other. let's stop saying that if we improve the suffering, the condition of animals, we will harm livestock. no, we can do both. we have to do both. and yes, we have to take time mr. buda you are right time of transitions, we have to help. but what is killing livestock farming in europe today? it is competition, it is agro-industry, it is the fact that we import meat under free trade agreements, raised under conditions that have nothing to do with our own. if we really want to defend the european agricultural model, let us do it together and not against each other.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after years of complaints, petitions and complaints from citizens, all this great work is put in black and white in the final report of the committee of inquiry of this parliament. and the citizens were right: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. you have a nightmare. why are we doing this? producing more, transporting more, selling more, killing more, eating more and throwing away more. a sick and out of control system, which is proving more and more every day to be a huge danger to everyone, to the animals of course, who are exploited to the extreme, but also to the whole planet, to the climate, to our health and to the small farmers. that is why the recommendations we are voting on today must send a clear and strong message to the european commission: transport rules must ensure that animals are genuinely protected. but we have to go further: i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative.
madam president, the aim of this committee was to investigate non-compliance and ensure best practice in animal transport. it’s vital that we focus on improving the standards of those who are non-compliant rather than ensuring ever higher standards for those who are doing their best to comply. we saw examples of non-compliance that none of us could be proud of, and it’s something we need to address more. i believe that the use of technologies such as gps tracking, temperature monitoring, and also things like priority lanes and the many other measures that were put in place, will do much to address these issues. i would like to give particular recognition to daniel buda for his efforts in building consensus throughout the committee, and recognising the challenges and how we could address them through our work. experts who have reported to the committee recognise the particularly high standards in ireland. however, i’m concerned that two of the alternative proposals tabled at the last minute will undermine those very good standards. in particular, the idea of tying farmers’ hands so that their only option is to move calves to holding centres at five weeks of age makes no sense. this is unworkable and not thought out. it will do more to harm animal welfare and cause these problems, and cause stress to animals, farmers and hauliers alike. you have to remember that these people have a love of the industry they’re involved in. they’re proud of the work to do, and they love and care for the animals they work with. they want standards in this as much as anyone else, and they don’t want people bringing their name down. the original compromises that were put forward by the committee were sensible and based on good science. farmers are relying on us to get this right because they’ll be the ones that will deal with the consequences. the people who make suggestions and proposals and then expect others to deliver them, where will they be when their proposals won’t work correctly? so i ask you to stick to the science and recognise the good proposals that were put forward by the committee and, by doing so, we can ensure that we will have the best practice for the industry going forward.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. why did we even set up a committee of inquiry into animal transport here in the house? because the scandals were crying out loud, because there was no longer any cover-up of what was happening here in europe, and because you knew you needed a committee, a special place to take care of animal welfare. there have been persistent breaches in the member states. it was looked away, hidden away, and above all, there was no infringement procedure. and one thing was clear: the will to set up a committee of inquiry was clear. this issue must not be discussed in the agri committee - a committee which may not be balanced in its conclusions - but it must be discussed on neutral ground, in a committee of inquiry. we were asked to produce a report - a hard-hitting report - and to make recommendations. and here i must say that i am not only angry, but also angry at the way in which certain colleagues have thought they should make the anit committee of inquiry into a second agricultural committee. it is not the task of the anit committee of inquiry to weigh the balance how will this possibly be possible with farmers later? , but it is its task to shed light on the situation of animals. our task is to make a good recommendation to the commission. the commission will then draw up papers and then the balancing takes place. who at the beginning already and mr. buda, there i look especially at you; you have reopened the debate here today by saying: 'yes, but it must not get too bad for the farmers'. anyone who enters the race with an alleged balance, with an alleged 'we are doing everything in balance, we are doing everything in balance', is weakly aware. because the balance and the balance, that one should be made later in a trilogy, but not in the committee of inquiry. that's why i'm actually really upset about how this went down. we must recognize that there are gross violations here. that's why we have the committee of inquiry. and i have a final request to you, commissioner: that no matter what the outcome of the votes today, you take note of the many good things that have been discussed in the committee, the many good hearings, and incorporate them into your work.
madam president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues. today is a historic day: the journey that we in the centre party have been fighting for too long is coming to an end today after two years of work. finally, the european parliament is speaking out against the unsustainable transport of animals across europe and the hellish journeys we are putting our animals through. today we are adopting a number of strong recommendations to highlight and set the tone for how transport in the future must be improved. i have a few examples: we want to see tougher penalties for those member states which ignore eu legislation on sustainable animal transport; there should be penalties for breaking these rules. we want to see stricter rules, time limits and stricter requirements for sea transport, land transport within the eu and exports, i.e. animal transport of animals to third countries. we need more science and less gut feeling about animal transport. we need stricter scientific recommendations and research in this area, and we need stricter protection for the most vulnerable and the smallest animals. but we in the centre party and renew europe are not satisfied with this alone. we will not be satisfied with making recommendations, but will be a thorn in the side of the commission and the eu institutions until we see the right action. we cannot allow countries to get away with it and we cannot allow animals to be treated badly. we will not rest until the threat of antibiotic resistance is eliminated, until animal welfare is improved throughout the eu and until all animals are transported safely.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, products should be transported, not live animals. that's what we say today, when we know that about 1.6 billion live animals are shipped every year, mostly for slaughter. until we have new legislation, of course, we must at least enforce existing legislation that is actually improving the lives of animals. please, this is not an ideology, this is the responsibility of a man who has a responsibility for every living thing, creature and therefore animals. i think that's a conservative approach, but our responsibility is also to the farmers' conditions. they are the breadwinners of our nations, the breadwinners of this continent. we need to find a really balanced solution for farmers, their economic conditions and the welfare of the animals. i thank the commissioner for agreeing to cooperate and i thank in particular daniel bud and his colleagues for a report which really seeks this balanced approach to the solution. personally, i think the best solution is to reduce the transport of animals, the transport time and, conversely, increase the transport of products. the main objective is therefore to improve the living conditions of animals. the focus on the availability of slaughterhouses is a condition for this change. slaughtering and processing meat close to the farming area contributes to animal welfare, to the economic profit of farmers and also reduces gas emissions. that is why this is very important and i welcome the fact that this report emphasises the need for financial support for new slaughterhouses, or mobile slaughterhouses. i therefore strongly support this call for the commission and the member states to introduce funding to ensure the economic viability of local slaughterhouses and to improve the living conditions of animals.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a regulation on the protection of animals during transport. the existing european legislation must respond to the challenges facing this growing sector, but must strike a balance and protect our farmers. in addition to the fact that numerous studies have confirmed that animal welfare affects the quality of meat, it should be stressed that animals are transported for a number of reasons other than slaughter, including trade, fattening, breeding, breeding, competitions and exhibitions. many studies have been published on the link between disease outbreaks and animal transport. for example, in transported cattle, especially if the transport took a long time, there are significant problems and economic losses due to the outbreak of the so-called transport fever. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the transport of animals to third countries with lower standards and fewer control options than the european union is a particular problem. for this reason, it is essential to shorten supply chains, build and renew the necessary infrastructure, strengthen legislation and ensure its consistent application and harmonise binding standards for vehicles and vessels transporting live animals. i am of course in favour of a high-quality legislative framework whose implementation will guarantee animal welfare, avoid unfair competition and improve product quality. our humanity, in fact, and it's evident in all our speeches, and even my colleague bud can't be reduced to 90 seconds of horror when we see a report on animal cruelty on television. so i think we're all going in the right direction together.
i have to say, madam president, we've all seen it before: we see an animal transport, we look in and we suffer with it. transport of animals, especially long-distance transport, causes extreme animal suffering - everyone knows this, and the vast majority of citizens want to put an end to it. and the time has come to do so. the special committee has spent 18 months hearing from experts about the suffering these animals are subjected to during transport: there is no longer any reasonable reason not to drastically improve the conditions of transport. this means that the transport time for animals must be as short as possible and adapted to the animals. this must apply to all modes of transport without exception. no transport of pregnant and unweaned animals. the transport of animals to third countries is prohibited, loopholes must be closed. it must be possible to make live animal transport the exception rather than the rule as soon as possible. instead, transport the meat! we have a responsibility to the animals: let us put an end to this suffering and vote for the necessary improvements! i will definitely do it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are serious shortcomings in the transport of animals. it will be reflected in the work of the committee and in this report. in particular, there are two major problems, one of which is the regulation on the transport of animals, which was introduced over 15 years ago. the world has changed since then. we've got some new research coming in. the legislation needs to be updated, in particular to take better account of the species, size, age, feeding needs, watering, temperature of the animals. the legislation must therefore be reformed. the second major problem is that member states do not appear to be exercising adequate or very weak controls on the implementation of legislation. it is, of course, a matter of animal welfare, but it is also an unfair competition, because some do not follow the rules. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of animals during transport. there's about 10 billion euros in cash in circulation. i mean, financially, it's a big deal. it also appears that the vehicles used for transport and their requirements need to be revised. there are also major differences between member states in the requirements for vehicles, and ships, for example, are generally not designed to transport animals. the report also makes it clear that although eu law also applies to transport going outside the eu, in practice there is no control at all. i therefore support the line that we should not accept animals being transported from the eu in poor conditions, but rather that we should transport meat and genetic material instead of live animals.
madam president, it is entirely right to discuss animal welfare with competent authorities, businesses, civil society, scientists and most importantly our farmers. farmers are on the front line of many core issues we face today, from climate change to animal welfare. we must not lose sight of the fact that this is a livelihood for millions of people to which farmers are deeply and emotionally committed. eu animal welfare legislation is one of the most advanced in the world, with some of the highest standards. however, we cannot hide from the fact that they are not implemented adequately in some member states. i fully support practical steps in improving animal welfare standards in europe, and for the most part, this motion contains many positive aspects in that regard. ireland has gone above and beyond eu regulations in ensuring animal welfare during transport, and we stand as one of the leaders in europe. yet, with the disadvantage of our geographical location as an island in the north-west of europe, some of the proposals brought forward today would effectively deal a hammer blow to thousands of our farmers. this is not acceptable. also, some proposals would bring with them negative effects for animals. it’s all well and good making proposals, but if the implementation is not possible, and certainly they are not for some proposals, it is both the animals and our farmers that will suffer. this is particularly true for irish farmers – who having made trojan efforts to be leaders in this area – will be disproportionately affected by its negative effect. such an outcome cannot be countenanced.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they're living creatures. it's not an ideological question, it's not a right-wing or left-wing question. in my opinion, the economic arguments do not hold up in the debate about how to treat live animals. that, in my opinion, is a shameful argument. we should do everything we can to put moral rules into written law. commissioner, it is your responsibility to make sure that the moral high ground is not hidden behind the economic interests of farmers and other economic groups. how do we justify the suffering that the transport of live animals brings today? how do we want to relationalize it? i'm very sorry to hear that nothing is happening here. i've been studying live animals for years. i've been working on animal suffering for years, and i have to say that what's happening in transportation in europe is really disgraceful. i shall therefore vote in favour of the amendments which are intended to tighten up the report, which in my view is too compromise-y and too relativizing of what is really happening. and i ask you, commissioner, to incorporate as much of that as possible into the current legislation. let's set a clear deadline for the transport of animals! we must restrict exports of live animals to third countries and we must restrict exports of small animals and young animals!
madam president, welfare cannot be an empty concept. we have already made significant progress, but more needs to be done and i am very pleased that the commissioner sees it that way, and i thank my colleague mr daniel bud for his work on this report. i quote from the recommendation: 'all conditions necessary to ensure the welfare of animals during transport must be ensured at all times.' i agree with that, but i would add that the transport of live animals should really be kept to a minimum. it's not an illusion. when you see the hundreds of millions of live animals being prepared for long distances every year within the member states of the european union to third countries where they are no longer guaranteed almost anything, these images really break your heart. we must appeal to farmers, to hauliers and their associations that we cannot afford to slacken our efforts to achieve these good living conditions. we also need to make available to farmers, of course, things like slaughterhouses, veterinary care. we need a good plan of action to reduce the need for transportation. of course, transporting mostly dead animals, or their meat. we certainly need much better information exchange between member states. ensure frequency of feeding during transport, length of rest, temperature, etc. these are all the challenges we face. there is simply too much that we owe to animals, and it is our duty to act and finally find a balanced solution for farmers, transporters, consumers and, of course, for animals.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i will begin my closing remarks as i opened this debate. animal welfare is a priority in the eu’s farm to fork strategy. it is an important part of my mandate, and it is a personal priority for myself. rest assured that we will remain fully committed to improving the current legislative framework. i carefully listened to each of your interventions, and i have taken note of your concerns. i will address as many as i can. mr mortler and ms wiśniewska – i apologise for the pronunciation – mentioned the importance of implementation of existing rules, and i totally agree with you. ms avram said that we need to review the legislation and used the words: ‘we need to find the right balance’. mr kelleher and mr waitz, we are collectively trying to bring animal welfare to the forefront of our priorities. i have already assured you of that and i totally agree we need to base our decisions on science, taking everything into account. a number of meps, mr dorfmann, ms aguilera, mr christensen and mr wiezik spoke about exactly the same thing: the need for implementation of science and that many problems of the current legislation concern implementation. and ms conte, i totally agree with you that we need a common eu database to record the results of official controls. ms metz, we are not waiting for 2023 to tackle some of the points that you have highlighted. we are already working on measures to be adopted early this year and i agree with you, the issues are urgent. mr zoido álvarez mentioned the need for legislation to proceed on the basis of evidence and knowledge and thorough impact assessments as those that are distributed across society, the economy and the environment. and then ms guteland, i agree with you on the need for checks and controls. mr hojsík spoke of the need to change. i said this already in my introductory remarks, and i cannot but mention mr durand, who said ‘the winds of change’. we can find a balance reflecting clear public demand to improve the quality of life for animals, gathering knowledge on all the key issues and doing it in the right way. ms hazekamp spoke of the need for a review of the animal transport regulation, and i just want to say that the review of that regulation will cover all relevant species, will take vulnerable animals into account – including unweaned calves as well as pregnant animals, and we will take the recommendations very seriously in our review. mr waitz, i just want to say that we are working on new legislation expected to be adopted in mid-2022 to harmonise and strengthen the inspections of livestock vessels, including the use of an eu database, and it will also cover, as i have said, some of the recommendations tabled by the anit committee, such as teams of inspectors. delegated acts on animal transport by sea will already come to the european parliament during this year. and mr markey, i totally agree with you on the use of technology, the development and the use of digital tools to facilitate enforcement. and last but not least, ms wiesner on auditing the member states regarding livestock transport: our audit plans foresee the auditing of several member states with regards to transport of livestock vessels. these audits will examine controls on livestock vessels, inspection and the appropriateness of enforcement action when non-compliance is detected, and authorisation of sea transporters. i have tried to cover as many of the points as possible, and i will just say in conclusion that i want to stress again two issues. first, the importance that this commission attaches to animal welfare. and second, the great responsibility we feel towards upholding the welfare of animals, as well as towards our farmers, our citizens and society in general. we are fully aware of the complexities of transporting live animals, particularly to non-eu countries, which many of you mentioned. for this reason, it’s particularly important that we build robust legislation that protects animals, prevents suffering, but is also easy to implement and enforce, and that is based on the latest scientific advice and on the outcomes of our consultation activities. so as we work towards our legislative proposal in 2023, we will continue to work on enforcing the current legislation, with particular emphasis on the issues that have been raised and have been found to be problematic in the transport of live animals, and that the anit committee has highlighted in its thorough and lengthy investigations. the work foreseen during this legislative revision is a worthy investment in a more sustainable future for our society and i believe we will meet the demands that european citizens have in ensuring a better life for animals. i am convinced that the european parliament shares this view, as the anit committee’s excellent work demonstrates, and is ready to support our efforts to deliver a legislative revision for the future. i apologise, madam president, for taking twice the time that i was allotted, but there were over 50 interventions and i believe that our role here is to listen and to answer as many as possible of the interventions of the honourable members of the european parliament.
in writing. every year, millions of animals are transported over long distances between member states and to third countries for breeding or slaughter. long journeys are a source of great stress and suffering for farm animals. eu rules on the protection and welfare of animals during transport are already in place. however, there is evidence of serious and systematic infringements of regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the transport of live animals during transport within the union and to third countries. to better protect animals, it is therefore necessary to enforce existing laws more effectively and to introduce new ones that introduce penalties and shorten the journey time. recall that article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states: '[t]o formulate and implement policies ... the union and the member states shall take full account of the welfare requirements of animals as sentient beings. in its 'from the field to the table' strategy for a fair, healthy and environmentally friendly food system, the commission has highlighted the urgent need to improve animal welfare. to this end, animal welfare rules, including those concerning the transport and slaughter of animals, should be reviewed and adapted to the latest scientific evidence, taking into account the interests of small and medium-sized livestock farms.
in writing. experts are warning: the transport time is very long, the animals are transported in terrible conditions, they have no access not only to food but also to water, they travel in huge crowds and in high temperatures. the current regulations do not solve the problem. even for small animals such as calves, lambs, piglets and foals, the rules require that they be rested after 9 hours of road transport and allow the animals to continue to be transported for another 9 hours. pigs and domestic animals with missing feet may be transported by road for up to 24 hours without interruption. even pregnant females may be transported in this way unless they are at 90% or more of their expected gestation period. the recommendations made by the anit committee are unfortunately not enough. it was proposed to limit the transport time of animals to 8 hours and only to animals transported to slaughter. finally, there was no restriction on maritime transport in the text. i supported a dozen amendments calling for a reduction in travel time to two hours, a ban on the transport of live animals to third countries and better protection for animals particularly vulnerable to stress and health problems, including young and pregnant animals. our amendments to the journey time were to include the loading and unloading of animals, often for several hours. the ep rejected the amendments. she won the meat party.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of youth policy. the economic slowdown has had a painful impact on the job prospects of young people, especially those who are taking their first steps into the labour market. restrictions on freedom of movement and social life, exacerbations and feelings of insecurity have even led to mental health problems, as many speakers have already said today. long-term isolation and distance learning have affected all levels of education, both at the undergraduate level and especially in primary and upper secondary schools. the fight against these consequences must be one of the priorities, as reflected in the actions of the european commission, which has established 2022 as the european year of youth. invest in young people, fight for their inclusion in the labour market, including through paid traineeships and training. action for young people in particularly difficult situations, i.e. young people with disabilities, young people from large families and young people from rural areas, must be a priority. young people are much more likely to work in a gray area or to be completely out of the labour market. the lockdown generation needs our support.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. in poland, the welfare of farm animals is preserved. the existing regulations are sufficient and we are constantly improving the level of welfare. the implementation report on the welfare of animals on farms contains 55 conclusions and recommendations, some of which i consider to be justified. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's animal welfare legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's animal welfare legislation. secondly, the european commission should invest in the welfare of livestock farmers. thirdly, the call for the european union to provide financial resources and a reasonable time horizon for farmers in the event of any changes to the rules on animal husbandry. fourthly, the need to carry out a scientific assessment and to take account of the consumer's purchasing power when introducing legislative changes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare labelling system is compliant with the animal welfare rules. sixth, call for short supply chains in the food sector and based on locally produced food. seventh, i do not support paragraph 17 of the report on parliament's support for the european citizens' initiative 'no more caging' which refers to the total abolition of the keeping and rearing of animals in cages.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all, i would like to thank you for this informative discussion. i have listened carefully to all your remarks. i have taken notes in response to many of your concerns. i have listened to your proposals. it’s impossible to refer to all the comments made, but i just want to highlight some of the points made, because i think it’s important that we pick up on these. first of all, mep mortler, i spoke already at the very beginning of the need for a level playing field. mep šojdrová, i just wanted to say that we will be presenting our revised legislation by the end of 2023, and the efsa scientific opinions will be finalised by early 2023. now, several of you mentioned the issue to do with the end—of—cage age. i just wanted to tell you here that we will be supporting farmers by offering training and relevant information and urge the member states and stakeholders to do so as well. member states, as you know, are encouraged to use the possibilities provided by the cap to increase their support for animal welfare improvements. mep avram, we will weigh all the available options to ensure that our policy objectives are not defeated by increased imports of products obtained with lower animal welfare standards. in fact, several members mentioned this. we will be supporting farmers so that they are not at a disadvantage. mep cioloş, you also pointed this out, and the need for us to support farmers financially, and not only that, and i totally agree. mep mortler, on tail docking, this is done because animal welfare is not respected by current farming conditions. pigs with entire tails come from farms where there are good welfare conditions. this is not a question simply of market demands, as has been said. mep hazekamp, i can reassure you that our review of the legislation will be ambitious. it will be far—reaching and it will broaden the scope to make enforcement easier. as you rightly said, and other meps have also pointed out, it needs to be aligned and we need to look at the scientific evidence. mep giarrusso, the fitness check of current legislation detected vagueness, in fact, of certain provisions in eu legislation dating from more than 20 years ago, and the commission will consider this problem in reforming and updating the animal welfare acquis. a lot of points have been raised, and we will be taking them on board. i just want to share with you that the discussion today on the report clearly highlights the importance the commission and i personally – as well as you yourselves, as the european parliament – attach to animal welfare, and that we have a high level of responsibility towards the animals, the farmers and eu society. it is important that all our revised legislation serves our sustainability goals. in the meantime, let me just state very clearly: we will continue to enforce current legislation, particularly on issues that have proved problematic such as animal transport and prevention of the routine tail docking of pigs. i’m very much looking forward to presenting our proposal for revision of the legislation by the end of 2023. i know it is an ambitious undertaking, but i believe it is also a worthwhile investment in the future because this is not about our future now, but the future of our society, the future of our planet. i know that all of you in this house share that sentiment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 february 2022. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. animal health and welfare are of key importance to public health, food security and the safety of the food we consume. good animal health status on the farm means less drugs and antibiotics, a lower environmental footprint from livestock farming, a higher quality end product and ultimately what we all strive for better overall welfare of farm animals. i therefore welcome the ep resolution which encourages further improvement of eu legislation on animal welfare, in line with scientific and technical progress in animal husbandry practices and according to the specific needs of each animal species. at the same time, animal welfare must be combined with a sustainable economic approach that ensures a clear return on investment and higher production costs, and with an appropriate transition period for livestock farmers to adapt their holdings to the higher standards. a system of financial incentives for livestock farmers is needed to increase their motivation to invest in improving livestock practices. for example, under the cap, member states may provide in their national strategic plans for dedicated animal welfare ecosystems, support through investment and training for innovation and improvement of farming systems.
in writing. the agri report on animal welfare on farms does not even touch on the problems that it was intended to address. it ignores the issue of animal suffering caused by poor implementation and non-enforcement of eu rules. it focuses instead on protecting the interests, especially the financial interests, of breeders. this is contrary to the objectives of the european green deal, the 'field to fork' strategy and the approach promoted by the ec to link human health with animal health and the state of the environment. that is why i supported the alternative resolution, drawn up by a bipartisan group on the basis of the opinion of the envi committee. the resolution proposes to review current eu legislation on animal welfare in the light of the latest scientific knowledge. animal welfare rules on holdings should be adapted to the needs of the individual animal species, their diet, health, natural behaviour and environmental protection. it is also crucial that citizens and eu citizens have easy access to comprehensible information on the origin of food and that social campaigns promote food of plant origin. until now, the meat party has been a strong voice in parliament, politicians defending the status quo and business as usual, de facto on the side of the industrial lobby. it's time for the voices of reason, science, experts and experts to speak up for animals, the environment and health.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! marine renewable energy is one of the key elements of the european energy transition strategy. i therefore welcome the inclusion in the report of my suggestion, the call for investment and planning support for national projects connected directly to land by means of so-called radio links. this will allow countries that are starting to invest in renewable energy sources at sea, including poland, which i represent, to develop their infrastructure more quickly and increase the volume of energy from these sources more quickly. it is also crucial that the specific decisions on the development of marine renewable energy remain the responsibility of the member states. states should have the right to decide on matters such as spatial planning of marine areas, the granting of building permits or the granting of concessions for the generation of electricity from wind farms. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr peterson, for his substantive and constructive work, and all the other co-rapporteurs for their fruitful cooperation on the report.
madam president! i also thank the commissioner for his statement on behalf of the commission, but first of all i would like to congratulate mr morten petersen on his very good report on a matter which is really crucial for the european union for two reasons. first, we have the targets: 55 percent by 2030, and climate neutrality by 2050, along with energy security. and yet, wind is our own energy source. the potential of all european seas should therefore be fully exploited. he's glad the baltic sea was mentioned. eight countries of the union are situated on this sea. secondly, the sustainable blue economy is very important, namely marine energy, green reindustrialisation. in some sectors of the economy, energy-intensive industries cannot reduce emissions without clean hydrogen, and there certainly won't be enough clean hydrogen without offshore installations. this requires innovation and new technologies, framework programmes, money, of course - €800 billion at eu level - and equal treatment for all investors in the member states. this last aspect is very important. without transparent and non-discriminatory rules of the game for everyone, we will not fully exploit the potential of marine renewable energy and, above all, we will not reduce the energy bills of our citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we must guard against their undesirable impacts, in particular on fisheries, aquaculture, ecosystems and biodiversity. however, there is no doubt about its potential, in particular for the outermost regions. in the european union we already have innovative projects involving these technologies and portugal, my country, has been at the forefront, but we need specific action towards a full and technologically neutral integration of all energy sources and vectors. we also need to invest in scientific research and innovation to achieve our climate neutrality goals, and this is even more important in light of the escalating energy prices. the review of the renewable energy directive is also an opportunity to accelerate the development of early-stage offshore technologies and to provide clearer guidance to companies and investors. the investment incentive mechanism, with specific targets for more innovative technologies, would, for example, be an important step in this direction.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. first of all, i'd like to thank everyone for their work on this important report. i am pleased that it has addressed the expectations of meeting our ambitious climate targets by supporting the construction of more and different types of offshore wind farms. i expect the commission to provide substantial assistance in implementing these plans for countries such as poland, which have no experience of building offshore wind turbines. i believe that with more support from the european commission, we can get the 450 gigawatts needed to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. it is also important that the commission, when implementing individual hybrid projects, ensure that the inevitable rise in sea and ocean levels is taken into account in the medium and long term, so that the energy infrastructure that will be built is safe and can serve the next generations of wind turbines.
we'll start with the announcement of the results of yesterday's vote. here are the results of the vote on monday, february 14, 2022: (the president declared the results of the vote; see minutes for details)
this motion will be put to a vote after the committee vote on the motion during today's second part of the vote.
we're moving on to the debate. before we begin this very important debate for the citizens of europe and before i give the floor to the rapporteur, i would like to remind you that today is the international day for the fight against childhood cancer. the european parliament has always supported and supports children with cancer and their parents in this difficult fight. the next item is the report by véronique trillet-lenoir, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the fight against cancer, on strengthening europe's fight against cancer towards a comprehensive and coordinated strategy (2020/2267 ((ini) - a9-0001/2022). i would remind you that no debate during this monthly session has been a question-and-answer session and no blue cards will be accepted. as in the case of the recent monthly sessions, the possibility of voting at a distance from the parliament's contact offices in the member states was provided for. i would also like to remind you that in the plenary chamber the speakers still take the floor from the main floor. please check the list of speakers and come to the platform when it is time for you to speak.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i support the report which summarises the work of the special committee on cancer. for 15 months, here in the european parliament, we have been working to make the recommendations of cancer hearings and conferences relevant to the daily struggles of patients, their families, doctors and healthcare professionals. and despite the fact that we are still getting real and sad data on the shocking statistics of new cases and deaths from cancer, i think the report is meeting the real needs of patients. the report presents many good solutions, but one idea in particular is very clear and is its guiding principle: we want to ensure equal access to treatment, therapy and support for patients from all over europe. this access can only be achieved through intensive action to eliminate cancer risk factors, the expansion of screening programmes and the synergy of national cancer centres to ensure early diagnosis, effective treatment and professional care for patients. the simplest medical definition divides cancers into benign and malignant. and as a doctor, i agree with that division, but as a human being and a patient, i don't. cancer has many manifestations, both in the medical and socio-psychological context. and while none of these are benign, some of the solutions proposed in the report may certainly attempt to mitigate the effects of cancer through early prevention.
madam president! this is not just a cancer report, this is a life and death report. this is a report about our parents, our grandparents. this is a report on our children. this is a report on ourselves, after all. it is also a report on courage, which asks: do we have the courage as europe to change the situation where in one part of europe a woman dies of breast cancer and a thousand kilometres away the same woman lives with the same cancer? this is a question of courage. do we have the courage to change a situation where in one part of europe a mother is crying and begging for money for medicine for her child, and 500 kilometers away the same child has a chance of survival? the question is, do we have the courage to change the situation where people in europe are lacking drugs, cancer drugs, can we buy cancer drugs together? this is also a question for all those who say: we cannot fight cancer together because of the treaties. if the treaties are preventing us from fighting cancer, then the treaties need to be changed. it's also a report on hope, on the hope for life that a potential vaccine for cancer, which is the subject of so much talk today, gives us. people put us in politics to fight for their health and their lives. people put us in politics so that we would have the courage to change the world. and to give them hope. i hope they can live healthy and peaceful, safe lives. and that takes courage.
madam president! the report we are discussing also clearly overstates the aspect of occupational cancers. it is now estimated that about half of all cancer diagnoses are in working-age people. as the labour market situation changes, so does the list of carcinogens to which workers are constantly exposed. the problem of asbestos and the protection of workers remains and protection measures for these workers need to be maintained. more than 25 percent of cancer patients report loss of income as a consequence of their disease. self-employed persons are even worse off. in view of these factors, it is also necessary to emphasise the issue of combating discrimination against people who have suffered or are suffering from cancer for many years, their reintegration into the labour market and facilitating their return to work.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, when your child or a close family member is diagnosed with cancer, you would do anything to cure him. it is therefore very good that the european parliament is standing in solidarity with many such victims and that we are fighting cancer together. this is especially important for my country because, unfortunately, croatia leads in the number of cancer deaths in europe! as the european commission, along with many members of this parliament, acted as a sales representative for vaccine manufacturers during the pandemic, i think that now, in the future, it should use its sales skills to promote the importance of early detection of cancer. because of covid, many people have delayed their tests and early diagnosis procedures, and that's why we need to put extra effort and money into preventive systematic screening to detect malignancies as early as possible.
madam president, commissioner véronique, i cannot begin this speech today without mentioning a maltese hero who tragically lost his life, dr victor calvagna, who cured and saved hundreds of maltese and gozitan children from cancer. today is the day we remember childhood cancer. in recent months we have met with experts, scientists from all over the world and what they have told us is the same and clear. forty per cent of cancers in europe are preventable. these scientists have now passed this baton to us in this race, to us politicians, to take our decisions from all sides to reduce cancer in europe. we have a choice, either to rely on science and improve the lives of citizens, or to try to protect the interests of those big companies whose only aim is profit. for the first time we have a european plan, a plan for all of us, with four billion euros allocated to it. many across europe are grieving, but only together with our science-based vote tomorrow can we begin the path to winning this fight against cancer for all europeans.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the pandemic has shown how much more needs to be done for health systems in the european union. it also showed how much the european union and its institutions can do about it. an example of this is the discussion today. today, as the pandemic slowly draws to a close, we face another challenge, the huge number of patients that we have been unable to properly care for and treat due to the pandemic. this is a pressing problem in cancer care, where early treatment is the key to future success. early diagnosis, free testing is the key to victory here. this is why we as the european union must do everything we can to inform and raise awareness among citizens and patients about cancer prevention. but another important issue is access to modern treatments, and that's access quickly. there are no better or worse countries. it is important that the therapies available in germany, in france, are also offered to patients in poland, croatia and other countries. every patient has the right to fight for his or her health using the best available methods, and there should be no borders within the european union on this issue.
the commission has been working for a long time to ensure that the european union is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. the european plan is a generational opportunity to reduce these inequalities and to improve access to cancer care for all union citizens, regardless of their country of origin. this report is progressive, ambitious, science-based and gives us a chance to turn a new page in the fight against cancer. we can reverse these bad trends and reduce the alarming increase in cancer cases. but we must be persistent in this, especially when it comes to cigarettes, heated tobacco products, alcohol or the polluted environment, and therefore each of us should ask ourselves when voting what is more important to us: the health of our citizens or the interests of the lobby? today i am filled with hope that we are on the right track, and although it is a long and uncertain road, with this report we are making a big step forward. let's keep moving forward, bravely and together!
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. in the 2019 european parliament elections, as candidates of the polish people's party / european people's party, we ran with the postulate of the european union's involvement in the fight against cancer, so that soon no one in europe would die of cancer, so that the deadly disease would become a chronic disease at most. the european commission's cancer strategy last year, and the report we are discussing today, which outlines the way forward, are concrete steps to deliver on this promise to europeans in 2019. i am pleased that during the commission's year and a half of work we have benefited from the expertise of experts from all over europe, including poland, thanks to the involvement of professor arturo kowalik of the świętokrzyskie oncology centre, who is developing a more accessible and four times cheaper car-t gene therapy. we have added recommendations on the availability of early diagnosis, such as genetic tests or screening - for example, blood markers for the development of cancer developed at the institute of genetics in poznań. it's very important to use modern digital tools, big data, artificial intelligence in the research itself, but also in more effective oncology management, which increases the availability of help. however, it is crucial that the report takes a clear position in order to close the gaps in access to european oncology standards not only between eu countries but also between agglomerations and towns and villages with european funding. cancer is inevitably dependent on dna code, but it can't be dependent on a zip code.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. we are all equal when it comes to cancer, and it can strike anyone regardless of their social status or nationality. and that's why all of our citizens deserve equal treatment. it cannot be that in one member state cancer is effectively cured and in another it is practically a death sentence. it's very bad in poland, where the polish government is really only interested in health care until birth. instead of health care, the polish government spends billions on party anti-european propaganda. and that's why we need more europe, not just in foreign policy or monetary policy, but we also need a common health policy. all europeans deserve good, stable and predictable health care. it's as important as international security or financial security. and this should be the foundation for building a more integrated, federal europe from oslo to athens, from lisbon to kiev. you may say that i am a dreamer, but i am not the only one.
madam president! i'll start with a thank you. i would like to thank all those with whom i had the privilege of working in the beca committee, and i thank the authors of the report we are now debating. i believe that this document that we are now processing is a landmark. it is a document that will start a strong european health union and become a pillar of it. in my country, cancer kills 100,000 people a year. and we have to face the bitter truth: many areas of oncology in central and eastern europe are definitely lower than in western europe. this is an unacceptable situation. the odds of beating cancer can't depend on latitude. ladies and gentlemen, in the 21st century, in the european union, there are countries where cancer literally hurts more, so the very important things in this report, about buying drugs together, or about overcoming geographical differences in access to diagnosis and treatment, are elements that are undoubtedly investing in people, in their well-being. health cannot be measured by any material goods. what we are doing now is an investment in the lives and health of patients in the spirit of european solidarity and helpfulness. so let us be in solidarity tomorrow and vote on this report.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to start by saying that mr lenaers was kind enough to call in a polish lawyer who told such a witty story about the canary. however, he did not say that this lawyer is now suspected by the polish prosecutor's office and hides outside the borders of poland for the crimes of embezzlement of over 70 million zlotys and money laundering. i'm not judging his guilt. this should be decided by the courts, but the lawyer who told these silly stories here in the european parliament is now hiding and fleeing from polish justice. ladies and gentlemen! we are holding this debate on a day when at any moment we may hear news of russian aggression that could become the root of a major global crisis. i remind you that the precursor of these events was a hybrid attack on the border of the european union using migrants, which was carried out from the territory of belarus. the polish government has used enormous force to prevent the flow of migrants from travelling to western europe, becoming a tool of blackmail and pressure from the post-soviet satraps. the polish state has faced security challenges for years. recently, the coordinator of the special services, minister mariusz kamiński, referred to allegations made by the polish opposition about the allegedly illegal use of software that helps the services in carrying out their tasks. i would like to draw your attention to the words of minister kaminski, who indicates that politicians involved in criminal cases are trying to fabricate stories about the alleged... (the chairman interrupts the speaker) ...underlined without the court's permission. this type of thesis formulated by the polish opposition is a lie for the purposes of political struggle. is this kind of debate an attempt to attack our services in the european forum... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, mr high representative, we are experiencing a peak of tension on a global scale. intense talks are under way to prevent russia's invasion of ukraine from consummating itself, reopening a pandora's box on a continent that in the last century was the main stage of two bloody and destructive world wars. and in this emergency scenario, relations between europe and africa are of even greater importance. this week's summit in brussels is a defining moment. it must be the basis for strengthening a strong partnership between equals, pragmatic, multilateral, focused on results, on the quality of life of the people and on the sustainability of the planet. a partnership for which the africa-europe investment programme, to which the european union has allocated eur 150 million to focus on renewable energy, disaster risk reduction, digital transition, vaccines and education, is the starting point of the global gateway and which is expected to mobilise eur 300 billion of public and private funds for infrastructure projects worldwide. all these projects are a key tool to move more decisively from words to action and to strengthen the voice of the two continents as promoters of a global peace, based on cooperation and values, countering the growing influence of extremist and authoritarian currents in the geopolitical chessboard. the success of the europe-africa summit, which i sincerely hope will serve the peoples of the two continents, but it will also serve humanity.
madam president, africa in 2020 is like a huge construction site, where the most diverse actors are strengthening their presence. some deploy military means and try to oust actors who are not in line with the aggressive posture of those who take their place. others see africa as an opportunity to source raw materials on very questionable terms, more akin to resource plunder than to a true partnership. the european union, on the other hand, without claiming to be infallible, intends to rely on well-established principles, such as partnership, ownership and respect for the rule of law, among others, in its instrument for financing its external policy. the implementation of the ivcdci is certainly more laborious, less spectacular and often less visible in the short term, but it is in line with the expectations of african citizens. mr borrell has just reminded us that the problems of africans are also our problems. that is true, but let us add that the solutions to these problems must be essentially african. it's up to us to help.
madam president! i sincerely hope that the sixth eu-africa summit will be a turning point in the relations between the two continents. this is a truly unique opportunity to establish and renew a deeper partnership based on an understanding of common interests. i think one of the areas of cooperation, right after access to water and food security, is education, also in countries that are fragile and in conflict. one of the ways this is possible is through digital technology. africa's population will double by 2050. every month, about a million unskilled and uneducated young africans reach the age of productive employment. today's job market is highly competitive, and only those with the right skills will be able to lift themselves out of poverty and break the vicious cycle of violence, inequality and political instability. our role is not to provide concrete solutions, but to engage in a discussion on equal terms with our african partners. let's share each other. this will benefit people on both continents.
the next speaker is emmanuel macron. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
not macron, macron is someone else! madam president, the summit between the european union and the african union should have been an opportunity to review in depth the relations between our two continents. i doubt that this will be the case, although i know that we will have useful discussions on the health issue and the withdrawal of vaccines, the geostrategic issue and the situation in the sahel, which is very worrying. i would like to return to economic issues for a moment, because i think that has not been said enough: our trade relations with africa are deeply imbalanced, they are outdated, they are asymmetrical and they are objectively unconcerned with the interests of the african peoples. even though the cotonou agreement has been revised, the truth is that today there is no level playing field with africa. i think we also need to talk about the things that are annoying. the continuation of an africa under pressure from the imf, with which europe continues to blindly align itself, damages our credibility and also damages, in a certain way, our moral posture. finally, i believe that europe must change its view of africa, which is today too mercantile and condescending. yes, it's true, africa is our future; but to do that, we have to be a little more concerned with the interests of the people and a little less with those of the multinationals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the partnership with africa which will be discussed at this summit has always been based on humanitarian considerations, i would say on cooperation. but also for common history. there is a very strong common history between europe and africa, between african countries and european countries. but there is also an additional reason and that is self-interest: the european union's position in the world, the global position of europe, will always depend on a coalition with africa. only in partnership with africa can europe be a relevant voice in this global world. so it is essential to focus on training, education, public health, but also on security challenges which are clearly at the top of our priorities in our relationship with africa today. i would now like to say a word about the situation in mozambique, and to draw attention to the concern about what is happening in cape delgado, which could be a good school for cooperation between europe and africa, and what we are seeing today, according to information from the african union, is that china itself is already entering into this partnership and taking away the place of our mission in the context of cape delgado. i leave this alert and wish the best results for this summit.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). we had a plan. we wanted to show that africa is our most important partner, and we also wanted to show above all that we wanted to work with africa on an equal footing. as we know, that summit was cancelled because of the pandemic, it was postponed, and today we're back at it. i have to be honest with you. the optimism is gone. this is of course also linked to the wider geopolitical context, but we must not forget that we have disappointed the african people. there's a kind of cynicism that's emerged, because during this pandemic, we have to ask ourselves: have we treated the african people, have we treated the african continent as equals? they were the first to be banned from entering the country and the last to receive a vaccine! so, yeah, big disappointment! the way in which europe has blocked those patents, the determination shown and the false arguments we have used in doing so, have of course not helped. so we know what we have to do. we need to restore trust, and of course, we need to invest heavily: there's the european green deal, but there's also these patents. we must deliver on our promises and act on an equal footing with the african continent!
madam president, mr. high representative, i have to ask you to stop this. relations with africa are rightly an important part of the european union's policy, although we should be sleepwalking today over the situation on the russian-ukrainian border. but for africa, it's particularly important that we work with the african continent on security, on the economy, but most of all on migration. we should work out the best possible solutions to allow the union and africa to intensify trade, investment and information flows, but all with mutual respect. the new strategic framework for eu-africa cooperation should also take into account the economic and social impact of the covid-19 pandemic, and in particular the identified health protection gaps for millions of people. i would like to draw particular attention to the situation of children in africa, which in many parts of the continent is simply tragic. the youngest are condemned not only to live in poverty and malnutrition but also to hard labor and thus to interrupt their education, marry early, or join armed groups. we therefore need to work together to find comprehensive solutions to these problems too, so that the eu's aid is effective and reaches those most in need and at risk. through our partnership with africa, we must contribute to building a more sustainable and safe (unheard words) ...and future generations.
mr. chairman, please! thank you to the authors for an interesting report, a good one to describe the yeti, which is something that doesn't exist, and there is no bad security and defense policy. thank you for the interesting way you've approached the hybrid, cyber threats, the energy blackmail as a hybrid tactic. the report includes ambitious provisions on the development of civilian capabilities. but the old threats are not gone, they are visible to the naked eye, and the report is being verified by life in the context of the new face of the russian-ukrainian conflict. we have a problem with the preservation of european solidarity, the lack of solidarity and of a solidarity assessment of the threats. russia is a security threat, it's challenging the entire security architecture. instead of a realistic assessment, there are myths and illusions about dialogue, economic cooperation. if we don't have a common threat, we don't have a common response. we must therefore seek not autonomy, not self-determination - that is the mistake - not the qmv, which leads to hegemony, but the strengthening of the transatlantic ties with the united kingdom and, unfortunately, with turkey. we have no compass to help us at this moment, but thousands of american and british soldiers on polish soil.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate you on your report, but we're debating it on the most dramatic day of a generation. namely, we don't know if the russian president is telling the german chancellor the truth or if he's already heating up the engines to unleash a terrible tragedy to invade ukraine and start a war in europe. but one thing we do know is that we're in for a war, and that means we're already in another world. a world we're not prepared for. so whether he goes to ukraine or not, we have to act. we need to help ukraine defend itself, we need to strengthen nato's eastern flank, we need to help the russian opposition, we need to shut down russian money laundering, we need to create a gas union and a real-life defense union. high isbo! it's almost too late. i beg you: let us finally take defence, including european defence, deadly seriously!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to thank all of you for your work on this report, which is very important because it concerns the protection of our children. we are aware that despite the implementation of the provisions of the existing 2009 directive, the internal market and consumers still face a significant number of dangerous toys and other products that children come into contact with on a daily basis. while the directive needs to be updated, the key to eliminating the existing problems remains more effective enforcement of existing rules by market surveillance authorities and effective border sealing by customs services. we must also not forget that digital sales platforms add value for all market participants. we believe that the obligation to monitor and remove dangerous toys will improve the safety of children. our additional arguments in the report are an important part of the whole report. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we hope that the commission will take our suggestions into account. ladies and gentlemen, let's remember that we adults are responsible for protecting children. we are the ones who make the rules, and we have a real impact on them. i believe that our work together, our efforts together, will translate into what is most important to the child, which is a happy, healthy and safe childhood.
mr. chairman, please! for a long time, unfortunately, many of us have been fruitlessly calling for punishment for russia for blackmailing ukraine and parts of europe. unfortunately, after chancellor scholz's visit to moscow, i stopped believing that such sanctions would be imposed. i also stopped believing in meaningful support for ukraine. we are sending ukraine only expressions of political solidarity. but i'm glad we're starting to talk about more financial aid. however, it is time to start the next phase of cooperation after the eastern partnership, which seems to have exhausted its potential. let us open the path to eu membership for ukraine, moldova and georgia. first, it could be a link to the three seas initiative sectoral cooperation in the fields of energy and transport infrastructure. secondly, let us open up further sectors and agencies of the union. the third step should be to integrate these countries into the common market, following the example of switzerland. and finally, the fourth element is membership after meeting the copenhagen criteria. ukraine's economic success in the eu, the positive alternative development of the post-soviet society in the eu, is a great example for the russians and a nightmare for putin. let's prepare that fate for putin.
mr president, as many colleagues from different political groups have underlined this morning, the current escalating tensions and the threat of unprecedented military aggression by the russian federation against ukraine are indeed not only targeting ukraine but also threatening the rules-based international order and threatening europe as a whole. and this is why we must stand together in this crucial moment. as the european parliament, we will not waver in our support of ukraine’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally-recognised borders. ukraine has a sovereign right to choose its international alliances freely. the russian federation must cease its military threat against ukraine and immediately, as well as fully, withdraw its forces and military equipment from the border of ukraine. any further military aggression against ukraine would have massive and unprecedented consequences and severe costs in response, including restrictive measures coordinated with our international partners. it is on the kremlin to de-escalate and to engage constructively through established mechanisms. the double track of diplomatic engagement and deterrence remains key to solving the current situation. a final remark: following monday’s vote to apply an urgent procedure, we are now, this noon, set to give the green light to an emergency eur 1.2 billion loan to ukraine to cover its external financing needs in 2022. this demonstrates our solidarity and support for ukraine and the ukrainian people.
mr. chairman, please! regardless of how the current crisis caused by russia's threat to invade ukraine will end, it is high time that we learned from this next lesson. russia has been pursuing an adventurous foreign policy for several years, constantly surprising other countries, especially the west, with its actions. the initiative is always on her side, and that condemns our policy to reactivity. if we add to this a fairly common opportunism dictated by financial and economic interests and a desire to keep the troubles away from each other, if we add to this mixture a lack of knowledge of russia and a naivety that suggests that one can always find a way to reach an agreement, we end up with an ineffective policy, treated with contemptuous disdain by russia. for the first time, the west's declared response to possible russian aggression includes the threat of really serious and costly sanctions, which mr. putin cannot ignore in his profit-and-loss calculation. i think we need to go further and credibly threaten the interests of the corrupt elites. europe must also make a strong effort to become independent of russian energy supplies. a country that violates international law, robs its neighbors of parts of their territory, uses brutal military force in its policies, corrupts the party and politicians in our countries, conducts an intensive campaign of lies in the digital space, cannot be treated as a reliable partner. the security of our energy system cannot be left to the whims of russia's autocratic leader. it is time for individual initiative, for comprehensive and collective action. today, let us urgently help ukraine. tomorrow, let us seriously consider how to eliminate the causes of our helplessness in the face of threats from the adventurer to our neighbor.
madam president, we tried to integrate post-soviet russia into our community. we admitted russia into the council of europe. we signed a partnership and cooperation agreement. we were ready to sign partnership and cooperation agreement ii, which would have been an association agreement in all but name. but mr putin has gone the way of conquest, and that, of course, has to be countered. i welcome the words of the president of the european commission that we need to become more independent in the energy sphere. european defence is one thing, but what we really need is a gas union. just as the commission buys uranium on behalf of member states and then distributes it among member states, we could be using the power of monopsony, of being the largest client customer for russian gas. i call on germany to overcome the selfish logic of nord stream 2 and to become the leader of the gas union. this would be good for the environment, good for the european economy, good for member states (we would all get gas cheaper) and good for our standing with mr putin. he will not change his mind thanks to partnerships between cities – it’s not the language he understands. he will change his behaviour if we confront him with actions, not just words.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! russia is closer to the european union than some politicians or even us in this house sometimes seem to remember. and putin is a more ruthless dictator than those who try to do business with him are deluded to believe. she's ruthlessly exploiting the weakness, the naivety, the lack of courage in her relationship with him. we must not be under any illusion that allowing the construction of, say, nord stream 2 or making europe dependent on russian gas will not have consequences. this is the moment. we must be united, united and unambiguous in our decisions. today we must support ukraine and we must also remember that the european union's policy towards russia must be firm and unambiguous. that's what europe needs today, that's what ukraine needs today.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! this debate is not just a debate about the security of ukraine, it is, in fact, a debate about our future, about the security of europe, including my country, poland. because what is putin most afraid of? putin is afraid of a good example, a good example that comes from our societies, from our countries. he is afraid that the ukrainians will choose the way of life that we, the poles, or other neighbours, the slovaks, the hungarians or the romanians, have chosen, namely democracy, civil rights, rapid development and security, security also guaranteed by nato. our duty in this house, here in strasbourg and in brussels, is to say to putin clearly: ukraine has the right to choose its future, it has the right to count on full membership of the european union, it has the right to count on security, and we must help the ukrainians to do so. solidarity with ukraine is our duty in the name of european security, in the name of our future. and another note, putin is afraid of this because he's afraid of a good example of contagion in russia as well. because the democrats in russia are getting stronger, not weaker. they see how to live, too. and that's why we can't forget the democrats in russia. the freedom of alexei navalny and solidarity with ukraine is our duty today.
madam president, mr vice-president schinas, let us not be deceived, this is a fight for the survival of our way of life. our democracy is the main course. putin's goal, like many other dictators and dictator-trainees, is to prevent the vaccine of democracy from spreading through their countries. and to do that, they'll use every weapon they can. the threats to ukrainian territory are not just a warning. apart from a security alliance, which we are, and our commitments to nato, above all is the defense of our democratic values, not only in ukraine, but also in belarus, in venezuela and in russia itself, by supporting fighters for democracy like alexei navalny. i am addressing the members of the left, who know very well that putin's russia is not the soviet system that some people long for, that maduro is not a socialist and that the chinese communist party is anything but a communist. they are corrupt regimes full of oligarchs who defend their economic interests and impervious to democracy. the european union must be able to cope with the situation and respond decisively to what is happening in ukraine. let's practice the values we talked about so much. let us forget the hope for global democracy that we nurtured in the 1980s and 1990s. we are in a new phase of the cold war. democracy against autocracies. we can't let our guard down. and above all, our asset is the economy, which remains our most powerful weapon. we must have clear, prepared and targeted sanctions against these kinds of threats to our democratic system.
madam president, i could not imagine until today that the nazi slogan, the slogan of nazi collaborator stepan bandera, would be pronounced from this tribune so many times and echoed in the hemicycle. we are living in the time of information wars, and one of the instruments is, of course, the slogan. one of the instruments is disinformation, and we are giving an example of it now by having the title of the debate: russia’s military threat against ukraine. it is not proved. it was repeated – it was even mentioned today – that ukrainian diplomats are denying this elsewhere in the european union because it’s damaging ukraine. i will speak about facts: facts registered by the united nations, osce and other bodies. these are children killed in donbas. in the last eight years, 152 children were killed and 146 injured. the latest case is the case of vladik dmitriyev, the four—year—old boy killed by a drone... (the president cut off the speaker who was displaying a poster)
colleague, i am obliged to tell you that, according to the rules of procedure, this is not allowed. i am very sorry. your time is out. you have to do this outside the plenary.
madam president! we're the second largest democracy in the world. this is a huge responsibility not only to promote democratization in the world, but also to promote world peace. unfortunately, this is another debate and another situation where we see that peace is not given once and for all. this is another lesson that we as the european union could have prepared better for. this is another crisis created by russia, because russia wants belarus and ukraine, and belarus and ukraine want independence and freedom. so we need to do something real, to give financial support to these countries. the union's leadership in the conference on the future of belarus and support for ukraine is needed. we need a new eu strategy for belarus, which we have not yet worked out, and a plan for ukraine, because the previous ones have unfortunately not worked. we also need to abolish the unanimity rule in the union's foreign policy, because today we have 27 foreign ministers and therefore 27 different positions. long live free and independent ukraine!
madam president, the commission president rightly said that this conflict was about democracy, about values and about freedom. and she’s right. but also in such a conflict, diplomacy plays a very important role. it seems to me that it was the rather clear position of nato, the first stance of us diplomacy and efforts of some european politicians that turned the situation to the better. eu foreign policy didn’t play a sufficient role. i guess this is another wake up call for us. we need such a foreign policy that would work and that would be recognised. european countries also should invest more in the military. we cannot afford to be again the free rider of nato. also, we must be much better prepared for conflicts with countries that are an important supplier of energy, like russia. not ex—post evaluation, but ex—ante assessment of the risk and sufficient guard, how to protect our people and how to protect our economy. we shouldn’t fool ourselves. despite easing the pressure, russia is still sponsoring war in east ukraine. millions of ukrainians are suffering, and we have troubles to find the right way to help them and also protect our interest. at the same time, i believe that the politics of mr putin are getting more aggressive and less predictable. we, again, should not be naive. suffering by his country wouldn’t change his mind, because it doesn’t affect his well—being. only very bold sanctions can have an impact. so the next time, we must be much more better prepared than this time.
madam president! fellow workers! yesterday in moscow, chancellor scholz said that war in europe is unthinkable for his generation. it is also unthinkable for my generation, and that is why we must do everything to prevent scenarios that end in war. the presidents of the european council and the commission said today that the diplomatic efforts so far had led to a certain de-escalation of the conflict. however, russia is not getting rid of the military argument and still maintains forces that could pose a serious threat to ukraine, which it will be ready to use for military intervention. the encirclement of ukraine is an act of aggression, not a peace sign. the current crisis should be another lesson for europe. diplomatic talks are mainly conducted by the leaders of the member states, not by the heads of the eu institutions and diplomats. unfortunately, this is part of russia's strategy to ignore the european union. what we can do today for ukraine is a significant financial aid and a road map for ukraine's membership in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we still have a complex situation, and in this situation i am absolutely in favour of european solidarity with ukraine. it must remain our top priority to eliminate the danger of war in europe in the short and medium term. and that can only be done through diplomatic means. but what do the citizens of this continent want in the long term? they want peace, a lasting and comprehensive peace on this continent, and above all a peace order that is also fit for the 21st century. i have heard a lot about red lines and maximum demands in the last days and weeks, but ultimately olaf scholz said yesterday that we all have to give ourselves a jolt. i think everyone needs to move. and that's perhaps the good thing about crises, too, is that crises are an opportunity, that we need to focus, and that maybe now is actually opening up what we call a window of opportunity to really take a decisive, bold step in that direction. and if we've been going downhill in our relationship for maybe 30 years, maybe now is the time to go up for the next 30 years in these relationships.
madam president, i would like to thank you. for me, it is self-evident that every people has the right to choose its own future. it is a non-negotiable principle. it should therefore be made clear that this conflict is rooted in russian power ambitions that daily keep people in an iron grip. it not only challenges the integrity of ukraine, the right of the people to choose their path and make their choices, but it also threatens the stability that has characterised our times. the eu's unity is a prerequisite for resistance. this aggression must not go unchallenged. i am glad that we are united in the union today. the message from the president of the commission here today is welcome and indicates a determination which i believe is necessary and which is definitely proportionate to the seriousness of the matter. we have now chosen our path and we are keeping the path of diplomacy and dialogue open. now it's up to putin and russia to show that they, too, are going to be on the right side of history.
madam president, we stand before another potential deadly crisis orchestrated by vladimir putin. but whether an invasion happens or not, he has threatened war and backed up that threat with the deployment of 150 000 troops close to ukraine and in a neighbouring country, belarus. the military build-up around ukraine has not been seen since the cold war. nevertheless, there is still room for a diplomatic resolution, and i sincerely hope this is the path chosen by mr putin. however, this is a keen reminder that russia cannot be a trusted partner for the eu, and this should include how we get our energy. president von der leyen is right. it is in europe’s strategic interest to diversify our gas sources to reduce our dependence on russia. our future lies in home-grown renewables but, until we fully transition, lng can provide an avenue away from russia, with terminals future-proofed to handle green energy. in this regard, i would ask minister eamon ryan in ireland to take stock of this debate here today.
madam president, were russia to invade the ukraine as of now, it would be a gross mistake and greatly damage russia’s standing and interests. acknowledging this does not imply that the current impasse is solely russia’s responsibility. indeed, western powers from within the eu and nato and from outside consistently believed they had the upper—hand in any long—term face—off with russia. they ignored russia’s legitimate concerns about the security, intervened in its economy and broke their open—ended promises not to extend their military reach in europe. when this helped promote regrettable authoritarianism in russia’s governance, they consolidated the face—off further. as a result, the legitimate security and other concerns of russia’s neighbours became constrained. they now have to consider their only protection is nato. should not the goal have been a european diplomatic architecture, allowing equally for the security concerns of russia, its neighbours and western europe as a whole? french president de gaulle once called for a europe, united from the atlantic to the urals. german chancellor willy brandt once launched his ostpolitik. they foresaw a europe in which both russia and the rest of europe occupied a meaningful space. why has the vision been abandoned?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am addressing the citizens of europe. our position in the european parliament is clear: we are the political project to overcome the violent division of europe and the cold war. putin wants to turn the wheel of history back. we defend our rights and values at home and the sovereignty of our neighbours. putin is hurt, blackmailed, ignored and ready for war. our weapons are diplomacy, sanctions, support for ukraine, independence, sovereignty and unity, a common foreign, security and defence policy. we condemn the intention to recognise luhansk and donetsk, because it amounts to a division of ukraine. our sanctions are clear: nord stream 2 must be stopped, physical assets must be frozen, the exclusion from the payment system must be ensured and no high-technology supplies must be made. but we must not go on with the rest of the agenda. crimea is occupied and navalny is in prison.
madam president, what is going on today is nothing other than just the conflict between authoritarianism and democracy. the kremlin is testing our unity. during the last years, the kremlin invested a huge amount of resources just to destabilise our common project – our common project, which brought peace to europe and prosperity to our families. i am sure that a peaceful solution cannot be reached through inaction. our position must be clear and strong. in case of any forced attack, stronger sanctions, that will practically cut the aggressor from the developed world, should be our weapon. at the same time, we have to show a friendly face to ukrainians. i welcome the eur 1.2 billion package and i do hope we will see more ukrainians also studying at european universities and to intern at the european institutions. we should continue to empower the eu-ukraine cooperation at economic level, by reducing burdens at our markets for goods, services and labour. today we have to show our unity to the dictator and we will not only win, but we will emerge from the current situation even stronger.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the intensity and extent of our exchanges today – because there have been almost 100 interventions covering the full political spectrum of this house – show how important the situation is and underlines the gravity of the situation. guy verhofstadt is quite right: apart from the far right and the far left, there has been a remarkable unity among the members of the parliament, which represents more or less the same unity between member states – with nuances, certainly, but with a strong unity among us. the issue – and guy has already said this – is that ukraine is not a military threat to russia, but it is a political threat because, if ukraine builds a vibrant democracy and grows into a prosperous economy, then it will be an example, and in putin’s russia, after 20 years of his government, the economy is in bad shape and the system is more and more autocratic or authoritarian. even today, we can see that the opposition politician navalny, inside the penal colony, has another trial starting against him, regrettably without any possibility of observation. so as the ukrainians continue to advance on their reforms, building a democracy and a prosperous economy, it is something that russia’s putin can certainly not look at with good eyes. but the ukrainians have certainly made their choice, and i think that most of them prefer to live under democracy, the rule of law and a free market economy than look into what’s happening in russia. and this is the real issue. the real issue is how we can support ukraine on this path to democracy and economic prosperity. it is impossible to answer, or even to refer to, all the questions that you have raised today. i just want to answer in particular hilde vautmans, when she asked me directly if i could assure you that this unity has not been jeopardised by the initiatives taken by some member states. certainly, i can assure you. plusieurs membres de l’union européenne, en particulier la france – je le dis en français – et le président macron, mais aussi l’allemagne, ont pris des initiatives politiques pour essayer de favoriser un règlement pacifique de la crise. toutefois, toutes ces initiatives ont été menées en cohérence avec les positions de l’union et dans des conditions de grande transparence. nous avons été informés en amont et en aval de ces initiatives. je pense que, autour de l’ukraine, il s’est bâti un climat de confiance entre les états membres à propos de la crise. je crois que c’est la meilleure façon de répondre à l’agression russe. soyez donc tranquilles, mesdames et messieurs les députés, les initiatives qui ont été prises ici et là par plusieurs états membres n’ont pas affaibli l’unité européenne. au contraire, elles nous ont permis d’être plus actifs et de participer davantage aux démarches diplomatiques qui ont eu lieu. some other members have been saying that we have been negotiating with russia and asking if there have been any concessions. certainly not. first, we haven’t been negotiating with russia so, if there is no negotiation, there are no concessions. we have just been answering letters in a very united way, and certainly my political director held talks with his russian counterpart about the european situation in general in january. they discussed the political situation around the ukrainian crisis, but i cannot consider that negotiations, so don’t be worried about possible concessions from one side or the other. there are many issues about the diversification of the energy supply, but i think the president of the commission has given a very complete answer on all the work that she personally and my colleagues, commissioners and myself have been doing with other suppliers of gas – norway, algeria, azerbaijan, the us. we have also been talking with countries in the pacific which can reroute some supplies of gas. this amount of work presents us with the advantage of being ready and able to face a crisis in an emergency. what i want to stress is that, in the face of the russian military threat, we believe that a diplomatic way out of the crisis that russia has caused is still possible. this is our top priority and what we are investing all our efforts in. let me stress that. we still believe that a diplomatic way out of the crisis is possible but, in parallel, we have accelerated the work on restrictive measures – that is what the treaty calls it when we use sanctions (the word sanctions is not in the treaty, just restrictive measures), including sectoral, financial and individual sanctions that would be adopted in close coordination with like—minded countries in europe and across the atlantic in case of military aggression. be sure of that. and be sure also that, even if moscow has deliberately been bypassing europe in security discussions because president putin profoundly disagrees with the values that we, the european union, practice and defend. and this is a real problem. they disagree with our values and with our way of living, the european way of living. what do we represent? a combination of political freedom, economic prosperity and social cohesion. and this is why, since the beginning of the crisis, we have been expressing our principal positions about the main parameters that have defined european security architecture for the last 30 years. but we have to think about what russia is looking for. qu’est ce qu’elle veut, la russie? what does russia want by creating this crisis? i think that they have several objectives. the first one is to return to the heart of the world game: to be recognised as an equal player with the us at a time when the us is turning towards asia. to be again considered as a global player. i have to say that, from this point of view, putin has had some success, because now everybody’s talking with him. he has played in the centre of the political game. the second purpose, linked to the first, is also intended to test the possibility of a decoupling between the united states and europe, particularly after the american withdrawal from afghanistan. in this respect, they should be quite disappointed, because our unity has been increased, not weakened. finally, he seeks to reconstitute the former soviet sphere by raising fears about nato enlargement. and it’s true that the question of nato enlargement plays an important role on the russian psychology in its relationship to the west. but to try to reduce everything in this crisis to the question of nato enlargement or to think that, once a possible guarantee of ukraine’s membership or non-membership of nato could be obtained, this would solve everything and we would go back to normal, is illusory. it’s illusory simply because, when you look at what is happening in belarus (and no one has ever said that belarus could join the european union or nato), we have been witnessing a real russian stronghold on the country since lukashenko was in trouble and played for his survival at the price of integration and even absorption into a greater russia. so no, don’t reduce that to nato expansion. the big problem is the fight between two different political and economic systems. what do we represent? our values and their values, our way of living and their way of living. this is the real fight. it is not a fight between armies. it is a fight about ideas, which are sometimes much more important. until now, nothing is played, nothing is won, but we have to keep vigilant. what we must avoid, basically, is a re-edition of the crimea scheme, where we were quite surprised by the invasion and reacted with sanctions, but nothing more. now we must show that any invasion of ukraine, whatever form it takes, be it annexation of donbas or isolated military incursions into the rest of ukraine, would be prohibitively expensive for russia and for its oligarchs. so the package of sanctions that we have been working on, that we have ready to implement, has to be strong and credible. but at the same time, we must not close the door to a discussion. even when discussing, we must apply the rules of social distancing. we must therefore combine firmness and determination with a willingness to engage in a dialogue as soon as russia agrees to play the game of negotiation and to move away from the logic of ultimatum and military intimidation that it has been practising for several months now. mr lavrov has just declared that he’s ready to continue discussions, so let’s do it. let’s discuss seriously but without lowering our guard. i hope this debate will have marked this path.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. we're talking today about the military threat to ukraine and the recent diplomatic efforts to ease tensions between russia and the west over ukraine. we are on the brink of a conflict whose scale and consequences are difficult to imagine. the russian army is standing on the border with ukraine, waiting for orders. earlier, russia showed that it will not back down from the absolute pursuit of its interests, as in georgia in 2008 and crimea in 2014. the west watched, protested, but instead of effectively stopping the russian aggressor and preventing further conflict, it did and did business with putin. even today, instead of finally closing the nord stream 2 pipeline project, the german side is at most considering suspending the start of this project a dangerous investment that should never have been made. russia is ruthlessly exploiting this weakness of western europe, this is an element of economic warfare that europe does not want to see. in 2008, president lech kaczynski warned in tbilisi that today it's georgia, tomorrow ukraine, the day after tomorrow the baltic states, and then maybe it's time for my country, poland. europe seemed deaf to these words. it is high time that we took these words seriously and gave the russian aggressor a response that matched his actions, instead of doing business with him and becoming more dependent on his dictates.
in writing. russia has proven once again that there is no border it cannot cross. once again, they crossed the line of humanity. after the chechens, after georgia, they invaded ukraine. our european strength is our values, but they have value only if they are protected. otherwise, they mean nothing. it is their defense that is the way to confront this barbarity that is happening before our eyes. if we europeans do not act consistently and decisively, a europe united and diverse will collapse. today, the borders of europe have shifted. they're there in kramatorsk, they're under kharkov, in the donbas. they are there because there are people there - ukrainians and ukrainian women who share the same values as us and defend them. they deserve the highest respect. let's do everything we can to help them.
in writing. the crisis caused by russia's actions in ukraine poses a serious challenge to european security. we express our deep concern at russia's increasing military build-up along the border with ukraine, including further troop movements, deployment of heavy equipment and offensive weapons, and further military exercises in belarus. moscow has so far shown no willingness to de-escalate despite efforts by the international community, including poland, to bring the situation to a political norm. in this situation, the focus should be on using diplomatic instruments to resolve the crisis. the osce is the appropriate forum for dialogue with russia, which is why poland, which currently chairs the osce, has initiated the renewed dialogue on european security, while some western countries are ready to make concessions in bilateral relations with russia and strike a deal over the heads of central and eastern europe. this is unacceptable. we need to coordinate the actions of the eu member states to support our work in the osce. these actions should be consistent and closely coordinated with nato actions. we cannot wait idly for moscow to act. it is essential to take swift action to support ukraine.
in writing. in recent weeks, tensions in ukraine have generated a wave of instability in europe with significant risks to societies and economies in the region. the current situation in the black sea area requires an adequate and joint response by the european union in terms of defence and security actions, but also in the conduct of an effective sanctions regime and the protection of potential refugees. there are tens of thousands of eu citizens or people from historical ethnic communities of eu states living in ukraine, whom we have a legal and moral duty to protect. this is also the case for romanian citizens or ethnic romanians from ukraine. we need to be prepared for any scenario, to provide them with adequate protection and support mechanisms. the security of european citizens and representatives of european national minorities in ukraine must be a common priority at eu level at this time.
in writing. russian aggression in ukraine has been ongoing for several years, starting with the illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 through the intervention of russian-led forces in donbas. the russian actions aimed at destabilising ukraine have been systematic and carefully planned. for several weeks now, the world has been hearing about russia's military buildup on the border with ukraine. military personnel, equipment and soldiers are constantly arriving, and russia is starting a provocation, shelling homes, schools and preparing for war. putin is looking for a pretext to invade and, according to us intelligence, is even considering staging a genocide to use as a pretext to invade ukraine. the kremlin is watching very closely the reaction of the west and is studying how much it can afford, so i want to make it clear that we will not be fooled. the aggressor is russia, which wants to start a war with a peaceful, sovereign and independent country ukraine. in the event of interference, we will respond decisively and immediately. we will not allow the blood of innocent people to be spilled.
in writing. you are talking about a possible conflict in ukraine. this conflict is, it's been going on for eight years and it's taking more innocent lives. but much of europe pretends not to see it. since the 2008 attack on georgia, we have seen the rise of putin's russia's imperialist policies. "we know very well that today georgia, tomorrow ukraine, the day after tomorrow the baltic states, and then maybe it's time for my country, for poland!" warned lech kaczynski in tbilisi during the invasion of georgia. the decisive response of the central and eastern european countries has stopped the bloodshed in the caucasus. but the peace did not last long, and in 2014, russia went one step further, sparking an armed conflict in ukraine that continues to this day! at that time, western leaders lacked a firm response. the annexation of crimea and the war in donbas, which has claimed the lives of several thousand citizens, did not prevent the construction of the german-russian nordstream 2 gas pipeline (passing not only ukraine), condemning it to russian gas blackmail. this is european solidarity in action. we will not stop putin by sending him another billion euros to arm against us and our allies! let us listen again to the words of president kaczynski, who, like few others, was aware of the unpredictable and ruthless nature of our adversary. let's support ukraine, let's be together, let's be united and decisive!
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. minister, please! youth is at the heart of today's debate and at the heart of the european parliament's work. it is the young who are the future of europe. it's the youth that are our hope. it is therefore good that we have succeeded in designating 2022 as the european year of youth, to draw attention to the role it plays in building a better, greener, more socially and digitally inclusive future. it is pleased that the european youth year will provide many opportunities to learn, share your vision, meet people and get involved in activities across europe. it's time to think with confidence and hope about the future after the pandemic is over. moreover, the conference on the future of europe also focuses on young people and gives them the opportunity to share their vision. today we are voting in plenary on a resolution on young people and their competences in employment and social affairs. in this resolution, we call for greater involvement of the social partners and youth organisations and for their consultation in the implementation of the european youth guarantee. we need to make full use of the opportunities offered by existing initiatives such as erasmus+ and funds to support the employment and social situation of young people. mental health, strengthening education, training and skills measures, and ensuring equal opportunities and access to inclusive labour markets are key to building the future of young people. dear young people, this is your year. so be the best ambassadors of this year and of europe's common future.
mr. chairman, please! i often hear that we're growing up as a covid generation, or rather a post-covid generation, with a lot of loneliness. i don't agree with that statement. it stigmatizes young people. it's a sign at the beginning of the road. this is a generation that has been limited by the pandemic. but all of that can be changed by recognizing the risks that covid has brought, such as distance learning, the suspension of training programs, educational programs, youth unemployment, and their poorer financial situation. and the mental health of young people is also very important today, because social isolation has had its negative effects. emotional ties have been weakened or broken, work-life balance has been disrupted, and adulthood has been hindered. it is therefore important to find solutions that strike a balance and open the door to education and employment for young people. and we, as adults and as politicians, should be smart and responsible in supporting them.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! if we don't invest wisely in our young people today, we will lose the chance for a good future for all of us, and especially for this generation. i think it's crucial that employers, teachers, politicians, the media, governments, all of them, realize that stable employment, health, the conditions for full development, and a sense of empowerment and engagement of young people are the basic conditions for overcoming the crisis, for strengthening societies and rebuilding economies. i have already spoken about this today, but i would like to focus on one aspect in particular, and that is the aspect of the mental health of the younger generation. the pandemic has significantly exacerbated the mental health problems of children and adolescents. it is estimated that 65% of young people are at risk of depression, and 9 million younger people suffer from mental disorders, especially anxiety and depression. suicide is the second leading cause of death among young people. the situation is really alarming. it is therefore necessary to raise awareness of these risks and to better prepare schools and healthcare facilities, as well as to combat bullying and harassment online, at school and in the workplace. the development of a network of environmental services for the prevention, diagnosis, rehabilitation and treatment of mental disorders is also necessary.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. no secret agenda, no additional obligation, just plain and simple, what all member states agreed on; in fact, what makes the european union. yes, the european union is not just a single market, but a union of values, and this applies to all aspects of this union, including the budget. for me, it is hard to understand that people don’t get that. this fundament is not only a clear commitment and promise between the member states, but it is first and foremost a commitment and promise to our citizens. and whether you live in finland, in spain, in poland or in ireland, you have to be able to fully rely on that and you have to know that the eu institutions will defend this. the commission shall promote the general interest of the union and take appropriate initiatives to that end. it shall ensure the application of the treaties and of measures adopted by the institutions pursuant to them. you are the guardians of the treaties. but right now you look more like the masterminds of delaying tactics and avoiding responsibility, mr commissioner. now you come back with guidelines. now, after these many months. power comes with responsibility and you are neglecting this responsibility. you are failing, not only in the duties that stem from the treaties, but you are failing millions of eu citizens that have put trust in you, that count on you. the european parliament cannot and will not let that stand. we have to do something. and that will also mean considering the postponement of the discharge of the commission until you no longer fail the responsibility to protect this union and its citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. well, you said it was about protecting money. the question is: why, commissioner, did you first send a letter to poland, when in your own rankings poland is at the top of the countries that spend money most honestly, and you did not send a letter to the czech republic, for example, when the previous prime minister was giving himself european money? but you didn't mind because he was from your political group. let's just remember what this whole thing is about. well, the accusation of poland of politicizing the election of judges to the judicial council. but poland has chosen your system, the western, european, spanish system, where, i remind you, the spanish parliament elects the judges to the council by a three-fifths majority, just as in poland. but they're still judges. in a similar situation in germany, i want to remind you that the judges have no say at all. it's the politicians who decide who gets to be a judge. and of course, you respond to this accusation by quoting from the venice commission's analysis in this regulation, which says that some countries can do this because they have a better culture and better traditions. so, in short, you think that some nations are better than others. i wonder how this relates to article 4 of the treaty, which says: 'the union shall respect the equality of all member states'? i would also like to know - and i am asking this question to commissioner von der leyen - what better traditions are the president talking about? because it just so happens that poland built its legacy of institutions on religious freedom, on republicanism, and you did most of the things you did in poland by force and rape. you attacked us when we created the first constitution in europe because it interfered with the freedom that was in poland, which nowhere in europe was as much as in poland. do you think it's different today? cancel culture is our invention, is it polish invention or is it your invention? then why are you suing people for reading the bible? in poland? no, in poland there is no censorship, in poland there is freedom. history likes to repeat itself. get off the path of better and worse countries, because it will lead you nowhere, but will gradually destroy the european union.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! one mep (probably from the s&d group) asked: what is happening in poland, what is poland doing? poland is doing what is most important to the people of europe at the moment, security. and it is this security, including yours, that he is defending against putin, who, among other things, here in this house, has been allowed to implement nordstream 2, to whom he has been entrusted with the energy security of europe. it is worth recalling this, because these are the real concerns of europeans today. but since there is a debate about the ecj ruling, it is worth recalling that the european community, the european union, was founded as a community of free, independent, sovereign states that want to cooperate with each other on the basis of the treaties that they have signed. and it is the democratically elected governments of these countries that have the mandate to decide on the future of europe and what happens in the european union. the question to be asked today is: what does this ruling of the cjeu mean? where is the european union heading? will the decisions be taken by sovereign member states or by eu bureaucrats who want the union to be shaped by their own rules?
madam president, friends, today’s debate is not about money or the budget. today is about the credibility of the european union as a community of values and a community of law. this is chefsache, and president von der leyen’s absence for today’s debate i find particularly ill—judged, and reflects contempt for parliament. in the next few months, as far as i’m concerned, the commission will have to prove it still deserves our confidence. everybody knew this would be the outcome of the court case. parliament knew it. the commission knew it. orbán and kaczyński knew it. but for over 12 months, the commission chose to play charades. twelve months of agony for judges, journalists, academics and ngos in hungary and poland. twelve more months enabling the demolition of democracy and the consolidation of autocracies funded with eu taxpayers’ money. twelve months wasted. but the european council, for 12 years, has knowingly allowed corrupt autocrats to destroy the rule of law and fundamental rights. government leaders, i’m afraid, are fully co—responsible for the current mess, and now they have to be co—responsible for fixing it. i expect the european council to give full and explicit backing to the commission for applying the regulation immediately and in full, with no phoney excuses of guidelines that everybody knows are not necessary. no more pretexts. no more delays. the people of europe are watching you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 16 february the court of justice of the european union dismissed the action brought by poland and hungary against the european regulation of 16 december 2020 which creates a so-called 'conditionality' mechanism. if these two countries attacked, it was because they knew very well that they would be the first victims. this mechanism consists in depriving member states of all or part of european subsidies when they violate, i quote the regulation, 'the principles of the rule of law'. poland and hungary will therefore suffer the consequences, since the union is not without its audacity reproaching them for having reformed their national judiciary. the court found them wrong. this was to be expected, since it has always interpreted european law in a federalist sense and in a way that denies the sovereignty of the states. two arguments should have won the battle for both countries. first, the argument that this mechanism circumvents the sanctioning procedure laid down in article 7 of the treaty on european union, which requires a unanimous vote of the member states to establish fault and decide on the sanction. but the court rejected this argument on the basis of a byzantine subtlety, explaining that the aim was to protect the union's budget and not to punish the state responsible. second, the argument that the principle of legal certainty is infringed, since no one knows in advance what exactly the concept of the rule of law covers. this is correct, since the european parliament has just included the principle of the primacy of eu law, which was not included in the treaty until now. but the court flatly rejected this argument, referring the ignorant to its own case-law on the matter. the european union has thus reached a new stage in its transformation into an authoritarian and arrogant entity. the urgency of replacing it with a europe of nations has never been greater, because we do not want a new empire in which a deviant liberal ideology plays the role once held by marxism.
madam president! i take the liberty of saying that i hope there will be no censorship today, because yesterday the president of the chamber tried to censor my speech, in contravention of the rules of this house. the judgment of the cjeu confirms the dangerous tendency of the eu institutions to extend the provisions of law beyond the eu treaty. this type of action, which extends the eu treaties, must be viewed negatively. this is a dangerous trend which could create legal uncertainty in the european union. this is clearly seen, for example, in the comments made by those of you in this house who are trying to extend today's ruling of the court of justice to include ideological and political charges against those countries where parties outside the establishment are in power. i would like to appeal to you, instead of exerting undue pressure on the european commission, to put an end to this full emphasis and political-ideological obsession with tirades, and simply read the justification for today's decision of the cjeu. it states expressly that the procedure provided for may be initiated only where there is reasonable evidence that the breach of the rules of law affects, or threatens to affect, in a sufficiently direct manner, the sound financial management of the union budget or the protection of the financial interests. and poland, when it comes to spending eu funds, is at the top of the countries with which there are no objections.
madam speaker, the house! i'll speak in polish because i want to be heard in warsaw by the ruling party, which, like every defendant who loses a case, complains that the court is biased, that he is innocent and all that. and the truth is that you have taken on such a delicate matter as judicial reform, breaking the constitution and procedures with the subtlety of a machete, in an atmosphere of persecution of judges, the opposition, and then you are surprised that everyone is scared of this and recognized that you are introducing murder. no regrets are gonna help today. the only thing that is decided is whether you do what is necessary to get poland 770 billion zlotys, or 80,000 zlotys for every polish family, or not. you've already said that the reforms are a failure, it's just a question of the power of the prime minister and the head of the political camp over your own minister of justice. and on the altar of his ambition, poland is to lose 770 billion zlotys? either you control the ziobra or you end this spectacle. poland cannot afford your incompetence.
madam president! for years, we have witnessed a festival of violations of the fundamental principles of any democracy, violations of the rights of lgbtiq people, women, violations of judicial independence, freedom of the media, attacks on civil society. i don't think we've ever paid as much attention to another country in the european parliament as we have to poland. for many years parliament has called on the commission to act, and it is against poland that article 7 has been invoked for the first time in history. but let's face it, for years we have been losing the battle for eu values, the rule of law and human rights. and i don't think anyone can estimate the cost that we've already incurred and are still incurring. we no longer want to hear from the european commission a story about monitoring, analysing, recommending. we want the commission to finally start defending the rights of tens of millions of citizens of the european union. today's decision by the european court of justice takes away the last argument from the european commission to wait, and citizens are really tired of waiting.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! there are so many untruths, and frankly, so many lies, that i'm going to focus on one, the legal lie. well, i want to inform you, madam member, that article 7 has not been invoked against poland, and there is no risk of poland violating that article. so the rule of law mechanism was devised because there was no consensus and agreement in the council, because such conditions do not apply to poland. and it's not nice to lie like that. as for the conditionality mechanism and the understanding of this mechanism as an instrument to respect the fair spending of public funds, because that is how it was constructed and that is what the prime ministers agreed to at the july 2020 summit. we are of course in favour of not defrauding eu funds. and poland is an example of how to spend eu funds in a decent, solid, conscientious way. the state wants the conditionality mechanism to be a political instrument and is exerting undue pressure on the european commission to make the conditionality mechanism a de facto caricature of the rule of law.
madam president, today the luxembourg court of justice, by rejecting the appeal of hungary and poland, upheld the regulation which allows access to the union budget to be suspended if member states do not respect the principles of the rule of law, but only when such a violation seriously affects the proper execution of those budgets. however, when these violations of the rule of law do not directly affect the management of eu funds, what instruments does the union have to defend its values and fundamental principles? today we are all looking at hungary and poland, because they ignore the judgments of the luxembourg court. but do you know that the supreme court of spain, in 2020, refused to recognize the decision of the court of luxembourg of the previous year, on the basis of which this parliament recognized president puigdemont, clara ponsatí and myself as mps? when the polish or hungarian courts ignore the court of justice, these countries are sanctioned. but when the spanish supreme court does, nothing happens. however, this double standard only weakens the union and its raison d'être. the rule of law will only be saved if the commission and the council defend it in the same way in all the countries of the union. either he's saved everywhere or he won't be saved anywhere.
madam president, mr secretary of state, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, respect for the rule of law is a condition for a member state, for a country, to join the european union, it is not an option. and once you're in the european union, it's an obligation to respect the rule of law. our common ground, our european foundations, are values which we must protect, such as democracy, freedom, the separation of powers, the defence of human dignity. the regulation we adopted was in conformity with the treaties, that was our conviction and today's decision of the court of justice of the european union proves that we were right. there is no time to lose, commissioner, now is the time to implement the regulation. the conditionality in this regulation is intended to defend the european values it referred to and to protect the budget of the european union. we must make good use of the contributions of european citizens, while respecting the values of the union. this conditionality is unfortunately necessary in the face of signs of violation by some member states of the rule of law. i would like to conclude by insisting that this regulation must be applied.
madam president, this european parliament has been decisive in pushing forward the article 7 procedure, punishing the gross violation of the common values on which the european union is founded by hungary and poland. parliament was also instrumental in adopting the regulation on the conditionality of access to european funds in order to comply with the rule of law. it is time to recall that the judgment of the court of justice fully confirms this in its legal basis, its legal certainty and also in its distinct character from the article 7 procedure. one thing is conditionality and another is article 7. this is also the time to remind the french presidency, as i had the opportunity to do yesterday, that the regulation has never been suspended: it has been in force since 1 january 2021, although the commission has not applied it. in november, parliament decided to bring an action for failure to act before the court of justice against the commission, which is bound by the cross-compliance regulation. since the regulation came into force, the situation has only worsened in hungary and poland, as shown by the infamous hungarian law equating educational content on sexual orientation and homosexuality with paedophilia, or the polish government's action asking the constitutional court to declare primacy contrary to polish constitutional law. the primacy of european union law is the essential rule of our reason for being. i cannot end without saying that this european parliament is defending the hungarian and polish citizenship, as the commission is obliged to do, by now fully applying this conditionality regulation, to say with all clarity that by applying it we are defending the european citizenship of forty million poles and ten million hungarians.
madam president! in my view, this judgment of the cjeu confirms the views expressed some time ago by professor andreas voßkuhle, former president of the german federal constitutional court, that the cjeu is a court with a political agenda further centralisation of the union and in that spirit it interprets the treaties and creates secondary european law. we are now waiting to see whether the commission will act in accordance with this judgment and, in taking action against a member state, will try to show a real link between alleged irregularities in the application and functioning of the judiciary and the incorrect disbursement of eu funds, or whether the commission will, in breach of the rule of law, follow the ideological slogans that have been heard in this chamber and abuse its powers. and this is also a rule of law issue, because it also applies to the eu institutions, it applies also to the european parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. how can it be that in the 21st century, in the eu, poland and hungary, with the restructuring of their judicial systems, are so fundamentally restricting the fundamental rights of citizens? article 7 actually provides for that. i'm actually saying! the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the initiation of the investigation. i therefore welcome the fact that the european court of justice has today rejected the claims of poland and hungary against the rule of law mechanism. and the commission, mr hahn, is ultimately called upon to act. those who join the eu must respect its basic values, without any ifs and buts. there is no opt-out in the rule of law. and perhaps we should ask again, in the european union's own history, why member states have allowed this opt-out. in the conference on the future, citizens are quite rightly calling for the cross-compliance regulation to be amended to cover all breaches of the rule of law and for conferences on the rule of law to be organised, where member states are obliged to send socially diverse national delegations. let us have a constructive dialogue about this. let us listen to the recommendations of the citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european court of justice, as the highest judicial body, has made its sanctus clear with today's judgment on the new eu rule of law mechanism. all the claims were clearly, crystal clear, unmistakably dismissed. this is an important step forward and good news for the european union as a community of law and values, for the european parliament as the driving force and initiator of the rule of law mechanism together with the commission. the european union is a political union, and it is not a political union. the judgment confirms that the eu can impose sensitive financial sanctions and stop the disbursement of funds in case of violations of the rule of law. the european union is not a political decision, as poland and hungary are. the european court of justice has confirmed what is the basis of any accession procedure, namely the desire to become a member of a community of law and values. the eu rule of law mechanism must now be activated by the commission without delay. no one can hide behind anyone else anymore. the unanimity has also fallen, and a democratic majority is sufficient.
madam president! hey, writers, you can be really proud. you did this. in response to your continued violations of the law, the union has created a rule of law mechanism. thus, the people who break agreements have paradoxically contributed to raising the democratic standards of the union. i'm going to the hospital. now, seriously. look at the country you're leaving behind. a country without the giant european money. a country in debt and punished for destroying the rule of law. a country whose reputation you have tarnished on the international stage. you, because you're playing in putin's orchestra alongside marine le pen and orban. i know you'd rather the union didn't get involved in your shit. but the union is a connected vessel and must respond when the tripartite power structure is broken. because the people of poland want a state where such basic principles are respected. from this place, i call for regulations to be introduced that will allow the law and justice illegitimate government to be bypassed, so that european funds go directly to local governments and citizens.
madam chairman! it's over now. we're not gonna be the laughingstock of our own money anymore. today's decision by the european court of justice is a victory. it says that the eu has the right to throw money at member states that break the rules of the community and undermine democracy. the commission must now follow up as quickly as possible and activate the rule of law mechanism. there are no excuses left for hesitation. for too long, the heads of government in poland and hungary have laughed and raised eu aid with one hand, while the other has gradually hollowed out the judiciary or embezzled friends and family. but of course, it's not just about money. the future of the european community as a whole is at stake. it is the end of the community if the member states do not respect the decisions of the courts in such key areas as the rule of law in the european union. if hungary and poland want to be part of the club, they must accept the common rules they have signed up to. that is the simple answer, and the heads of state of other member states should give it their support by making clear statements now. and of course we also expect the commission to get down to business immediately. no more being made fun of for our own money!
i'm not going to let you get away with this. it's a very sad day. the treaty is signed, the sovereignty of the states is signed, and only because sovereign poland and hungary are the biggest obstacle to the emergence of a europe of the federalist dream with one government of unelected officials. you don't like the polish government, so you send an envoy who allegedly wants to overthrow our government, of course with the help of a very ineffective opposition. you're overstepping your bounds, playing with fake news, and above all, taking your own convenient interpretations of the law. you openly apply double standards, you curse poland and hungary, and at the same time you remain silent when human rights are violated in france and the netherlands. you're shouting about defending your values. what are your values? what are your values? because our conservatives, they're civilization of life, protecting the lives of innocent children, protecting and supporting the family, freedom of assembly, freedom of the internet. should we be punished for this because we don't want the values of supposedly progressive europeans, because we don't want judges who have charges or are convicted? what are we supposed to be worth? abortion, euthanasia, or surrogacy? as far as the legalization of surrogacy goes, yes, mrs. in 't veld, it's not a dispute over money, money is just blackmail and a stick. it's a crazy plan to implement the engineering of a new human. on this sad day, i have some sad news for you. we're just not gonna break.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am grateful to the commission for the support it has given to this debate. i honestly haven't counted how many times we've discussed this, obviously seven or eight times. it's also appropriate for the occasion. i don't want to say too much more about it. i'll be honest with you, if i were you, or if i were many of you, i'd probably have a similar impatience. and i have them. i don't want to disrupt that. but the commission and i as the commissioner responsible are obliged - especially when it comes to the rule of law - to uphold our own principles and to follow them with a hundred and fifty per cent accuracy. i have heard many times today in the statements - and i have listened very carefully everywhere - that there is no longer any reason for any excuse or delay on the part of the commission. let me be really clear here: there is absolutely no reason to assume that we are delaying anything or that we are just getting started. ladies and gentlemen, i would remind you that we drew up the guidelines last spring and invited you - and you did, as did the council - to give your opinion on them. we have developed them on the basis of this and now, as a result of the judgment, we can, so to speak, definitively develop these guidelines, which we do need. the rule of law implies that there is legal certainty as to how to proceed. and we have already started a process last year in which we asked two member states for clarification on various questions. we have recently received the answers. they're very large, they're very complex. it won't surprise you that in most of the points, the answer is 180 degrees different from what we asked. you have to look at it, you have to analyze it. we must also verify this again so that it is crystal clear here, if we take the next step, that we are taking a position which will then hold up in a court of law, in the european court of justice, if necessary. because you have rightly said that we must all share the same concern, or the majority of the house, that this instrument is an instrument that also works, that also acts. and that brings me to my second and final point: it has been said on several occasions today that the judgment of the european court of justice is affecting discussions, reflections, referenda on children's rights, etc. so that was not what this judgment was about at all, but what this judgment was about was to find that there is a new tool in the whole rule of law toolbox, namely the conditionality mechanism, which aims to ensure that if there are impediments involving the correct use of european taxpayers' money, this can be dealt with accordingly. so if there is corruption involved, this is the instrument that is used. and if there are other rule of law problems, there are other instruments. but when it comes to corruption, it's this instrument. but to prove corruption or misuse is a task which presents a challenge here and there, but which we are doing. and rest assured that we have not the slightest doubt and let doubt arise, that we do not pursue these things with sustainability and commitment. on the contrary, we are very keen to get to the bottom of these matters because we have every interest in seeing that taxpayers' money is used correctly, and also because we believe - and i believe rightly and with deep conviction - that this is a very important contribution to strengthening the confidence of the majority of the european population in the european institutions, in the european principles, in the european rules. and so i think i'm in the same boat with most of the house, that we pursue these things with tenacity. but i also ask you to understand and to understand that we must respect and pursue our own principles, our own principles of the rule of law. and i'm not impressed by any calendar dates. once things are clear, they will be implemented. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, and i would like to thank him for his reply. and together, i'm convinced that this will end up being a functioning, sustainable instrument. and together we will be able to use and implement it appropriately - as i said, in the interests of the european citizens.
president of the council. madam president, commissioner, commissioner hahn has summarised a number of points from the debate. i shall therefore be brief, simply to say that there are different views and different views on this subject. i confess to you: there will be some in the council too. however, i do not think we can distort reality and the facts. i just wanted to remind you of a few things. the court of justice has made a decision, and it binds us all. the court of justice has been clear: we must take up our institutional responsibilities. this is the case for the european commission. this is the case for the council in the next step. i think we need to do this quickly. now the decision has brought the expected and necessary clarifications. i believe that we should not use this debate to make national policy or the wrong polemic, or to have an approach that does not correspond to reality. we can think what we want of the debate that will follow. however, the rule of law is not an abstract or invented concept that is not to be found in our treaties. it is binding on all of us because it is specifically and explicitly set out in our treaties. it is on this basis that we must now move forward. we will therefore once again take on these institutional responsibilities in the council. i add political responsibility, which is the prerogative of a presidency, which sets an agenda. as far as france is concerned, we have a very clear programme, which was presented in this house by the president of the republic, emmanuel macron, a few weeks ago. we make the rule of law a priority for action, independently of this regulation. but this regulation, which we voted as co-legislators, will be part of that programme. i will add to this - as i have already said, i will therefore be brief - the continuing article 7 procedures, and the decisions of the court which it is responsible for taking in respect of certain procedures which it has initiated or which the commission has sometimes initiated. finally, we will have this political debate at the beginning of march, which i wanted to organise as a complement to the tools that bring us together today. i believe that we have an obligation, in any case, not to distort reality. the rule of law is our treaties, and treaties are the political acts that bring us together today. we must therefore move forward in this direction.
i thank mr beaune and, of course, all the colleagues who have taken part in this important debate. as i said, we will look at the film footage to make sure that there has not been a fascist salute in this chamber, because i want to stress once again that fascist symbols are incompatible and unacceptable in this chamber, because this is the home of european citizens, but also a living monument representing the victory of european citizens against the barbarity of nazism-fascism. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. it is regrettable that this court of justice decision reinforces the european union's rule of law conditionality mechanism. first, it is not clear what exactly this concept covers, at least in the sense in which it is understood in this context - would it include, for example, the primacy of eu law over national law? the consequences are no less drastic, since respect for the rule of law would depend, in particular, on the granting of all or part of certain european funds. secondly, these sanctions appear to be based on a relatively weak legal basis. finally, it is difficult not to perceive a link between this severity towards hungary and poland and the reservations expressed by these two states in terms of the reception of migrants. in short, the controversy over the rule of law confirms the authoritarian turn of the european union - all to impose a federal model on the body of defence of so many europeans.
in writing. the court of justice today rejected the complaints of poland and hungary concerning the budgetary conditionality mechanism. it thus confirmed that respect for the rule of law in the member states is closely linked to the protection of the financial interests of the union. the eppo should be able to provide the necessary information to the competent authorities of the member states in order to ensure that the investigation is carried out in accordance with the applicable law. the court also held that respect for the rule of law is not only a criterion which member states must fulfil when they join the union. this obligation shall be applicable at all times and shall apply equally to all member states. the cjeu here draws an important line from the case-law it initiated in the republic. it follows that respect for common values by a member state is a condition for the exercise of rights conferred by the application of the treaties. the eu has a long tradition of providing a high level of protection for citizens and businesses. this is an important safeguard against an authoritarian regime that might try to change the constitution by blocking further integration. significantly, in response to the ruling of the cjeu, the politicized tk started yesterday to examine the constitutionality of the eu treaty in order to limit the application of the conditionality mechanism. pis is once again seeking to limit the primacy of eu law in poland. if the pis thinks that this principle does not apply to poland, it means that the pis does not see poland in the union.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! equality between men and women is one of the fundamental principles of the union. it's also the foundation of how society works. in a perfect world, we wouldn't have this debate, but unfortunately, that's not the world we live in. today we must see and name what is happening before our eyes. the challenges we face today, which cannot wait until tomorrow, need to be addressed today. they need, i would say, a revolution, a revolution with a woman's face. it's women who are the initiators of positive change. women are the ones who prevent conflict, they are the ones who seek to resolve conflict, they are the ones who seek peace, because they are the ones who bear the greatest cost of all the negative changes. women today need to be leaders of social change, setting an example for the younger generation of girls, to be a warm-up for the fight, to be a teacher and an inspiration. unfortunately, there's a lot to do. inequality is still the rule, not the infamous exception. as a result of climate change, women are losing their jobs, they are less competitive in the labour market, they are taking on the role of carers for the elderly and the neglected. very often they have no choice but to accept their fate, and at the same time they are increasingly anxious about the future of their offspring. in 2015, at the so-called paris agreement, which made one of the most important decisions on climate change, only 9 percent of women headed national delegations. that's way too little. and if the effects of climate disaster are going to be felt more by women, shouldn't that mean that they should have as much, if not more, to say about supporting climate action as men? shouldn't they be more in control of their own destiny? sometimes peace must be won through revolution, but revolution doesn't always have to be destructive, it can be the foundation of a new world. and i'll tell you one thing, believe me, he may have a woman's face.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, it is not serious to propose a text at the last minute that lacks legal rigor and internal logic, without time to make amendments. it mixes women with gender ideology and climate change with a logic that is impossible to decipher. what does effective gender-transformative climate action mean, for example? can anyone understand what we're talking about? this is crazy. return to reality and come down from the climatic clouds where you are installed. the european union must not be used as a conduit for globalist movements promoted by the united nations. take care of the real problems. we played a lot. they get their common sense back if they really want to support women or the environment. and forget these ideologies that corrupt human reason and hope.
mr president, climate change affects everyone: women, men, boys and girls. but unfortunately it affects them in different ways. systemic discrimination has led to gender-differentiated impacts of climate change with respect to food security, health, livelihoods and even the deterioration of human rights, including sexual and reproductive health rights, making women the ones to pay the highest price. therefore, the procrastination must finally end. we must recognise that gender-responsive climate action goes hand-in-hand with the just transition by promoting inclusive opportunities for all in the green economy. our policies connected with the green transition need to take into account gender-specific needs and should not negatively affect women, girls and people facing intersectional discrimination. i am glad that our committee, as every year, will participate in this meeting. in this regard, we have to ensure that this parliament and the femm committee will be fully involved in the decision-making process regarding the eu’s position at the 66th session, and in particular that our resolution is included in the final eu negotiating position. we are representing the second-largest world democracy by population. we are the champions in so many issues. therefore, we have obligations and responsibilities. we should have the ambition to lead for a better, equal and more just life for many girls and women around the world.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the covid-19 pandemic, which has been wreaking havoc on health and the economy for more than two years, has clearly demonstrated the importance of tackling socioeconomic and territorial disparities and the need for harmonised and coordinated action at eu level to bring real relief to the economy. while the schengen area is widely seen as one of the european union's major achievements, the pandemic has led most member states to move away from the free movement of people. internal border controls, border closures and the introduction of temporary quarantine restrictions for travellers have had a dramatic impact on the number of travellers. the freedom to move and reside within the european union is one of the most important foundations of citizenship, and its main beneficiaries are the tourism and transport ecosystem and its core of small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been particularly affected by the restrictions related to the covid pandemic. welcomes the fact that the newly presented recommendation on a coordinated approach to facilitate safe travel during the pandemic uses a status-based approach in the pan-european digital covid certificate; this will undoubtedly simplify the rules in force in all countries and provide travellers with additional transparency and consistency on sanitary restrictions, which is particularly important for the aviation sector, as it is the rebuilding of confidence among travellers that is essential to restore demand for air and travel services, and a strategic approach that encourages travel and gives passengers a sense of security is crucial in this case.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. my dear colleagues! the statistics on occupational cancer are still staggering, and behind every one of these statistics are people who lose their lives and their health. more than half of work-related deaths are caused by cancer, and many work-related cancers are also preventable. it is therefore our duty to make every effort to ensure that the right tools are in place to fight occupational cancer, and to make this fight more effective. the final text, which presents a well-crafted agreement, is just such a tool and another important step forward in the fight against cancer. updating the occupational exposure limit values and including dangerous medicinal products are key elements of the text that will set the tone for the fight against cancer for years to come. those dangerous medicinal products pose a particular risk to healthcare professionals, who have been subject to an unprecedented burden during the pandemic. protecting them must be a priority for recovery and learning from the pandemic. at the same time, it must be borne in mind that european businesses and industry will need the resources and time to implement the new ambitious requirements in an effective, appropriate and sustainable way. i therefore wish to stress once again the crucial role of transitional periods in adjusting to the new rules. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the co-rapporteurs for their very good work.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. fellow workers! the problem we're talking about doesn't require an original approach, but iron-clad consistency. if 40% of work-related cancers can be prevented, it should be done as soon as possible. in the light of the demographic crisis europe is facing, the issue of re-toxicants such as bisphenol a, copper oxide, lead and mercury is of particular concern. workers are often exposed to a mixture of chemical agents at work which may cause reduced fertility or infertility or adversely affect foetal development and lactation. we therefore support the extension of the directive to these substances in addition to carcinogens and mutagens. the report also rightly emphasises the aspect of dangerous substances that healthcare workers are exposed to. the most vulnerable are mobile, posted and migrant workers, who are employed in large numbers in the steel, chemical and cleaning sectors.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, colleagues, unlike some of you in this chamber, i actually think that, at least historically, there were cases where the death penalty was fair and just. in poland, we had the case of rudolf höss, the commander of auschwitz, where he killed over a million people with zyklon b. poland brought him back to auschwitz and, in april 1947, he was hanged. i challenge anybody to tell us that we did the wrong thing. it’s relevant to iran because, at least for the clerical regime, the holocaust is still a controversial matter. it did happen and one of its perpetrators got his just desserts. but in iran, you can get the death penalty, at least according to wikipedia, for homosexuality, burglary, incestuous relationships, fornication, sexual misconduct, prostitution, political dissidence, sabotage, apostasy, adultery, blasphemy, speculation, disrupting production, recidivist consumption of alcohol, pornography, cowardice, waging war against god, and spreading corruption on earth, whatever that is. iran is believed to execute the most people per capita in the world, and this is a country which of course doesn’t have a fair or independent judiciary. i would appeal to the leaders of iran, but the president of iran was a member of the death commission in the 1988 massacre, in which 30 000 political prisoners were murdered, judicially. there are political prisoners in iran who had dared merely to ask about that massacre, people like maryam akbari monfared, qolam-hossein kalbi, saeed massouri, afshin baeemani, saeed shahghal-eh. mr raisi, the fate of these people is a testimony to your status as a butcher and you will be punished for it, in this world or the next.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my country poland, as a member of the european union and the council of europe, is committed to the abolition of the death penalty worldwide. the aim is to oppose the execution of the death penalty or, as a first step, to introduce a moratorium. we support calls for the widest possible ratification of the second additional protocol to the international covenant on civil and political rights. we therefore actively promote and lobby for the resolution presented by the european union every two years to the third committee of the un general assembly in favour of a moratorium on the death penalty. in view of the inherent dignity of every human being, it is particularly difficult for us to accept that in many countries the death penalty can still be imposed on a child or a mentally handicapped person or for reasons such as belonging to a religious minority. we are also deeply concerned about the imposition of the death penalty as a sanction for certain forms of conduct such as apostasy, blasphemy or adultery. iran is a beautiful country, a country full of beautiful and good people. poland experienced this heart of the persians, the iranians after the second world war, when more than 120,000 of our citizens found support and support among the iranians. this resolution that we are debating today brings closer the day when peace and the rule of law will return to iran.
madam president, the current political crisis unfolding in burkina faso is deeply concerning. the instability of the last few months has caused untold suffering to the people of burkina faso and led to a considerable loss of life. the appointment of military leader damiba as president following a coup on 24 january, as well as the placing of elected president kaboré under house arrest, raises serious questions about the state of democracy in the region. indeed, it is a worrying trend that burkina faso joins the ranks of six other african nations who have experienced a coup in the last 18 months. attacks carried out by insurgents and terrorists, such as the november attack in which 53 police officers lost their lives, have become an all too familiar part of life in the country. this humanitarian crisis has been ongoing for many years, and it is estimated that more than 1.6 million people have been displaced in the country since 2015. recent events, however, have led to a dramatic escalation in political instability and human suffering. as eu leaders meet with representatives of the african union this week in brussels – a very important meeting – it is imperative that europe works together with its partners in africa to promote democratic processes across the continent. it is therefore essential that president kaboré be released from house arrest and the elected government of burkina faso reinstated, to put a stop to this deepening political and humanitarian crisis. a reasonable timetable mapping the return to civilian rule must now be a priority for the region. the european union should offer every assistance it can to its partners in africa in this regard. democracy is the only way forward for burkina faso. hope we can get it.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! the situation in burkina faso is dramatic. there's a military junta in power, and the violence escalates. thousands of deaths are recorded. last year alone, 1.5 million people were internally displaced -- they had to leave all their possessions behind. children and women are particularly vulnerable to violence and sexual exploitation among internally displaced persons. please note that there is an increase in the criminal activity of human trafficking. this is all happening in burkina faso in the 21st century. women are at risk of extreme poverty. what is to be done? first, increase financial support and humanitarian aid to meet the most urgent needs. but it is time for the union to act, to learn from its commitments to implement a system of control and tracing of arms exports. this junta has weapons to which it has unlimited access, and hence this escalation of violence.
madam president, madam commissioner, i reiterate in this house my firm condemnation of the coup d'état in burkina faso, a condemnation which i have already expressed as president of the european parliament's delegation to the acp-eu joint assembly in various instances. i welcome the recent decisions by the african union and the heads of state and government of the economic community of west african states (ecowas) to suspend burkina faso from all its organs and activities until constitutional order is restored in the country. president kabore and the members of his government who are detained must be immediately and unconditionally released. the military junta must prepare for the swift restoration of the exercise of full power to a legitimate government. the recent proclamation of the man responsible for the military coup as president of the country cannot distract burkina faso from the essential task of ensuring the urgent restoration of the rule of law and ensuring a government based on free and fair elections. the humanitarian situation in burkina faso is worrying. more than one and a half million people have been displaced, more than half the country's schools have been closed, more than two and a half million people are at risk of severe hunger, and insecurity and the glaring limitations on the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens are undermining the daily life of this sahel country. the european union must therefore seriously consider punitive measures against the entities destabilising and creating the situation in burkina faso, without affecting, of course, humanitarian aid or projects that directly help civil society. and in this way we can send a clear signal of uncompromising defence of the rule of law, democratic elections and the need to bring stability to the country and peace to the sahel region, which has been living in an environment of instability and a constant terrorist threat.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. fellow workers! i was in burkina faso. i remember my conversations with the europeans who had lived there for years. i asked about the relationship between the christian majority and the muslim minority. i heard the answer, "everything's fine". a week after i left, the first islamic terrorist attack took place. i think that you can't understand this coup d'état, which is evil, without understanding islamic terrorism. this terrorism showed the weakness of the army, the army that was frustrated. and i think that was one of the main reasons for this coup. he is, of course, an evil that must be condemned. what is happening in burkina faso, as well as in other sahel countries, is also (and this is perhaps less talked about in this room) part of the game being played by russia, which exports weapons there, but also offers its services, the services of those famous wagner soldiers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the coup in burkina faso is, of course, another setback for the positive development in the sahel. we certainly did not wish that. and of course, there are questions about your own commitment, your own investment, whether it's worth it. and i want to say very briefly and clearly, yes, we have to stay on the ball. we must not bury our heads in the sand and perhaps leave a country or a region and perhaps let it down. of course, the important elements we have here - the expansion of democracy, human rights and, above all, positive socioeconomic development - are needed if we are to create a fertile soil for citizens to reconcile with their state. and i didn't mention the fight against terrorism. of course, at the end of the day, it all gets a little bit longer, it gets a little bit more complicated, but we're not paid for simple things here, either. that is why we should tackle this problem. yesterday, the head of the junta said in his own staged introduction, and i quote: 'i swear in front of the people of burkina faso and on my honour, to preserve and respect, to uphold and defend the constitution, fundamental acts and the law, to do everything to guarantee justice for all the inhabitants of burkina faso.' i can only say that i congratulate you on your work. and i'll tell you the secret of how you can best do that: by returning power to the democratically legitimate government in burkina faso.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. africa is a beautiful and proud continent, but it is also a continent that is constantly torn by unrest. this time, the coup d'état has reached burkina faso. a country that has struggled for years to maintain macroeconomic stability and security has found itself at a crossroads once again. on one side, the military junta and russian mercenaries from wagner's group are actively involved in the coup, but on the other side, attacks on christians and religious unrest that could escalate into another bloody religious conflict similar to the one that has been going on for years in nigeria. the parliamentary resolution described in detail the problems of security and the participation of foreign mercenary groups. however, it lacks references to and condemnations of subsequent attacks on christians in burkina faso. in the last few days alone, there have been several major incidents, including the desecration of the st. kizito seminary. they're backed by radical islamic organizations. the same ones who are trying to destabilise burkina faso internally. the union's financial contribution to the union's macro-financial assistance shall be limited to eur 50000000 for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015.
madam president, just reading the text on this, and it says every day the eu’s food supply chain provides 450 million people in the eu with high quality food. but as with everything, the devil is in the detail. in europe, we import more calories than we export to the world. and still we claim we are feeding the world. this policy leaves us unnecessarily exposed at times of crisis and bobbing around in an ocean of uncertainty when it comes to input prices. ireland, which also claims to be feeding the world, can’t even feed itself. we import our main food stuffs: carrots, potatoes, wheat, sugar – i could go on. the value of ireland’s food energy net importing calories has at times exceeded the equivalent of the calorie intake of two and a half million people. we can’t even feed the type of livestock that we produce, so we import proteins. there’s talk, and that’s all it is, that we should produce our proteins in europe. only last week i noticed another tillage farm in ireland converting to dairy, a dairy farm that will require imported protein. what could go wrong? we’ve also created a system whereby those that produce the food get nothing whereas those companies that process it and sell it take all the profit. even at that, their greed isn’t satiated. even then, they move these companies to places like luxembourg in order to avoid paying tax. the money never gets back to the community it was created in and as a result we have a broken system. thanks for nothing glanbia! the system is broken. not for the rich though, and that’s why it will never be bloody well fixed.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i really appreciate this opportunity to exchange views in this house on the challenges for our food system in the midst of this commodity price surge. the prevention of and response to market crises and negative impacts of the current input price on consumers, agriculture and the food sector requires both short-term and long-term solutions. the commission and the member states have several measures in our respective toolboxes, and the commission will closely monitor the evolvement of energy, commodity and food prices in the coming months.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i think we're discussing an important issue too late. in bulgaria, we call this "after the rain, hood". the commission will now examine and consider what some politicians like to do - it will analyse what and how to do it. it is worth noting that national governments have been able to respond much more quickly and adequately to the challenges. rising raw material and electricity prices and galloping inflation are putting pressure on farmers and this is affecting the end user. we've gotten to the point that in bulgaria, it's a luxury to make a salad with tomatoes and cucumbers, because the price of tomatoes and cucumbers is competing with the price of meat, for example. but all of this is the result of insane green policies, unspeakable lobbying and wrong decisions made over the years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for six months now, energy prices have been soaring, businesses have been closing, waiting for better times, and there's been no response from the commission. i do not believe that this european commission can present a sensible political solution to the questions raised.
i will now move to the results of the second voting session of today, 17 february 2022. (the president read out the results of the votes) 1_____________1 see minutes for details
the minutes of the sittings of 14 to 17 february will be submitted to parliament for its approval at the beginning of its next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward forthwith the resolutions adopted at these sittings to the persons and bodies named in the resolutions.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 17 february 2022.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sittings of 14, 15, 16 and 17 february 2022 are available. are there any comments? i see that there are not. the minutes are approved.
the id and ecr groups have notified the president of decisions relating to appointments and changes within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the final draft agenda as drawn up pursuant to rule 157 by the conference of presidents at its meeting of 24 february 2022 has been distributed. following consultations with the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposal for changes to the final draft agenda: today, the debate on russian aggression against ukraine will be held in the format of european council, council and commission statements and will be extended until 15.30 this afternoon. the announcement of the results of the first voting session will be held at 15.00. the second voting session will start at 15.30 and end at 16.15. finally, the announcement of the results of the second voting session will be held at 17.15. i see that there are no objections, and therefore i declare that this change has been approved and the agenda is therefore deemed adopted and the order of business is thus established.
i will now move to today’s first voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 12.00 until 12.45. the same voting method will be used as during the last part-sessions. all votes will be held by roll call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. explanations of vote containing up to a maximum of 400 words will be accepted. i declare the voting session open. you have until 12.45 to vote. the debate with the european council, council and commission statements on russian aggression against ukraine will start at 12.30, and the results of the votes will be announced at 15.00. i encourage you to stay in the room and also call your colleagues to join us here. we will, as you know, not only have a very strong presence of ukrainian citizens and their representatives in our gallery, but also interventions by president zelenskyy and the speaker of the parliament of ukraine, of the verkhovna rada, ruslan stefanchuk. i look forward to seeing you at 12.30. (the sitting was suspended at 12.03)
good afternoon. we are here today in the dark shadow cast by putin’s war. a war we did not provoke. a war we did not start. an outrageous invasion of a sovereign, independent state. on behalf of the european parliament, i condemn the russian military aggression against ukraine in the strongest possible terms and express my solidarity with all those suffering and all those killed. (loud and sustained applause) the message from europe is clear: we will stand up. we will not look away when those fighting in the streets for our values face down putin’s massive war machine. we will support the international criminal court’s jurisdiction and investigation of war crimes in ukraine. we will hold him accountable, just as we will hold lukashenko. we are facing an existential threat to the europe we know, the europe so many have given so much for. and this is why, on this important day, i am pleased to announce that president zelenskyy will address us shortly, followed by speaker ruslan stefanchuk, the chair of the rada of ukraine. and allow me also to extend a special welcome to the ambassador of ukraine and the ukrainian people present in plenary today. (loud and sustained applause)mr president, thank you for showing the world what it means to stand up. thank you for reminding us about the dangers of complacency. everyday acts of extraordinary heroism by ukrainians inspire us all. defence forces and citizens making the ultimate sacrifice to delay a column of tanks. senior citizens standing up to face down russian troops with nothing but pride and sunflowers as their weapon. brave women forced to give birth in metro stations next to their kalashnikovs. they showed the world that our way of life is worth defending. it is worth a cost. all those who remember living under occupation will attest to that. all those standing up in belarus. all those looking to us in moldova, in georgia. it is worth it. for us, for the next generation, for all those in ukraine and around the world who believe in europe and in our way. and for all those who want to be free. our european response was on display over the last very painful days. this must be our ‘whatever it takes’ moment. neighbouring states have accepted hundreds of thousands of fleeing ukrainians. europeans sheltered ukrainians in their homes. we have implemented a series of unprecedented, massive sanctions. we have gone further and will provide much—needed weapons to ukraine. we have declared that russian aircraft and oligarchs’ private jets are no longer welcome in our open skies. we have moved for russia to be disconnected from the swift system. (applause)we have banned kremlin propaganda tools. european citizens, organisations, businesses, sports have taken a clear and forceful stand, underlining that they will not deal with or welcome an aggressor. and europe stands ready to go further still. we recognise ukraine’s european perspective and as our resolution clearly states, we welcome, mr president, ukraine’s application for candidate status, and we will work towards that goal. (loud applause)because we will and we must face the future together. mr president, we stand with you in your fight for survival, in this dark moment in our history. when you look to this european parliament you will always find an ally, a space to address europe and the world, and always, always a friend. this european parliament has a long, proud history of being a thorn in the side of autocrats, and in this spirit i will seek a ban on any representative of the kremlin from entering european parliament premises. (loud applause)because aggressors and warmongers have no place in the house of democracy. dear president, dear members, let me finish by setting out four important principles for our future. first of all, europe can no longer remain reliant on kremlin gas. (applause)we need to redouble our efforts to diversify our energy systems towards a europe that is no longer at the behest of autocrats. this will put our energy security on a stronger footing. secondly, europe can no longer welcome kremlin cash and pretend that there are no strings attached. putin’s oligarchs and those who bankroll him should no longer be able to use their purchasing power to hide behind a veneer of respectability in our cities, in our communities or in our sports clubs. their super yachts should find no harbour in our europe. (loud applause)and we can no longer sell passports to putin’s friends, allowing them to circumvent our security. no more. thirdly, investment in our defence must match our rhetoric. europe must move to have a real security and defence union. (applause)we have shown last week that it is possible and desirable, and more than anything, it is necessary. and fourthly, we must fight the kremlin’s disinformation campaign. i call on social media and tech conglomerates to take their responsibility seriously and to understand that there is no being neutral between the fire and the fire brigade. president michel, president von der leyen, high representative borrell, thank you for ensuring european unity and commitment in facing this threat. i know that all of us, all the members of this house, will take the united message of europe back to our constituencies. president zelenskyy, thank you. we are together now. we will be together in the future because we are with ukraine. (the house accorded the president a standing ovation)
president of ukraine. – (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from ukrainian into english) madam president, you know, over the last couple of days i have not known how to greet anybody properly, because i can’t say ‘good’ morning, ‘good’ afternoon or ‘good’ evening. this is absolutely true, because for some people every day is definitely not ‘good’. for some people, this day is their last. i speak today now about my citizens – the citizens of ukraine – who are manning the walls and defending freedom and paying the ultimate price. i’m very pleased with what i’ve seen here – this unifying mood. i’m happy that we have brought together all the countries of the european union today, but i did not know at what cost. this is a tragedy for me, for every ukrainian and for every state – thousands of people killed, two revolutions, one war and five days of full-scale invasion by the russian federation. i’m not reading from a sheet of paper, because the paper phase in the life of my country has ended. now we are dealing with reality. those people who died – this is real life. i believe that today we are giving our lives for values, for rights, for freedom, for the desire to be equal, just like you are – just like every human is. we are losing our best, our strongest and our most valuable people. ukrainians are incredible. we often love to say that we will prevail over everyone, and i’m very happy that you are not only talking about it, but you can also see it. i am convinced that we will indeed prevail over everyone. there is an expression, ‘ukraine chooses europe’. that’s what we have been striving for, and that’s where we are have been and are still headed. i would very much like to hear you say to us that europe now chooses ukraine. i have a few moments to talk with you now since there is a lull in missile strikes and bombardments. this morning was a very tragic one for us. two cruise missiles hit kharkiv, a city located close to the border with the russian federation. there were always many russians there, and the people have always been friendly and had warm relations. there are over 20 universities there. it’s the city that has the highest number of universities in our country. the youth there is bright and smart. they have always gathered and continue to gather there to celebrate all the festivals in the largest square in our country, freedom square, which is also the largest square in europe. yes, it is truly called freedom square. can you imagine that, this morning, two cruise missiles hit freedom square? dozens were killed. this is the price of freedom. we’re fighting for our land and for our freedom. despite the fact that all large cities of our country are now blocked off, nobody is going to come in and interfere with our freedom and our country. believe you me – every square in every city of our country from today on, no matter what it’s called, is going to be called freedom square. nobody is going to break us. we are strong. we are ukrainians. we have a desire to see our children live. i believe this to be a fair one. yesterday, 16 children were killed. president putin will say yet again that it’s some kind of operation and that they are hitting military infrastructure where our children happen to be. what kind of military factories are they working at? are they riding around in tanks or launching cruise missiles? you killed 16 people just yesterday! our nation is extremely motivated. we are fighting for our rights, for our freedoms and for our lives. now we’re fighting for our survival, and this is our highest motivation, but we’re also fighting to be equal members of europe. today, i believe that we are all showing the world exactly what we’re made of. the european union will be much stronger with us – that’s for sure. without you, ukraine will be alone. we have proven our strength. we have proven that, at the very least, we are exactly the same as you are. so prove that you are with us. prove that you will not abandon us. prove that you are indeed europeans, and then life will prevail over death and light will prevail over darkness. glory to ukraine! (the house accorded the president a standing ovation)
thank you very much for your strong message, president, for your bravery and for your conviction. i will now give the floor now to the speaker of the ukraine parliament, ruslan stefanchuk, for his intervention.
speaker of the verkhovna rada of ukraine. – (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from ukrainian into english) first of all, i would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to address the european parliament. i would also like to say, look behind me. you see the same shots that the whole world sees today. eight years ago, the ukrainian people categorically said no to russian aggression, to their attempt to change their eternal path home – to the united european union and to the very successful process of unification that it has demonstrated over all these years. instead, our rights to develop and to be a democratic state that chooses its own path has been completely laid waste by a country that doesn’t respect international law or international principles, that disdains territorial integrity and sovereignty. you see the results of that today very clearly in the number of people killed and wounded. you are aware that the aggressor carried out a full-scale attack on kharkiv. today other cities are under constant attack. i believe that this is a crossroads in the history of europe. europe is now fighting against an aggressor, and it is very important how the united european community responds to this challenge of savagery and barbarism. dear members, i know you will be looking at a whole range of serious economic sanctions that you will adopt against the aggressor. i would like you to understand that today ukraine is defending the border of the civilised world. if, god forbid, ukraine falls, nobody knows where the russian aggressor will stop. when i was in my official suit and we were working in the verkhovna rada, we were adopting very important reformist laws, but just today i had to go down to the basement four times, because enemy planes are flying over my one-and-a-half thousand year old city, dropping bombs and firing missiles. they are doing everything to break the ukrainian spirit, but this will not happen. think for a moment about what will happen to europe if the terrible russian empire is restored. would the european union be able to protect this space of freedom, which it has created over the last dozens of years? what will happen in eastern european countries now when russian tanks approach their borders? to what other regions will the kremlin look after it has conquered ukraine? i would like to call upon you to think strategically, to support the unity of the european union, to support ukraine, to make it a strategic partner and – most importantly – to act. don’t be silent. gather all your efforts and show that europe today is more unified than ever before, because the threat today is greater than ever. the best support for the people of ukraine in their darkest hours would be the immediate recognition of our membership of the european union. membership of the european union – even before these events that started on 24 february – was supported by the majority of ukrainians. our mandate is to have a relationship with you, with the european union, because the ukrainian people have made their choice. i am calling upon all the member states and the leadership of the european union to support candidate status for ukraine, which is now supported by the whole of ukraine. you know that volodymyr zelenskyy has already signed a letter with our application for membership, pursuant to article 49 of the treaty on european union. dear friends, this motion for a resolution of the european parliament contains a whole range of sanctions that you plan to impose on the aggressor. i would call on you to support them. let us together refute winston churchill’s famous saying that ‘we live in an era of big events and small people’. i know for sure that ukraine is a great country of great people, and they have proved this over the past six days. let us be worthy of those people who are dying right now for the european union, for the future of our european home. let us understand that there cannot be peace in europe without ukraine. europe cannot be whole without ukraine. glory to ukraine! thank you for your attention. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
mr speaker, thank you for your words, for your courage and for your commitment to peace and parliamentary democracy. i give the floor now to the president of the european council, charles michel, for his statement.
president of the european council. madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the european commission, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, dear president of ukraine, dear volodymyr zelensky, dear president of the ukrainian parliament, the words you have spoken pierce our souls and hearts and make us realize the gravity and seriousness of the moment, the gravity and seriousness of the stakes, the gravity and seriousness of the decisions we are going to have to take together because, once again, blood and war are on european soil. five days ago, vladimir putin launched a brutal, massive invasion of ukraine, an unjustified and unprovoked war based on despicable lies. he did it only for one reason because you, dear volodymyr zelenskyy, you, dear people of ukraine in maidan, you made the choice of freedom, democracy and rule of law. dear colleagues, it is not only ukraine that is under attack. international law, the rules-based international order, democracy and human dignity are also under attack. this is geopolitical terrorism, pure and simple. we must support ukraine, and you are we are supporting ukraine. we must protect peace. we must protect democracy and international law. ladies and gentlemen, our transatlantic alliance is strong, united, perfectly coordinated and we are also working closely with the members of the g7 and with the united nations. more and more countries are engaging in an anti-war coalition, along with people from around the world with one common message: russia, stop the war. go home. let's talk about it! we are putting maximum pressure on russia and its leaders. we are stepping up to support ukraine and the ukrainian people. i salute, with all of you, president zelenskyy and the brave people of ukraine for their courage and composure. it is also our duty to rise to this historic moment. ladies and gentlemen, we promised together that we would react quickly, that the consequences for russia would be massive and severe, and our actions have matched our words. we have responded with massive and unprecedented sanctions. we have imposed sanctions on political and military leaders, on oligarchs, on vladimir putin, on sergey lavrov. we are also taking powerful measures to severely restrict the use of the foreign currency reserve of the russian central bank. we are excluding key russian banks from the swift system, and we are also imposing severe sanctions on key sectors of russia's economy. however, ladies and gentlemen, we must be honest and frank with each other: these sanctions will also mean a cost for ourselves and we must bear it, because what is at stake are our values, our convictions and our common future. ladies and gentlemen, supporting ukraine is of course a matter of mobilizing financial resources. we are doing it, we will continue to do it and we are calling for an international donor conference. it is to be engaged especially with our member states on the direct borders, which are going to be confronted - and are already confronted - by people fleeing war and seeking refuge, a safe haven. it will be europe's honour and dignity to show our solidarity with the ukrainians and with all those who are called upon to shoulder this responsibility. of course, solidarity will also be expressed through military means of defence, which are and will be delivered. this is why, this saturday morning, in full coordination with the high representative, we decided to activate the european peace facility, with the approval of the member states, to support these defensive military assets which are necessary for the resistance efforts of the ukrainian people. ladies and gentlemen, a few moments ago president zelensky looked us in the eye, opened his heart and mentioned this announcement, which is now officially addressed to us: the request for recognition by the european union of ukraine's candidate status. it will be up to us europeans to rise to the occasion. of course, we know that this is a difficult subject, because it concerns enlargement, and we know that there are different opinions within the european union, which can sometimes be nuanced on this subject. the european commission will be responsible for delivering an opinion, from which the council will not escape its responsibilities. the council will have to analyse seriously the symbolic, political, strong and, i believe, legitimate demand that has been made. it will then be necessary to give the right direction and make the right choices, with calmness and determination in the face of this request which is being expressed today face to face and with an emotion that touches each and every one of us. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by saying that when this war was started, vladimir putin certainly thought that he would break up european unity and he was wrong. probably thought he'd be faced with inaction, passivity and finding excuses for not making a decision and he was wrong. when he started this action, he probably imagined that in a few moments he would take control of ukraine and he was wrong, because the ukrainian people, with bravery and courage, are resisting. he probably imagined that by carrying out this attack, he would also be dealing a severe, perhaps even fatal blow to what we embody: democracy, freedom and the rule of law. let's make sure he's wrong about that, too. as i stand before you today, i am thinking of these words of general de gaulle, and i would like to quote him, who said in 1961: 'every step backwards has the effect of overexciting the aggressor, of pushing him to redouble his pressure, and ultimately facilitates his assault. in sum, the western powers have no better way of serving world peace than to remain upright and steadfast. 'straight and firm' is exactly the position of president volodymyr zelensky, and it is also the position we must adopt. to be upright and firm and to see in the face, in the eyes and in the voice of volodymyr zelensky the voice, the face and the light of freedom, hope, security, stability and european values.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. president of the european parliament, president of the european council, president of the european commission, president zelensky, president of the ukrainian parliament, dear members of the european parliament, i will try to share with you my thoughts on the meaning of the tragic events we are living through and the provisional lessons we can draw from them, especially for the common security and defence policy, which i had the honour of trying to develop and which remains an intergovernmental policy - a policy which is still in the hands of the member states, but which cannot be implemented efficiently without strong cooperation with the commission's competences. i think this is the moment in which the geopolitical europe is being born. it is the birth of geopolitical europe, the moment when we become aware of the challenges we face, the moment when europe must face its responsibilities, the moment when we become aware that, for the first time since the end of the second world war, one country is invading another and that country has nuclear weapons, which increases its capacity for intimidation. it makes me sick to think of the historical parallel between these events and the beginning of world war ii. but it is really the return of tragedy that europe is facing today. the return of tragedy, far from frightening us, should galvanize us. firstly, because it belies the idea that the european project had lost its momentum because the horizon of war has faded, when unfortunately it has not. this reminds us that evil, tragedy and war never fade away. this is about the relationship with war, with the use of force, with violence, that we have been debating here for years to find out if europe can counter. this is why in recent years we have talked more about defence issues, studying the past, and we have begun to set up joint military programmes. that is why the european parliament itself voted to set up the european defence fund and the member states have created the european peace facility which we are now mobilising in order to provide arms to ukraine. the european council, in the coming weeks, will adopt the strategic compass and, with the invasion of ukraine by russia, we must amplify our reflection, adjust our means and anticipate our responses because one of the lessons that we have to learn from the invasion of ukraine is that, more than ever, europe must think strategically about itself, its environment and the world. this is no longer a luxury, it is a necessity. europe must amplify its reflection on security issues and the european parliament has had an important role to play in this regard. we need to think about the instrument of coercion, retaliation and counterattack in the face of reckless adversaries, because all we need to understand is that to make peace, we need to be two but to make war it is enough to be one. this is exactly what mr. putin is telling us, and that's why we have to increase our deterrence capacity a lot. we need to increase our deterrence capacity in order to prevent war. (applause) i would like to thank you. it's clear that our deterrence has not been strong enough to stop mr. putin's aggression. but since this aggression has begun, we have reacted in the last few days in a way that mr. putin did not expect. we are showing him that we will never sacrifice our freedom and the freedom of others on the altar of our well-being and prosperity. as president of this parliament in 2007, i had the opportunity to tell mr putin this face to face, in the aftermath of the killing of the journalist, anna politkovskaya. i told him we're not going to trade human rights for your gas, and this is the moment to repeat and act on that. (applause) we will not share in that and we will not abandon the defence of our human rights and freedoms just because we are more or less dependent on russia, and we have to start working quickly - as the commission has proposed - in order to cancel this dependence. last saturday, after having held another foreign affairs council and attending the debate in the european union council, i was talking to you, president michel, and you said to me: 'are we doing everything we can? is there something more that we can do? is that enough? i was so, so powerless. you told me: "think, do, act". we have to push member states to adopt a decision on swift and to take russia out of the financial system and think about how we can arm ukraine not country by country, one after another, in an uncoordinated manner. you encouraged me to talk to the member states again, and in a few hours we agreed to use the european peace facility in order to bring financial support and coordinate member states on arming the ukrainian army and people. in less than 24 hours another taboo had fallen. (applause) the president of the commission, immediately showing strong leadership, started working together to get an agreement with our international partners in order to make it possible to switch off russia from the financial system. and you know what? now, half of the reserves of the central bank of russia are completely out of their control. they are frozen. can you imagine that? this is a coercion capacity. three days ago it was impossible, and now it's possible, and they are starting to feel the consequences in terms of inflation and the fall of their currency. yes, we have capacities. we have mobilised these capacities and we have to continue doing so. in putting together the capacities of the member states and the european union, i would like to remind you that the european peace facility is not part of the budget you voted on; it is another budget, an intergovernmental fund managed by the member states because we claimed that we in the european union were a peaceful force and we cannot provide arms to anyone else. yes, we can. yes, we have done this. in the next budget, think about it. when you vote on the next budget, use your budgetary capacity. you have the budgetary capacity of this institution to lay down the ways and means to face the next crisis and the next russian aggression. we are working internationally to build a coalition to condemn russia at the united nations. there was not a single vote in favour: everyone voted against, with the exception of a very significant number of abstentions. there are countries which are traditionally allied with russia but which did not vote in favour of it: they abstained. now we must build an international coalition so that at the next general assembly of the united nations the whole world will condemn the aggressor; no one can look the other way. when a powerful aggressor attacks a much weaker neighbour without any justification, no one can claim to be able to resolve the conflict peacefully. nobody can put in equal footing the aggressor and the aggressor. we will remember those who are not with us at this solemn moment. (applause) thank you very much. yes, we have used our capacity to coerce, the ability to impose, not necessarily using weapons. when i say that europe must be a hard power, people think only of military power; no, hard power is exercised in many other ways. the ability to influence, the ability to impose on another another behaviour is not exercised solely with weapons; it is exercised, as the commission has proposed, in an extraordinarily effective way. thank you, madam president, and, like you, who have promoted the debates of the european council, by taking measures like these, which seem like paper, which, of course, do not mobilise missiles, but have a transcendental effect on the solvency of a country and prevent russia from spending the money we pay for its gas to fuel the war. this, i believe, ladies and gentlemen, is the most important lesson we can draw from these tragic circumstances: we cannot continue to rely on the appeal to the rule of law and the development of trade relations to convert the world into a peaceful place where everyone will evolve towards representative democracy. the forces of evil, the forces that are struggling to continue using physical violence as a way of resolving conflicts, are still alive. and in the face of them, we must demonstrate a capacity for action that is much more powerful, much more consistent and much more united than we have been able to demonstrate so far. we have done a lot and we have, without a doubt, amazed the world and surprised putin with a united and quick reaction capability. we must follow this path, and this act, this parliamentary moment in which you, with your applause, want to encourage the european institutions to follow the path we have embarked upon, may be the moment in which europeans understand that the world in which they live is a dangerous world and, in order to face it, they must strengthen their union. the pandemic opened the door to innovative actions. the pandemic has pushed us on the path to unite more to face the virus. this tragic moment should spur us to unite more to face those human actions that also threaten the life, security and prosperity of all. (applause) thank you very much.
president of the commission. – madam president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, high representative, mr president of the ukraine, dear volodymyr, mr speaker of the ukrainian parliament, my honourable members, war has returned to europe. almost 30 years after the balkan wars, and over half a century after soviet troops marched into prague and budapest, civil defence sirens again went off in the heart of a european capital. thousands of people fleeing from bombs camped in underground stations – holding hands, crying silently, trying to cheer each other up. cars lined up towards ukrainian western borders, and when many of them ran out of fuel, people picked up their children and their backpacks and marched for tens of kilometres towards our union. they sought refuge inside our borders, because their country was not safe any longer. because inside ukraine, a gruesome death count has begun. men, women, children are dying, once again, because a foreign leader, president putin, decided that their country, ukraine, has no right to exist. and we will never, ever let that happen and never, ever accept that. (applause) honourable members, this is a moment of truth for europe. let me quote the editorial of one ukrainian newspaper, the kyiv independent, published just hours before the invasion began: ‘this is not just about ukraine. it is a clash of two worlds, two polar sets of values.’ they are so right. this is a clash between the rule of law and the rule of the gun; between democracies and autocracies; between a rules—based order and a world of naked aggression. how we respond today to what russia is doing will determine the future of the international system. the destiny of ukraine is at stake, but our own fate also lies in the balance. we must show the power that lies in our democracies, we must show the power of people that choose their independent paths, freely and democratically. this is our show of force. today, a union of almost half a billion people has mobilised for ukraine. the people of europe are demonstrating in front of russian embassies all across our union. many of them have opened their homes to ukrainians – fleeing from putin’s bombs. and let me thank especially poland, romania, slovakia and hungary for welcoming these women, men and children. europe will be there for them, not only in the first days, but also in the weeks and months to come. that must be our promise all together. (applause)this is why we are proposing to activate the temporary protection mechanism to provide them with a secure status and access to schools, medical care and work. they deserve it. we need to do that now. and we know this is only the beginning. more ukrainians will need our protection and solidarity. we are and we will be there for them. our union is showing a unity of purpose that makes me proud. at the speed of light, the european union has adopted three waves of heavy sanctions against russia’s financial system, its high—tech industries and its corrupt elite. this is the largest sanctions package in our union’s history. we do not take these measures lightly, but we feel we had to act. these sanctions will take a heavy toll on the russian economy and on the kremlin. we are disconnecting key russian banks from the swift network. we also banned the transactions of russia’s central bank, the single most important financial institution in russia, and this paralyses billions in foreign reserves, turning off the tap on russia’s and putin’s war. we have to end this financing of his war. (applause) second, we target important sectors of the russian economy. we are making it impossible for russia to upgrade its oil refineries; to repair and modernise its air fleet; and to access many important technologies it needs to build a prosperous future. we have closed our skies to russian aircraft, including the private jets of oligarchs. and make no mistake: we will freeze their other assets as well – be it yachts or fancy cars or luxury properties – we will freeze that altogether. thirdly, in another unprecedented step, we are suspending the licences of the kremlin’s propaganda machine. the state—owned russia today and sputnik, and all of their subsidiaries, will no longer be able to spread their lies to justify putin’s war and to divide our union. these are unprecedented actions by the european union and our partners in response to an unprecedented aggression by russia. each one of these steps has been closely coordinated with our partners and allies, the united states, the united kingdom, canada and norway, but also, for example, japan, south korea and australia. all of these days you see that more than 30 countries – representing well over half of the world’s economy – have also announced sanctions and export controls on russia. if putin was seeking to divide the european union, to weaken nato, and to break the international community, he has achieved exactly the opposite. we are more united than ever and we will stand up in this war, that is clear that we will overcome and we will prevail. we are united and we stay united. (applause) honourable members, i am well aware that these sanctions will come at a cost for our economy too. i know this, and i want to speak honestly to the people of europe. we have endured two years of pandemic. and we all wished that we could focus on our economic and social recovery. but i believe the people of europe understand very well that we must stand up against this cruel aggression. yes, protecting our liberty comes at a price. but this is a defining moment. and this is the cost we are willing to pay, because freedom is priceless, honourable members. this is our principle: freedom is priceless. our investments today will make us more independent tomorrow. i am thinking first and foremost about our energy security. we simply cannot rely so much on a supplier that explicitly threatens us. this is why we reached out to other global suppliers. and they responded. norway is stepping up. in january, we had a record supply of lng gas. we are building new lng terminals and working on interconnectors. but in the long run, it is our switch to renewables and hydrogen that will make us truly independent. we have to accelerate the green transition. because every kilowatt—hour of electricity europe generates from solar, wind, hydropower or biomass reduces our dependency on russian gas and other energy sources. this is a strategic investment. and, my honourable members, this is a strategic investment because on top, less dependency on russian gas and other fossil fuel sources also means less money for the kremlin’s war chest. this is also a truth. we are resolute, europe can rise to the challenge. the same is true on defence. european security and defence has evolved more in the last six days than in the last two decades. most member states have promised deliveries of military equipment to ukraine. germany announced that it will meet the 2% goal of nato as soon as possible. and our union, for the first time ever, is using the european budget to purchase and deliver military equipment to a country that is under attack. eur 500 million from the european peace facility, to support ukraine’s defence. as a first batch, we will now also match this by at least eur 500 million from the eu budget to deal with the humanitarian consequences of this tragic war, both in the country and for the refugees. honourable members, this is a watershed moment for our union. we cannot take our security and the protection of people for granted. we have to stand up for it. we have to invest in it. we have to carry our fair share of the responsibility. this crisis is changing europe. but russia has also reached a crossroads. the actions of the kremlin are severely damaging the long—term interests of russia and its people. more and more russians understand this as well. they are marching for peace and freedom. and how does the kremlin respond to this? by arresting thousands of them. but ultimately, the longing for peace and freedom cannot be silenced. there is another russia besides putin’s tanks. and we extend our hand of friendship to this other russia. be assured, they have our support. (applause) honourable members, in these days, independent ukraine is facing its darkest hour. at the same time, the ukrainian people are holding up the torch of freedom for all of us. they are showing immense courage. they are defending their lives. but they are also fighting for universal values and they are willing to die for them. president zelenskyy and the ukrainian people are a true inspiration. and when we last spoke, he told me again about his people’s dream to join our union. today, the european union and ukraine are already closer than ever before. there is still a long path ahead. we have to end this war. and we should talk about the next steps. but i am sure: nobody in this hemicycle can doubt that a people that stands up so bravely for our european values belongs in our european family. and therefore, honourable members, i say long live europe. and long live a free and independent ukraine. my z vamy. slava ukraini. (loud and sustained applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the 24th of february is a deep break in europe and the world. war is back in europe. and every word, every speech that is made seems small in the face of the achievements that ukrainians are now making. and that is why, first of all, the admiration is focused on the ukrainians, their president zelenskyy at the head, for their steadfastness, for their love of freedom, for their courage, for their determination. they are the heroes of our european way of life today. the 24th of february is a day of freedom for europe: from dublin to athens, from lisbon to riga, the same feeling - shock and horror at the brutality of the russian attack on the one hand, and admiration and solidarity with the people of ukraine on the other. they fight for us, for our values. these days, this 'kiev moment' of 24 february, make us all europeans. this 'kiev moment' is forcing us to give clear answers. if president selensky asks us, "are we welcome?" we will say, "yes, we are welcome". can we become members of the european union? are we?, then i say on behalf of the largest party in europe:yes, you are welcome! yes, you are part of the european union. you are our friends. (applause from the centre) the 'kiew moment' also forces us to show the alternatives. putin is the brutal aggressor. it is the opposite of what we believe in, namely nationalism, autocracy, the rejection of the rule of law, and the dull thinking of imperial zones of influence. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices, but is instead a europe of the people, a europe of the people. but the 'kiew moment' also means being honest with ourselves, making it clear that we need to act now. the sanctions have been a package of measures unprecedented in its kind. i would like to thank all those involved for their work in the last few hours and days. we, as the largest group, support these measures, but one thing is also clear: a few days ago, a week ago, it was not so much talked about. some have even refused to talk about nord stream 2 as a sanctions option. we have not been decisive enough in preparing the steps that putin has now chosen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre) the 'kiev moment' also means a strong nato, but also building a strong european pillar. the epp visited nato troops in lithuania last week. i asked a dutch commander there: 'what is your greatest wish for politics?' other and his answer was, "we spend 50% of our time coordinating technical standards on radios, on technology, on munitions. finally, create common european structures! that was the request of the soldiers who are defending the freedom of europe. the 'kiev moment' means that europe must now think big too. that is why, i ask you, we must rethink the conference on the future of europe. the citizens' dialogue is over. we got the feedback. now is the time to make this conference a real place where we decide on the future of europe, have the courage to take these steps together - when, if not now! and the 'kiev moment' also shows that we need to put the policy areas we have to discuss here in the european parliament on the back burner: energy policy, as already mentioned by ursula von der leyen, the eu needs to accelerate the green deal and to conclude new international partnerships and energy trade agreements. and the kiev moment means for us that we are bound to the united states in a community of destiny. with joe biden in particular, we need to take advantage of that momentum. the importance of a close economic union, an economic power, for freedom and democracy is being demonstrated right now. and that is why we want to build a new ttip, a new trade agreement with the americans, so that we can stand even closer together. it is the right time to use this kiev moment to tackle the further development of europe. a new age is beginning. we need to take a deep breath. but the freedom and the european way of life are worth it. because freedom has no price tag. the price of freedom is only paid when it is lost. the courageous ukrainians are proving this to us. we're on your side! (applause from the centre)
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in ukraine. in historic times we need historic decisions. the financial and military support to ukraine, the disconnection of the main russian banks from the swift platform, the activation of the international protection directive to help ukrainian refugees and the ban on the kremlin's media machine represent a qualitative leap in our response capacity. the western democracies have achieved admirable unity in meeting this challenge and it is essential that we maintain unity in the face of the serious challenges we will continue to face. the four sanctions packages spearheaded by mr borrell are a first step in a long crisis that will raise new dilemmas, including how to continue supporting ukraine or how to react to likely russian retaliation. unity requires courage and sacrifice. only with courage and sacrifice will we achieve energy autonomy to subdue putin. our unwavering commitment to a world energy order based on renewable energy in the long term must be complemented by the creation of strategic gas reserves in the short term. and we also need courage and sacrifice to welcome all the refugees fleeing war with a shared responsibility effort. putin's cowardly attack shows his real fear: democracy. a successful democratic transition in ukraine should serve as an inspiration to those who have courageously taken to the streets in russia today as well. the struggle for peace and freedom of the russian and ukrainian peoples requires our commitment. we will not rest until we get putin tried as a war criminal by the international criminal court. (applause) putin's aggression also exposes his far-right accomplices and a model of coexistence that represses dissent, censors media and denies individual rights. at this hour, in the cities and villages of ukraine, not only the security and territorial integrity of this country is at stake, but also the world in which we want to live. it can be a democratic one, based on international law, diplomacy and human rights; or it can be another, based on brute force, spheres of influence and the violation of rights that should be universal. no tyrant will make us renounce our desire to forge alliances around a peace project that protects the sovereignty of nations, the progress and freedom of peoples and the integrity of borders. history is never wrong. we cannot leave the ukrainians behind, alone, as we spaniards felt at the time in the first half of the 20th century in the struggle between fascism and democracy. the heroic resistance of the ukrainian people will be the triumph of western democracies. and let me make one last personal reflection: i am proud of europe, of today's europe, of the europe that does not give up and does not resign, of the europe that looks back to learn from history, but above all looks forward to continue defending what is most precious: democracy and peace. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would say to our dear ukrainian friends: we do not have enough words to praise your courage and determination to defend your freedom. your resistance is a wake—up call to all democrats around the world. without the will to fight, democracy will perish. to your aggressor i say: your lies for justifying war cannot, and will not, remain unchallenged. no, mr putin, ukraine is not ruled by nazis. on the contrary, its legitimately—elected president stems from a family which was bloodied in the holocaust. no, mr putin, there is no genocide going on in the donbas. what is happening there is a war that you yourself started eight years ago, which has already taken 14 000 lives, and which your invasion brings only to a new level. no, mr putin, ukraine has never intended to get nuclear weapons. on the contrary, it relinquished voluntarily those it inherited in 1991 from the soviet union in exchange for its territorial integrity, which you have been trampling on ever since you annexed crimea in 2014. no, mr putin, there was no perspective for ukraine to join nato in the foreseeable future. if there is such an aspiration in ukraine, as there was in so many nations once subjugated by the soviet union, your aggression against ukraine explains why. no, mr putin, the nato member states have no intention to deny the russian peoples’ right to peace and security. it is your reckless actions that imperil those legitimate aspirations. the reality, mr putin, is that the people of ukraine chose freedom, democracy, the rule of law and peace. that choice, made by a people so close to russia’s by history and geography, was never a threat to russia’s security, but to the very existence of your authoritarian and kleptocratic rule. this is the real reason for the invasion and the cost of precious human lives and livelihoods, both ukrainian and russian. the reality, mr putin, is that your brutal aggression against the ukrainian people is doomed to fail. you wanted to deny their very existence as a people, but your aggression is cementing their unity against the invader. as citizens of the european union, we know that the war on ukraine is more than just an aggression against a sovereign state. it is a direct challenge to the values that lie at the foundation of our union. ever since it was started, the european project was – and remains – a peace project, so that the rule of brute force be replaced by the rule of law and so that democracy, dialogue, compromise and cooperation across national borders provide the best basis for shared and sustainable prosperity. we europeans cannot stand by idle when a partner country is invaded and when our fundamental values are challenged in such a brutal way. this is why – short of direct military intervention, which would be foolish – we must, and we will, provide the ukrainian people with all the support we can in order to face the aggression. this is why we must, and we will, provide safe haven without any discrimination to all those who are fleeing the war to seek refuge on our territory. this is why we must, and we will, mobilise all the political, economic and financial means at our disposal to exert maximum pressure on putin’s russia in order to make him stop his aggression. let me be clear to the people of russia: we have no quarrel with you. you too have the right to live in dignity, and many of you are standing up daily to defend it at great personal risk. we know that resuming the diplomatic dialogue with your country is the only path to sustainable peace on our continent, but this can only happen if the aggression stops. as for us europeans, meeting the challenge put to us by putin’s war will test our strength, our determination and, above all, our unity. it will not come cheap. therefore, it will force us to make hard choices. the first must be for cohesion within and across member states. the global financial crisis, the eurozone crisis and the pandemic have deepened social and economic injustice in our union. it cannot be that, once again, the brunt of the massive efforts required to counter putin’s war will be carried by the weakest shoulders. should that be the case, the legitimate resentment would sap the very basis of our social contract, as well as those of our union. this would fulfil one of putin’s unsaid goals – dividing us. the second must be for energy independence. indeed, our massive dependence on russia for raw materials and energy is a primary reason for europe’s lack of determination to deter the russian regime up until now. that is no surprise when 40% of our gas, 30% of our coal, of our oil and of our nuclear fuel – don’t forget that – is provided by russia as the eu is almost devoid of those resources. is our plan really to replace this massive dependence on russia with another equally massive dependence on anyone else? we say that energy independence is the key for the eu to become a respected geopolitical player, and that will never be achieved by putting gas and nuclear at the heart of our energy strategy. as the president said, only renewables and energy efficiency can give us the strategic autonomy we seek. it is not just for the climate that we must accelerate the energy transition. it is for our security and for the resilience of our economies. dear colleagues, never before has the european union been challenged in such a direct and brutal way. i have no doubt that we collectively – and only collectively – have the strength, the resources, the determination and, above all, the wisdom to meet this challenge together, and together with ukraine, because we belong together.
in the name of the id group. madam president, madam president of the european commission, mr president of the council, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the russian regime's despicable attack on ukraine is bringing to europe the worst images of its history. as president von der leyen said, 30 years after the balkan war, we are again talking about a war in europe in 2022. our support and our extraordinary admiration go to the ukrainian people, to these people who today, with tenacity, defend their freedom and their sovereignty in the face of unjustifiable aggression. the fact that, perhaps for the first time, the european institutions have responded in this way with firmness and speed to an emergency situation is unanimously condemned. you all remembered: the package of sanctions that has been launched is a package that is unprecedented in the history of europe in terms of size, breadth and impact; the approach and the unity with which the european institutions have acted is unprecedented. we must support the ukrainian people fully and we must ensure that as soon as possible the solution to this conflict is a peaceful one that restores the territorial integrity of ukraine. but at the same time, as some of you have mentioned, we have to analyze the fact that february 24th changes and has changed our history and that there will be a "before" and an "after". and we have an obligation to analyse what our mistakes were, what our mistakes were in the first, so that europe and the european states are not unprepared for a second. russia is not the only authoritarian regime that threatens the global world and we should take that into account. so let's try to analyze them, these errors: we have talked many times - and some of them have been highlighted by speakers before me - about our dependence on russia for energy, gas, oil, raw materials, as a market for our products. but this addiction was our political choice: it was our choice not to exploit our energy resources and then buy them from russia or other countries. you see, europe is not an energy-poor country: it has decided to be an energy-poor country. let me give you an example. my country in the 1990s produced 20 billion cubic meters of gas a year. today it produces three, and not because italy has run out of gas, but because we have decided not to use it. and as for the sanctions: i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted, but i am saying that it has not been consulted. the commission has already taken action on the sanctions, and i hope that the commission will act as quickly as it did on the sanctions to ensure that this does not happen and that our businesses and our citizens are supported. i'll close with two thoughts. the first: what we have seen with russia must be a lesson for the future. there is another illiberal regime that threatens the west, namely the chinese regime: we must not make the same mistakes as we did with russia under this regime and we must reduce europe's dependence on that country. the second point, and i conclude, is more personal. these are the moments in history where politics, politicians, are divided into big and small; in my country, we say "man" and "man-child". i regret to say, mr president, that once again, in the face of this tragic moment, some in this parliament have wanted to be remembered as little men: the fact that the council has not yet adopted the resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is a very important one, is a matter of concern to us.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the war has created an entirely new situation, and we have to do everything we can to win this war because it’s our war, the war of all european nations. once putin decided to go ahead with the invasion, it became clear he’s determined to subdue ukraine and will not hesitate to resort to extreme measures. it was he who once said, let me remind you, that the collapse of the soviet union had been the greatest geopolitical tragedy of the century. so there should be no misunderstanding as to his intentions. he plans to create what was once the soviet empire – perhaps not with one stroke, but that is definitely his final objective. moreover, he has been more or less open about it all along. the ukrainian army and the ukrainian people are opposing the invaders, and they desperately need some military back—up, arms and other tools of defence. fortunately, after the initial opposition from some countries, it is now about 20 governments i think, which have started helping the ukrainians. it’s very good that some time ago, in the council, the member states decided to create a european peace facility and that these funds can now be used to help ukraine. i’m proud to say that it is my government that was first to propose, as early as thursday morning, to activate the european peace facility. so, the flow of arms, the flow of necessary technology and other means of defence must continue. whatever the effects of the sanctions, who wins the war will ultimately be decided on the battlefield. finally – and i must say this, i’m sorry, because as usual, the eu with its narcissistic and self—congratulatory proclivities likes to escape responsibility – putin made his decision because he was induced by the weakness of the west. let us be frank. he did not think much of the western leaders, and it showed. he didn’t hide it. in a way, he was right, having been for a long time pampered by the french and german governments, by some american administrations, and also by the european commission that was both unable and unwilling to stymie the nord stream projects. so to those western leaders and governments that took upon themselves the job of dealing with russia, and particularly to the german politicians – but not only to them – we must say today, ladies and gentlemen: you blew it and your leadership credibility is gone. it’s time for a reset, and let us start by enabling ukraine to join the european union.
madam president, mr high representative, i would like to thank you for your service. more than 90,000 refugees arrived in hungary yesterday evening. one of the largest humanitarian programs in hungarian history is underway, in terms of refugees coming to our country and aid to be sent to ukraine. we will take in and provide for all, regardless of where they fled from in ukraine or what their ethnicity is. the whole country is helping as one. we fully condemn the russian military aggression and stand for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine. hungary considers a united european action to be key, supports ukraine's candidate status, and contrary to all malicious false news and disinformation, the hungarian government supports all joint sanctions, united decisions, including the activation of the european peace framework. we can't let them drag us into a tragic war in our neighborhood. the people want peace! in a war situation, national minorities are even more vulnerable, even more exposed to false news, disinformation, so we must also pay attention to the safety of the transcarpathian hungarian community. what is needed now is strategic calm, so that the parties can return from the realm of violence and weapons to negotiations, to diplomatic solutions. we must work to restore peace, both in the neighbourhood and in the region, and to this end we must give all possible assistance to ukraine.
mr president, madam president, high commissioner, dear colleagues, dear ukrainians, today we are back to 28 in the european union again. ukraine has emerged as a great member of the european family. ukraine is bravely fighting for european values and freedom for europeans. let us give ukraine its due: providing a candidate status now and then accepting it in the european union. every day that passes makes things worse for ukraine and we cannot allow it. today, the future and the fate of europe is at stake in ukraine. russia’s traitorous operation only confirms the putin regime’s choice to draw new red lines on the face of europe. by ordering the attack on ukraine, the russian leader, putin, has become a war criminal and has brought the belarusian dictator lukashenko with him. they are already in the dustbin of history. their actions are already condemned and soon due to be convicted. let us give ukraine a weapon with which it can defend itself against the aggressor. it’s our duty. and let us provide humanitarian aid to its people who are suffering from the crimes of its aggressor. this support must be such that the west can look ukraine in the eye. let us isolate russia. the full political, economic and cultural blockade. keep russia down, kremlin cronies out and the russian people close. ukraine’s victory is our victory. slava ukraini!
mr president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, an unjustifiable tragedy is befalling our continent. what is happening before our eyes, a few kilometres from our borders, is a full-scale attack by the russian federation on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a democratic country. the images coming to us from ukraine are not only a testimony to an unjustified and indiscriminate attack but a clear violation of all rules of international law, including those governing conflicts. we must react to put an end to these actions against civilian targets, women and children, which do not constitute a real war but a barbarity, and the perpetrators of which must be brought to justice in the competent institutions. the ukrainian people, to whom we express our full solidarity and closeness, are witnessing and reacting to this barbarity with courage, dignity and a great spirit of resilience. i think it is also appropriate today to emphasize the role of the countries on the eastern border, which are taking action in welcoming and managing the humanitarian emergency, which is commendable. the ukrainian reaction is perhaps unexpected for many and calls for an even greater commitment on our part, in cooperation with other countries of the atlantic alliance and the international community, to defend the values of freedom and democracy. and that is why the european union and the west have certainly made some mistakes in the past: but today is the time for unity and firmness. that is why our group reiterates its full support for the sanctions and all the measures which are aimed at undermining moscow's economic and military power and forcing the kremlin to put an end to its shameful offensive against ukraine. but at the same time, it is also important to ensure that, while preserving the political unity and decisions of the european union, we succeed in maintaining the consensus of european public opinion on what has already happened beyond these two years of economic pandemic. that is why we must think hard about the establishment of a fund to protect the citizens and the categories affected by these sanctions.
mr president, today, we are not simply condemning an unjustifiable aggression. today, we stand up united in this house to face the criminal invasion of an authoritarian regime against international law, our principles, our values, therefore against all of us. putin’s cynical bet assumes he would quickly overthrow the ukrainian democracy with these divisions on the ground, but also brings other divisions no less dangerous through propaganda and fear within our countries, among our peoples. our bond and duty is to make sure that he will fail. with our resolute support to the resistance in ukraine and its official recognition as eu candidate and with the immediate adoption of a new solidarity package based on common european bonds. we must immediately support also our companies and families who will suffer the dire consequences of the dutiful sets of sanctions aimed at bringing moscow to the negotiating table. this is not the war of all the russians. this is a crime perpetrated by a tyrant and his accomplices. thousands of citizens are bravely taking to the streets to shout their clear ‘no’, risking their lives to oppose his imperialistic ravings. they deserve our full support. this existential threat is a crucial moment in our history and calls for exceptional efforts. if we really want to protect peace, democracy and our common destiny, sometimes it takes courage to grow up and become who we really are. slava europa, slava ukraini.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm not going to let you go. what is happening here is war in europe in real time, is the immense suffering of innocent people, is the greatest catastrophe for ukraine since the german invasion in 1941, and is the fault and sole responsibility of a cynical, constantly lying and contemptuous russian dictator who wants to end the existence of ukraine as a democratic, independent state and bring it back to the reich against the will of the people. this is an experiment that is going on, and this experiment is bound to fail. when the soviet union began the blockade of west berlin in 1948 the red army was standing around , the ruling mayor ernst reuter made an appeal to the peoples of the world. today revisionist russia is trying to surround and strangle the ukrainian capital with its invading forces and to bring the free people there into soviet servitude. therefore, it is appropriate to repeat this appeal: you people of the world, you people of america, of europe, of the free world, look at this city and this country and realize that you must not, you cannot, betray this country and this people! we must give a political signal to this people, who have made the revolution of dignity with ukrainian and european flags, who have said where they are looking and where they are aiming: that they belong to us, that their struggle for freedom is not in vain, that evil, the stalinist and fascist putin regime alike, will not prevail, and that after this trial, after this crossroads, there will be a reconstruction on the way to a common european future. i ask for your support for our resolution. i'm going to the slav ukrajini.
mr. chairman, yes, russia's aggression against ukraine could be the dawn of a new, more just international order. the main reason for the war is the authoritarian nature of the regime under the absolutism of the russian president. we don't know which is worse, putin's military aggression or his narrative of justifying violence. putin was counting on the passivity of the ukrainians and the division of the west. he overestimated his own strength, underestimated the strength of the ukrainian resistance and the ability of the west to unite. this war also brings back memories of the war of aggression against my country, croatia, thirty years ago. attacks on children's hospitals, civilian facilities, the destruction of cities, the large numbers of refugees. putin, like milosevic, must answer for his actions in a war crimes tribunal. it's going to be very hard for him to get out of this war. the kremlin could be facing a russian version of the maidan. history has shown that dictators can be defeated, but it's equally important to remove the circumstances that led to the emergence of dictators. ukraine is bleeding, but putin's regime will bleed. long live the european ukraine, glory to the ukraine!
mr president, the russian aggression against ukraine has finally allowed the eu to show the unity and global leadership that has long been expected of it. the eu and the entire democratic world have succeeded in joining forces in support of ukraine. finnish president sauli niinistö expressed his feelings by saying that the masks have now been removed and only the cold faces of war remain. the situation is a complete wake-up call, although the signs of russia's very worrying aggressive development have been in the air for a long time. if we are ever to build a genuine security and defence cooperation for the european union, it must cover all eu countries and it must also protect the eu's close partners. my dear friends, i do not need to tell you that in finland, a country which is not militarily allied, the awakening to reality has been even more stubborn. the closer the eu-nato relationship becomes, the easier it will be for countries like finland to overcome the obstacles that russia has put in their way if they want to seal their membership with a close partnership with nato.
mr president, i salute the heroism and resistance of the ukrainian people facing the unprecedented aggression from the kremlin, putin’s russian federation. i really admire the heroism of the ukrainian leadership. president zelenskyy already finds his place in universal history. i admire the heroism of the commanders, soldiers and in particular, ordinary people. you are invincible. it is our war as well and in resisting aggression, you are the best part of us, the west. we are honoured by your request to become a member of the european union. we will do our utmost to provide you candidacy status as soon as possible and immediately on unprecedented rules for membership, therefore. because we need you and of course, you need us. in this i speak on behalf of all of the ecr group’s polish delegation. all of them fully support the resolution as negotiated by me.
mr president, our condemnation of the invasion of capitalist russia into ukraine is coupled with the condemnation of the series of war crimes by the united states, nato and the european union against the peoples of yugoslavia, afghanistan, iraq, syria and libya. the imperialist competition for spheres of influence and sources of wealth has led to the imperialist war which the peoples are paying with lives, refugees and a new take-off of the already existing 'green' precision. all this 30 years after the capitalist restoration in the soviet union, where socialism had managed to live for decades peoples equal and peaceful. today, euro-eastern armaments and sanctions imposed on the peoples are leading to the escalation of the imperialist war and to the deep involvement of greece with weapons and american bases. the people must not choose sides. in their independent struggle, they demand: no engagement, no participation in war, no army outside the borders, the dismantling of all military bases and the disengagement from the european union and nato, with the people in power.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at this very moment, in the streets, in the houses, ukrainians are heroically defending freedom. they defend their democracy, they defend their territorial integrity. they are, for the whole of europe, the front for security, for peace and for democracy on our continent. so let us impose massive sanctions on putin and the oligarchs and let us immediately include belarus in those sanctions. we support the ukrainian resistance with military means. let us recognise the status of ukraine as a candidate country for the european union. let's banish russia from the entire international community. let's launch a big investment plan for climate and energy security, to put renewable energy at the heart of our package, because it is energy for peace, and to get out of energy dependencies and political complacency that kill democracy and kill the climate. let us act now and be proud of europe alongside the heroic resistance of ukraine. slava ukraini. i know.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are events which so brutally violate all established rules and which so staggeringly defy all rationality that they are shaking the world to its foundations. by deliberately and grossly attacking a free and sovereign european state, vladimir putin, alone, created one of these decisive events. in doing so, he underestimated ukrainian national feeling. he underestimated the commitment to freedom, a concept that all autocrats believe is outdated. he also underestimated the european reaction. the ukrainian resistance is admirable. she deserves our full support. the european union's commitment to the fight against drugs is also to be welcomed. however, the satisfaction of seeing us today reacting with strength and unity should not diminish our lucidity. this terrible war will continue. the aggressor may even win militarily, despite the moral indignity and his inexorable political defeat. let us not forget that, in the face of the war on our continent, which has already existed from 1945 to today, we have already seen europe believe that it is ready to face up to it. 'the hour of europe has struck,' said a european minister in 1991; we saw a decade of terrible war in the balkans follow. the urgency today is to support ukraine. ukraine is defending more than just its destiny as a free nation. it is also urgent to make the european strategic awakening irreversible, because we have entered a new era, in which it is an existential priority to be able to maintain the balance of power imposed on us by others.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, "there is no greatness where there is no truth": i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east. and today too, we need the truth to achieve the greatness of peace: this is the truth of the ukrainian people, who heroically resisted, together with president zelensky; the truth of a europe that is finally committed to its political, energy and defence sovereignty and is not afraid to make sacrifices to find a single voice to stop the war and save human lives because, first of all, there are the victims, the dead in ukraine, the refugees to be welcomed, the brave russians who do not want this militaristic delirium of putin, knowing that every people, starting with the ukrainian, must be free to self-determination without something bad happening if they try to decide their own future. that is why we give all the necessary support to those who today, in defending themselves, are also defending our democracies on ukrainian soil. but we have to be even braver, we have to be there: i would like to ask the commissioner to make a statement on the situation in the ukraine. putin will have to stop and it will be even more obvious, even to his fellow citizens, the folly of him and his inhuman war. for a free ukraine and a free europe!
i now announce the results of the first round of voting today. (the president read out the results of the first round of voting.) the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter.
we now continue our debate on the statements by the european council, the council and the commission (2022/2564 (rsp)).
the children killed, the women, the cities destroyed, are the grim price of the opening of europe. and they are fighting for us, for their freedom, but also for values, for values that they believe in: democracy, for european values, our values. they fight for us poles, for lithuanians, but also for you, in the western european countries. it's to keep europe safe. they need weapons today, of course, but we in this house can give them much more. we can give them a guarantee that once they have won this freedom and security for themselves, they will live together with us in peace. and we have to give it to them as soon as possible -- as soon as possible, without even looking at the procedures, giving a fast pace to the possibility of realizing those dreams, but we also have to be consistent, not make mistakes. if we freeze nord stream 2, why doesn't that include nord stream 1? we need to cut off all possible sources of income for the putin mafia. he does belong before the tribunal in the hague. he must answer for war crimes, but we must also reach out to all those who dream of living in peace. that's our job. this is the new, strong, united europe! anyone who opposes this is putin's henchman. a strong, united europe for all who want it! this war didn't start yesterday in ukraine. 2008 was the year of the attack on georgia. what about moldova? is there going to be bloodshed? we must remember the democratic opposition in belarus and the democrats in russia. freedom for alexei navalny, solidarity with ukraine, long live a united and strong europe and a free and democratic ukraine!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful for this special session, because it gives me the opportunity to express what the political message of the day must be: we condemn the violation of international law by president putin, who has ordered an attack on a peaceful neighbour, ukraine. that is why the spd members of this parliament will give their full support to the resolution. chancellor scholz is right this is putin's war. it is to him and his government that we address our opposition and protest, not to the russian people. our thoughts are with the people of ukraine today, with those who are fighting for their freedom, who are losing their lives in the process and who are fleeing for their lives. i'm going to the slav ukrajini. the eu and its institutions have shown that they can do their job and have shown unprecedented determination and ability to act. the eu's common foreign policy it works, therefore, if the member states want it to. the sanctions are coming down hard. many european politicians have warned putin how costly an attack on ukraine will be. it's coming true now. humanitarian aid for the refugees is on the way. our solidarity goes to the member states on the western border of ukraine, who are now providing first aid. you're not alone! we must now develop our policies, in addition to all the aid we have given to ukraine and to our european neighbours. how do we imagine security in a multipolar world? this is the question that putin has asked us in the most brutal way. we'll find some answers.
president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, putin has got the opposite of what he wanted: more european unity, more nato, and more western resolve. putin is clearly looking for a dirty war, revenge against ukraine, against the west, and he's threatening nuclear weapons. it's hard to act against so much irrational war-mongering. but make no mistake about it! autocrats around the world are watching to see how far we are willing to stand up for our values. our response today will determine the world we live in tomorrow. and since february 24th, the world has changed. let us ensure that a new europe is born in this crisis. a europe with a strong european defence and a european army to defend our values. a europe with a common european asylum and migration policy to provide a humane reception for ukrainian refugees. a europe that is no longer dependent on russia for its gas supplies. a europe with a european solidarity fund for all europeans affected by putin's revenge. that is the europe we need now. long live the peace! the european union is a great power. i'm going to the ukrainian slava!
mr president, the russian military aggression and invasion against ukraine is illegal. it is unprovoked. it is unjustified. this is indeed a crucial and historical moment, the moment of truth, as commission president ursula von der leyen pointed out. too many times in the past, the international community has been blind in front of unfolding tragedies. today, we as a european parliament are sending a strong and a united message to the kremlin that we stand with ukraine in full solidarity. as chair of the foreign affairs committee, i would like to thank the colleagues from the different political groups who drafted and negotiated this resolution, and i call on colleagues to vote in favour. i fully underline the very good arguments we have heard today. i want to add one point. let us also strongly condemn the involvement of belarus in this aggression against ukraine. it was during last week’s inter-parliamentary conference on the cfsp and csdp in paris that sviatlana tsikhanouskaya made it very clear that the assault on ukraine wouldn’t have been possible if dictator lukashenko wouldn’t have provided russia with the land and the infrastructure. the lukashenko regime has assisted and enabled this russian aggression. for this reason, the eu should apply further appropriate sanctions also on belarus. dear colleagues, the world will hold russia and belarus accountable for their actions.
mr president, dear colleagues, today we feel sadness, anger for sure, but also pride – pride in the unity of the european response to putin’s war crimes. could you imagine just for one second that we did not have the european union today? then we would be divided, and divided we cannot have any response to putin. but united, as we stand today, we have ukraine’s back. mr zelenskyy, i know you have other things to do, but you know we have your back. we stand with you. we stand with your people in full solidarity, in the fight for peace, freedom and democracy. it is clear putin will only listen to clear messages, so we need to use this clear language. therefore, i think it’s important that we stop buying gas from russia. we need to cut off from that gas. it’s at a high price, but it is doable. if we do not pay the price today, we will be presented with the price tomorrow. president zelenskyy was right. he said this is the crisis of freedom and democracy. well, dear colleagues, in europe let’s take this fight and stand up for our values.
mr president, dear colleagues, we have a war in europe on a scale and of a type we thought belonged to the history books. and let me be clear, this is not the war of russian people. this is putin’s war. putin’s regime is the one to blame for waging the war, killing civilians, destroying country’s infrastructure. putin has attacked the democratic values and european aspirations of the people of ukraine. but the brave ukrainians stood up strong, and they deserve fully fledged support. colleagues, it’s time to be on the right side of history and to grant ukraine candidate status. dear ukrainians, we will not let you go. i’m sure that the light will win over the dark. we are with you the brave people of ukraine. slava ukraini!
mr president, dear colleagues, now is the time for actions and clear words, so i will say four things very clearly. we can only live in safety and security within the borders of the 27 member states of the union if we are surrounded by countries which are safe and stable in our neighbourhood. this is why defending ukraine means defending the european union. we have to provide all the support that we can to ukraine, including financial support, and here we, the european parliament, have a big role to play. we say very clearly, we are ready to spend eu money to support ukraine and to rebuild ukraine. we are ready to spend eu money for defence. we are ready to spend more for democracy in ukraine and everywhere else where needed as well. secondly, when people in ukraine say they want to join the european union, our answer is yes, you are welcome. ukraine belongs to europe. ukraine belongs to the european union. this today we say with a very large majority of pro—european members of the european parliament. we know there is still a lot to do until membership, and many difficulties to overcome, but what more proof do we need than what the people of ukraine are doing these days that the people of ukraine can overcome all difficulties in view of it becoming a member of the european union one day. we start work on this as soon as possible. thirdly, the republic of moldova, a country of less than three million people and a neighbouring country of the european union, has welcomed more than 70 000 refugees onto their territory in the past five days. they have provided food, they have provided shelter, they have provided support. they acted in the european spirit on the basis of european values because they are led by a pro-european president and a pro-european government. this is why i say that everything that we offer to ukraine, we have to offer to the republic of moldova right now in terms of eu cooperation. in terms of perspective for membership, the republic of moldova and ukraine are equally important for the security of europe. the last thing is that the invasion of ukraine and the assault upon kyiv would not have been possible without belarus. this is why all political measures that we apply upon russia, we should apply in the same manner upon belarus.
the war has returned to europe. it's a war between two worlds: the aggressive and authoritarian world of putin and the other world where we want peace and democracy. this is a war in which putin is the criminal and ukrainian children, men and women are the heroes. this is not just an aggression against ukraine, it's putin's war against all of europe, against our values, our dreams of peace. that is why we must realize today that there will be no secure europe without a secure and independent ukraine. ukraine, which is part of the european union. this is the moment, this is the hope for millions of ukrainians who see in us, in the european union, their hope. that's why we need to open the door wide for ukraine today before putin closes it forever tomorrow. as a pole from the legendary country of solidarity, i ask the entire democratic world to show solidarity with ukraine. for our freedom and yours! no more war! glory to ukraine!
in writing. on february 24, the russian invasion of ukraine began. thus, the russian federation, led by its president vladimir putin, has challenged the right of the country to independence and has broken previous guarantees of the inviolability of its borders. this is the first such aggression since the end of world war ii. under the banner of a peaceful intervention, russia is attacking civilian targets and populations that have nothing to do with the army that heroically defends the homeland. russian missiles are even hitting hospitals, schools, and medical convoys. it's good that the world is finally seeing these crimes and responding to them. i hope it doesn't end with western countries declaring, for example, that they need to become energy independent from russia. we've been calling for this for a long time, but at least this voice has been ignored. we protested long before the nord stream pipeline was launched in 2010, warning of the strategic danger it posed to europe. today, the germans are still hesitating to abandon the nord stream 2 project! hopefully, the doubts have finally been dispelled as to whose criminal plans are sponsored by the purchase of russian gas, and the need for a deliberate diversification of energy sources is a strategic imperative for the entire european union. today we open poland's borders wide to all those seeking refuge from the barbarity of the russian army, we bow our heads before the heroic defenders of the homeland and we make every effort to ensure that they are not alone in their fight for life and freedom!
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! in order to avoid misinformation and misunderstandings, i believe it is important to interpret the war situation in ukraine in the light of the facts. hungary condemns the invasion of ukraine and stands for the sovereignty of the country. as a member of the eu and nato, our country supports all joint eu efforts to restore peace. hungary has contributed to the activation of the european peace facility, which allows arms deliveries to ukraine. the hungarian government also agreed to all common eu sanctions against russia. hungary also supports the early granting of candidate status to ukraine. regarding the humanitarian situation, according to official figures, more than 80,000 refugees have arrived in hungary from ukraine so far. in one of the largest humanitarian packages ever, hungary sent huf 600 million worth of aid, including water, food, baby care and hygiene products, to the transcarpathian region of ukraine to help avert a humanitarian catastrophe. the first hungarian aid shipment arrived in ukraine over the weekend, containing 28 tons of food and 100,000 liters of motor fuel. the hungarian defense ministry predicts that up to 600,000 refugees could arrive at the hungarian-ukrainian border. the authorities, in cooperation with humanitarian organisations and citizens, are continuously providing for the thousands of ukrainian refugees who arrive every day. so we are living in an unprecedented time of unity and a culture of inclusion in our region. thank you to everyone involved.
in writing. poland has been unambiguously pro-ukrainian from the beginning. we never had any doubts about what to do. poles don't calculate in such cases, there's no need to put pressure on us. it is decency to resist unjustified aggression in such situations. for years, the united right government has warned western countries against becoming dependent on russian resources. the russian federation has recently started to use this dependence politically, by restricting gas supplies and raising gas prices. many eu countries were initially afraid to respond forcefully to russian aggression in ukraine. i'm glad we're all united today. the european union strongly condemns the war crimes committed by the russian military and the attacks on infrastructure and civilians, but above all we support ukraine not only with words and helmets but also in the form of ammunition, weapons and military equipment, as well as humanitarian aid. poland has already taken in hundreds of thousands of refugees from ukraine and will welcome many more with open arms, as a nation we remember what war is and we will rise to the challenge. i also hope that the current situation will lead the eu to reflect and to limit unjustified attacks on my country.
in writing. on 24 february 2022, russian forces attacked ukraine. it is another tragic day that will be forever written in the history of europe, which has been the scene of many wars and conflicts for centuries. this time the enemy has again attacked from the east, just like in 1920, when the polish people showed their heroism fighting the bolsheviks for the independence of europe. today, the ukrainian people, showing great courage and heroism, like the poles of old, are fighting not only for their future, but for the future of europe. the declarations of the european union are important. i support the move to adopt tough sanctions against russia's financial system, its industry and its corrupt financial elites. i support disconnecting key russian banks from the swift network, blocking the russian central bank's transactions, which will cripple billions of russian foreign exchange reserves. i also believe that it is necessary to freeze billions of dollars of assets unfairly acquired by russian oligarchs, and that these funds should be used to rebuild the destroyed ukraine. important are the announcements by ursula von der leyen aimed at reducing dependence on imports of russian raw materials (including gas) and deliberate diversification of the current sources of imports, thanks to which the putin regime will lose huge financial resources that it has previously spent on armaments. the baltic pipe pipeline being built by poland shows that independence from russian gas is possible, only wise and decisive decisions are needed.
in writing. today, as bombs fall on ukraine as a result of russia's barbaric aggression, the question is: has the west learned the right lessons from history? when russia invaded georgia in 2008, polish president lech kaczynski arrived in the georgian capital tbilisi on august 12 of that year. his speech was a protest against russian aggression, and it proved prophetic for the future of eastern europe. and we know very well that today georgia, tomorrow ukraine, the day after the baltic states, and then maybe it's time for my country, poland, to heed the warning. on 1 september 2009, president lech kaczyński attended the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the outbreak of the second world war at westerplatte. among the guests were vladimir putin, the prime minister of the russian federation, and angela merkel, the chancellor of germany. 'imperialism must not give way, not even neo-imperialist tendencies,' stressed president lech kaczyński. he also recalled the agreement reached at the munich conference. the western powers then agreed to annex parts of czechoslovakia to the borders of the third reich. we must learn from munich, we must not give in to imperialism. donbass and crimea are not the second munich? the highest price that ukraine is paying today is the consequence of concessions and the conniving policy of the west, the policy of playing with the devil. now we just have to win this war.
in writing. – information is power, and whoever controls the narrative controls the people. i call on the commission to convene a summit between social media platforms and regulators from both sides of the atlantic to discuss further actions that platforms could take to tackle disinformation surrounding the russian invasion. however, with the stakes being as high as they can get during a war, the kremlin’s cyber army is likely to go beyond spreading fear and confusion online. we cannot exclude a full-scale online attack on critical european infrastructure – energy, financial, defence, transport and telecommunications – aiming to wreak havoc and kill. are we ready to protect our power plants and energy transmission network, our banking or transport navigation systems from an complex outright cyberattack? we should come with initiatives at eu level to take the cyber threats as serious as those from tanks and missiles.
in writing. we are living in a time that we never thought we would live in europe. a sovereign country is brutally invaded by another state in the name of historical revisionism and a despot's desire to control the destinies of people who want to be free. we cannot stand by while we see the victims of the madness of war criminal vladimir putin. we must do everything in our power to support the admirable resistance of the ukrainian people in the face of the kremlin's aggression. that is why i support the ep resolution on russia's aggression in ukraine and accepting ukraine's application to join the european union, and therefore the swift granting of the status of a candidate state for accession to the european union. on top of that, severe sanctions are needed to hurt russia's economy enough to cripple the war machine unleashed by moscow. the european union must also protect people fleeing war. this is why it is very important to activate the temporary refugee protection directive so that ukrainian citizens have immediate access to european protection.
in writing. ukrainians have shown the world their courage and determination in defending their land, families and children. most of us agree that ukraine needs our support. i agree, but at the same time i would like to clarify what kind of help is needed and absolutely necessary. first of all, let's stop buying russian coal, which is financing the war against ukraine. then we can break our energy dependency on russia. every day, millions of euros from gas purchases go to the budget of the russian federation. the last few days have clearly shown that we cannot rely on putin's cooperation and statements, because they very often go unreported. europe must show that it is independent and will not be blackmailed. in addition, i call for the complete closure of the airspace over ukraine. i call for the provision of humanitarian aid to civilians who have been in the occupation zone and have not had access to water, electricity and basic foodstuffs for several days. then let's support the ukrainians and those who want to escape the hell of war, fleeing from the bombs, regardless of religion, origin or color. war is a fear that affects everyone, no matter what they look like or where they come from.
in writing. in europe, in the 21st century, there is a war. what was unimaginable a few days ago has become a fact. the russian aggressor is killing people, including mothers and children, destroying cities, threatening and blackmailing. they demand that ukraine cease to be an independent state. the world stood up to defend a democratic country. it's not just sanctions, weapons, but also support on the international stage. poland has taken in some 400,000 people fleeing death in a matter of days. we need to listen to ukraine and prepare for the new geopolitical reality today. we should not only start the process of integrating ukraine into the european union, but also redefine europe's energy policy. work on the 'fit for 55' package, whose axis is nord stream ii and nord stream i, must be stopped immediately. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. for many years, cohesion policy has aimed to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion between the regions of the european union. under the cohesion policy 2021-2027, poland will receive eur 72 billion to be allocated to investments resulting from the state's development policy. it is positive for poland that we will once again receive a programme for eastern poland, which will accelerate the development of these most backward voivodeships. the main objective of this programme is to establish conditions conducive to the competitiveness of the macro-region and a higher quality of life in poland. the common financial framework we have adopted and the cohesion policy are being implemented with a two-year delay due to the introduction of a two-year transitional period. the polish government has submitted the partnership agreement on 15 december 2021 the national operational programmes and the regional programmes will be submitted on 15 march 2022. these documents are to be approved in accordance with the commission's declaration by the end of june 2022. we're waiting for their urgent approval. poland is a country that is making good use of european funds, and this is helping to reduce the differences in living standards between its citizens and those of more developed countries. this confirms the need to continue the policy of levelling the living standards in the different regions of the country. cohesion policy, in accordance with article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, must be more open to the implementation of tasks related to rural infrastructure development and tasks in the agri-food sector. in my view, a review of the system for the implementation of the measures for 2023-2027 is also necessary in terms of introducing significant simplifications and a more flexible approach to the objectives of the european green deal in view of the new challenges arising from covid-19 and russia's armed aggression against ukraine.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur for a good initiative, a much needed initiative. why is this initiative so necessary? it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because we have indeed had a system in europe - or do we still have a system - where what is almost the most precious thing we have, namely citizenship, can be bought for money and used for terrorism, for laundering money, for organised crime. you can break all the laws and all the rules. and it's time to end it. so i ask you to support this initiative, but more importantly, i ask you to support an amendment that not only will put an end to this practice in the future, but that will allow us to retrospectively check which russian oligarchs specifically used this system. and that is what i expect from you, from the commission, that you come here and present us with a report on who specifically benefited from this and who was hiding behind these mechanisms. because today it's easy to say, but we have to look very carefully at who used this system. and finally: you talk so much about ukraine and it's like very valuable, in this context this initiative fits in, it can help, but you know that if we really wanted to find out who today most, who today really finances putin's activities, you know that you would have to start looking in some european governments, because 600 billion euros a day is still going to putin and he buys bombs that fall on the civilian population. if you want to look, that's where you should look.
in writing. several eu countries have citizenship by investment (cbi) and residence by investment (rbi) schemes, under which third-country nationals receive citizenship or residence status in exchange for financial benefits. unfortunately, they have minimal or no physical presence requirements and offer a fast track to obtaining residence or citizenship status in a member state compared to conventional channels. the cbi and rbi programs carry numerous risks, including corruption, money laundering and tax evasion. this risk cannot be properly assessed due to a lack of transparency and is currently not sufficiently managed, resulting in poor verification and lack of due diligence for applicants under the cbi and rbi systems in the member states. it is important to look at this issue also in the context of russia's brutal aggression on the territory and people of ukraine. one of the first reactions in the world was to impose sanctions on a number of people closely associated with the kremlin regime, including oligarchs, who often use the very mechanisms we're talking about here. we must ensure that golden passports are not a ticket for anyone to escape responsibility for their actions, including those involved in the criminal activities of vladimir putin.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs anna donáth, the libe committee, and all those who have contributed to this report. this report highlights how vital civil society organisations are to the smooth functioning of our democracies. it provides detailed information on the various challenges they face. civil society organisations and independent media play a key role. they draw attention to threats to the rule of law, help to hold authorities to account and help to ensure respect for the rights enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights. preserving and protecting civil society space is more important than ever today, as our values and fundamental rights are sometimes under pressure or even threatened. civil society organisations are also essential for implementing the union's fundamental rights policy, in particular for helping victims and especially the most vulnerable. they promote and protect the rights guaranteed by the charter on the ground. they should therefore be able to operate in an environment where their own fundamental rights are fully respected. i am referring in particular to their right to freedom of expression, including access to information and to freedoms of peaceful assembly and association, including, of course, the right to seek resources. these rights must be respected in all circumstances. as the un recently recognised, a vibrant civic space requires an environment that is open, safe and free from any acts of intimidation, harassment and reprisals. however, the reality is sometimes quite different. the fundamental rights agency reported that in 2020, about one third of human rights organisations that responded to its consultation said their working conditions were poor or very poor. moreover, more than half of the national or local organisations that responded to this consultation said that in 2020 the situation had deteriorated or deteriorated significantly compared to previous years. the progressive erosion of the civic space is due to a number of factors that are different in each member state. we sometimes see regulatory constraints and difficulties in accessing funding or increased controls in this field. but we also see, in some cases, legislation and government actions that hamper the work of civil society organisations and affect their independence. also in some member states civil society organisations are not adequately protected from physical or verbal attacks and have been the target of strategic lawsuits against public participation, also known as slapps. several studies and trust surveys show that the pandemic has often exacerbated existing challenges. emergency measures must not be used to restrict fundamental rights in a way that is not proportionate, including the rights of civil society organisations. in this context, we rather need to continue to protect, support and empower our civil society organisations. as regards their protection, the commission is continuously monitoring developments related to the legislative and policy frameworks regulating civil society in each member state and is reporting about this in the annual rule of law report. civil society organisations are also closely involved in the process for the preparation of this report through a targeted consultation but also as part of our country visit and we will work more and more with the participation of civil society organisations in the follow-up of the different editions of the rule of law report because it has become a cycle and we need to organise the debate at national level through civil society organisations. the commission did not hesitate to act in its role as guardian of the treaties against a national legislation that restricted the right to freedom of association of civil society organisations by limiting their access to funding, in breach of eu law and of the charter, as confirmed in 2020 by the court of justice. following the adoption of a recommendation on the safety of journalists last september, the commission is currently finalising a package of measures to specifically protect journalists and rights defenders against the so-called slapps. as for the support for civil society for the citizens, equality rights and value programmes, the cervs, we have stepped up efforts in particular to support smaller, local associations that sometimes find it hard to work given the constraints they face. almost half a billion euro are reserved within the programme specifically for civil society organisations, with at least 40% of this amount to be allocated to local and regional civil society organisations. the large amount of civil society organisations which can benefit from the programme is also a core indicator to measure its performance. in addition, we have coupled the traditional system of funding linked to a project to a call for grants under the union values strand. those grants will support the capacity building of civil society organisations, funding their running costs and development. the first call, with eur 51 million available, is open until 29 march. we will ensure that funding reaches organisations that are engaged in the promotion and protection of eu values across the member states and that work in full compliance with the values and rights enshrined in the treaties and the charter. to do this, funding will be disbursed through a system of intermediaries in the member states that know the specifics of the challenges faced by civil society organisations. the intermediaries will provide technical and methodological support to small organisations during the application phase, the monitoring and reporting phase and in the preparation and implementation of their activities. finally, the commission puts civil society at the heart of each of its recent fundamental rights strategies - the strategy to strengthen the application of the charter of fundamental rights in the eu, the strategy on the rights of the child, the strategy on combating anti-semitism and fostering jewish life or the anti-racism action plan. these strategies were developed in close consultation with civil society organisations which are also deeply involved in their implementation. the commission will also continue to empower civil society organisations by engaging in a dialogue with them and by acting accordingly throughout all relevant stages of its work. finally, let me stress that the 2022 report on the application of the charter will be devoted to the role of civic space in protecting and promoting the rights offered by the charter. the commission will continue the dialogue with civil society organisations to ensure that our common objectives are best achieved. we will also engage in specific consultations in the run-up to the 2022 report on the charter. we will continue to address the issue of civic space and civil society organisations in a chapter of the report on the rule of law. but we will also, in the 2022 report on the application of the charter, focus on the role of this civic space in protecting and promoting the rights offered by the charter. i would not like to conclude without reminding you that, of course, with the support of your parliament, we have obtained the necessary funds to strengthen our collaboration with civil society organisations, for which i thank you. and i am, of course, delighted to hear your contributions again today.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. putin to hell! putin, go to hell! you are a genocidal man. you have destroyed the peace of europe. you're destroying the ukrainian people. but you also took russia's future for decades. three, four generations of russians will carry the heavy burden of what putin's army is doing in ukraine today. i'm arguing that if civil society in russia had been strong and not systematically destroyed by the state, this war would simply not have happened. the citizens would not allow it. and that's all putin is afraid of. just this one. and that's why he's so brutal in suppressing protests and sending political opponents to prison camps. autocrats, dictators and tyrants hate free people and civil society. a civil society that is aware of its rights and responsibilities, that is educated, that participates in elections and referendums on a mass scale, that makes good use of the media and social media, is the most powerful weapon and at the same time the most reliable guarantee of peace. we in europe know very well that civil society is a pillar of our community and we must support it. we have prepared a report highlighting specific areas for improvement. we call on the commission to develop a catalogue of civic space and a strategy that will include minimum legal and administrative standards. the strategy also aims to introduce the status of european crossborder associations and non-profit organisations. we call for more flexibility in access to eu funds for these entities. today in poland, faced with a humanitarian challenge, we see clearly who is taking the exam in the hour of trial. these are citizens, ngos and grassroots movements. they have taken on the burden of helping the refugees. i am proud of the attitude of the people of my region and of poland as a whole, but our society needs support now and support as soon as possible. it is important that european funds go directly to local governments and ngos. the direct transfer of funds also ensures that they are well spent, because ngos and local governments are the closest to the people. last but not least, thank you very much, anna júlia donáth, for the great cooperation. it was a real pleasure working with you. i have no doubt that this war is the last backlash of nationalism in europe, and we have to follow towards the federal europe with ukraine on board.
mr. chairman, please! civil society has a key role to play in defending, in protecting democracy. and even when the rule of law is threatened, it shows its strength, because we are living in a time of nationalism, populism, an attack on eu values. we live in days of aggression, of state terror, of russian aggression against ukraine, against our brothers beyond our eastern border. and look what we have in poland in conditions of certainly endangered rule of law: strong civil society, ngos, and above all citizens are giving help to over a million refugees, refugees who are sheltering in poland from death, because they are threatened with death. and that help is coming from organizations, local organizations, community organizations, associations, ngos. it's possible because people are organizing and those people we need, we have to, we are obliged to help. that is why i, as the co-rapporteur for the citizens, equality, rights and values programme, call for a strategy for direct aid, because we have direct funding in this programme. citizens must be able to receive this help directly from us. i'm calling it from this very spot.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report on the role of culture, education, media and sport in the fight against racism contains many misconceptions. it calls for a frank debate on the history of racism in europe and its systemic nature. racism is therefore to be rooted in the societies of the european countries. and it's these kinds of claims that create these new and dangerous stereotypes. it is not to be remembered that the real root of europe is christianity, which has at its heart the inalienable dignity of the human person, which requires equal treatment of all people. it is argued that colonialism is the history of all of europe, without taking into account that the countries of central and eastern europe have no colonial possessions in their heritage. so we're also re-writing history. noble ideas are often used to achieve certain goals, such as censorship and restrictions on freedom of speech. and what are we watching today? he's withdrawing from the book trade and from the cinema industry any films that don't fit into the neo-marxist political correctness. the removal of one of the greatest masterpieces of american cinema, gone with the wind, from hbo's lineup is just the most egregious example. media, including social media, is becoming a tool to erase people from culture. monuments to historical figures are being destroyed, and scientists who hold unpopular views are being boycotted. it's getting to the point where a university professor is trying to prove that we listen to beethoven just because he was a white man. how far are we gonna go? are we going to burn books in the style of nazi germany? we are witnessing the emergence of a new totalitarian culture, a cancel culture à rebours, and the replacement of rational debate with emotional blackmail. let us use common sense to avoid bringing about the downfall of our culture and civilization, which is already threatened today by russia's barbaric invasion of ukraine. instead of censoring, let's educate. let's learn to think critically and independently. or maybe it's just to remember what the bible says, which this room would like to forget: "you shall love your neighbor as yourself".
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. there is no place in our society for racism, for discrimination. the european union must therefore take a decisive stand by adopting the report of the committee on education and culture at tomorrow's plenary session. the union's commitment to its motto 'united in diversity' requires active action to promote racial justice and to combat all forms of discrimination. there is no doubt that more needs to be done to promote a society built on pluralism, tolerance and non-discrimination, particularly in the areas of culture, education, sport and media policy. it's more important now than ever. these areas affect the lives of every european citizen and have a unique ability to reach each of us, creating context and meaning in our everyday relationships. education, cultural and sporting events and the information we receive through the media are vectors that shape and trigger changes in society and our behaviour. these are also areas where representation of diversity is of great importance in encouraging people of different ethnic or racial backgrounds, and especially young people, to pursue their own personal goals. as a former athlete, i would also like to emphasize our zero tolerance approach to racism or violence in sports. we therefore call on the commission, the member states and the sports federations to develop measures to prevent such incidents. we need to implement effective sanctions and support the victims of these acts and athletes who condemn racism and build diversity.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. for 13 days, europe has been at war. putin is murdering innocent people. putin is destroying cities and villages, destabilizing the entire european union energy. but for many years, there has been another war, a war on misinformation. we have warned repeatedly, because today not only ukraine but also russia is falling under daily attacks. the russians are fed putin's propaganda. russia is saying outright that it will create its own communication channels and that's how it will talk to its citizens. but for us meps, the commission, it is also a warning not to fall prey to this disinformation. remember how not long ago poland had to explain that it was not racist, that it did not divide ukrainians and that it welcomed everyone with an open heart and open apartments to poland. until recently, the president of ukraine was a nazi, and we were just repeating these fake news stories, not checking them. this is an important message for us. let's just be honest with each other. let's look for the truth. let's confirm it with multiple sources.
madam president, congratulations on international women’s day and congratulations to the author of this report, who anticipated that giving a free range to all kinds of aggressive activities by authoritarians will lead to something even worse. and we now have war in europe. we have been arrogant and naive, or rather some of you in western europe have been arrogant and naive, because putin has been at war with us for years. we, or you rather, have not been accepting it. but now that it is clear, because he’s bombing ukrainian cities, we have to do something about it. he has made a list of friendly and unfriendly countries, and we have to accept that there are some revisionist, aggressive autocracies that are at war with us, and we should therefore put together regulations that cause for money from those countries in politics to be the breaking of law. if you promote their propaganda, you’re breaking the law. if you give space to their media and social media outlets, you should be breaking the law. above all, if you help them to hide their money, you should be breaking the law. likewise, if you are helping them to acquire strategic or dual-use technology. lastly, and i know i’m beginning to sound like cato on carthage, but i beg you colleagues, what putin is doing in ukraine means that we need to get serious about european defence at last.
madam president! i am glad that important words were spoken here about limiting the influence of putin's propaganda in the countries of the european union. he is pleased that measures have been taken to restrict the activities of radio and tv stations such as sputnik and russia today. but it is impossible not to notice that in recent years putin has manipulated public opinion in the european union with impunity and with full premeditation. the destabilisation and incitement of social unrest in the member states during the coronavirus pandemic has been ignored. today we see the same anti-vaccine websites and profiles supporting putin's aggression in ukraine. a year ago, the german weekly der spiegel published an analysis of the manipulation of russia today in germany. that was a year ago, and today, despite this tragedy, the war in ukraine, the german chancellor says that germany will not give up russian gas or russian coal. the french president says russia deserves respect. yes, russia as a state yes, but not putin and his criminal thugs in ukraine. step by step, putin has been trying to prepare public opinion in the european union and russia for aggression against ukraine. an example is the attempt to destabilise the situation on the polish-belarusian border. how many fake news, also reproduced here, in this house, were aimed at my country, at the polish border guard, at the polish army, at the polish police! today we must do everything we can to make the civilized world say "no!" to putin.
in writing. the extent of misinformation is now visible. it is no longer a difference of opinion on specific issues but a false representation of events that is being publicly disseminated. in the second week of the war, there have been several attempts - both successful and unsuccessful - by ukrainian news channels and online platforms to mislead people through disinformation campaigns. this report sets out europe's weaknesses in detail: what are the main objectives, what are the motives, and what are the recommendations to strengthen our defence. the protection of european values also includes the security of democratic processes without interference from foreign bodies. i urge all colleagues to take these issues very seriously and to support the following recommendations.
good afternoon colleagues, i am very pleased to welcome oksana zabuzhko to this year’s celebration of international women’s day. on this day, the word ‘celebration’ is not, i think, a word we could use because the shelling of ukraine continues unabated. we have all seen, heard, and felt some of the misery of the victims of the aggression, the first of which are always women and girls. yet, in these dark days, we witness strength and we witness courage. in ukraine women are resisting, they are standing up, pushing back and taking up arms against their aggressor. so it is therefore even more important and a privilege to have with us today a ukrainian woman and writer, oksana zabuzhko, whose literature and strong voice exhibits the very strength of ukrainian women in the face of oppression. oksana, you left ukraine two weeks ago with nothing but your hand luggage and you have not had the possibility to return since. in russia and in belarus, women are protesting on the streets in an act of defiance against their governments. they do this in spite of the serious repercussions they face. to these women, we say: europe stands united, with you. we stand united with you. (applause)because there are no winners in war, there is only death. only the pain that someone bears when they are forced to leave their country, when they learn that their loved ones are not coming home, when they have to bury their children. colleagues, the brave and resilient women of ukraine serve as an inspiration to us all. because yes, there is extraordinary power behind a ukrainian woman asking a fully-armed russian soldier to put sunflower seeds in his pocket, so that if he dies on her homeland, flowers may bloom from his lifeless body. these are the acts of heroines, defending the same european values that we hold. on international women’s day, this european parliament will serve as a platform for the strength of these brave women to be shown to the world. oksana, you have the floor.
dear president, dear members, dear friends, i cannot be more appreciative for this invitation and for this unique opportunity to speak here on women’s rights day at probably the darkest hour in europe since 1939. for most of my literary career, i’ve been speaking for women and in the name of women. in my writings i have aimed to give voice to the experiences of women subjected to violence, to those living and dead whose feelings, ideas or accomplishments were ignored, devalued or simply forgotten. i’ve spoken for women’s rights to be free from discrimination and gender inequality, for their right to live in accordance with their own wishes and preferences. this, however, is the first time that i have to stand up for a woman’s right to life itself. ukrainians are a strong nation. this appears to have surprised many in the west. yet were it not so we would not have survived stalin’s genocide, the horrific man-made famine of 1933, notably still unrecognised by most of the countries represented here. and we are a nation of strong women too. along with the rest of the world, i cannot but admire, with tears in my eyes, my fellow countrywomen now fighting right alongside our men. they have joined the army and the civil territorial defence forces. they manage the distribution of supplies across our besieged cities, some of which, like mariupol, stand on the verge of a humanitarian catastrophe now. they give birth in bomb shelters supported and supervised by doctors online. ukrainian doctors meanwhile have created facebook pages offering instructions on how women over 37 weeks pregnant might safely deliver children in bomb shelters. an image that strikes me as almost biblical, as thousands of marys hide with their newborns, evading kind herod in basements, subway stations and other stables. yes, we are strong and grateful for your support and your admiration. the problem is that putin’s bombs will not be stopped by the strength of our spirit. and babies born in bomb shelters die of sepsis caused by the dust raining down on them during attacks, mary’s stable was much more hygienic. since 24 february, when russia launched its invasion, conceived as a blitzkrieg, only to be foiled by the ferocious determination of our military and mobilised civilians, one of history’s unshakable rules has been reconfirmed: in any ‘hot’ war women make the most vulnerable targets, if only because it’s women who remain to take care of those in need, of children and the elderly. and it is precisely this living shield which vladimir putin now uses to break ukraine’s heroic resistance. having failed to take kyiv, putin began shelling residential areas, including elementary schools, nurseries and hospitals. let me take the liberty of stressing this: every moment of hesitation on the side of western policymakers and the nato decision-makers about whether to provide ukraine with anti-aircraft weapons, not to speak of the no-fly zone, every coffee break you are taking during your discussions about how to interfere without provoking putin to go further, costs someone’s life. most likely a civilian’s – a woman’s or a child’s. after all, putin said it quite openly back on 17 april 2014, in the first act of the current tragedy, which he called special military operation ‘russian spring’, and which then resulted in the annexation of crimea and in creating two russian-controlled military zones in donbas, but was initially meant to accomplish much more. that day eight years ago he openly announced that russian troops in donbas would be standing against the ukrainian army, behind ukrainian women and children. i quote literally, not in front of them, but behind, daring the ukrainian army to shoot a living shield. a typical terrorist tactic. he was then so confident of his superiority, so sure that no one would dare stop him, that he did not even bother to lie out of contempt for his audience. isn’t it amazing, ladies and gentlemen, that no one, outside of ukraine maybe, took then his words seriously. in may 2014, after russian soldiers in donbas had already begun slicing open people’s bellies and shooting at teenagers for carrying yellow and blue flags, i was speaking in berlin at the european writers forum. and when in my speech i compared putin to hitler and stalin, the moderator was so shocked that my microphone was turned off, and in the publication the comparison was censored. eight years passed. so many human lives could have been saved if only the eu and the us would have woken up eight years ago to the fact that they knew hitler was ready to pick up where the previous one had left off. if the current package of sanctions had been applied to russia back then, right after the annexation of crimea, and evil called by its proper name and resisted, instead of being ignored and appeased, we would not be where we are now. i know my ‘ifs’ sound similar to the litanies that writers and intellectuals who survived world war two were proposing after the war ended. yet for me it is also a sign that we – and by ‘we’ i mean all western civilization, to which ukraine, with its millennium long history, also belongs – that we have not learned too much from history. putin deliberately imitates hitler. he even uses hitler’s very language, referring to the ‘final solution of the ukrainian question’ and barely disguising quotations from hitler’s speech at the reichstag on 1 september 1939: ‘i will not war against women and children. i have ordered my air force to restrict itself to attacks on military objectives.’ that’s from 1939, not from 2022. yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is the announcement of war. vladimir putin has done it in his tricky, perverted kgb language. but i am here to tell you, as a writer who does know something about language and how easily its power can be misused, that it is already a world war, not a ‘conflict in ukraine’ as it is still described in many western media. and that you better trust mr putin when he pronounces his ambitions. he has already claimed back the former soviet bloc, which is what he really means by demanding that nato pull back from eastern europe, and he won’t stop unless he is stopped by an international front of all those nations which still believe that freedom and human solidarity are worth more than gas and oil. ladies and gentlemen, you have all seen videos of how ukrainian civilians, men and women, stop russian tanks with bare hands and loud curses. here lies the secret of our heroism. we are not afraid of russia. of all the nations in europe, we know that what putin has for decades been selling to the west as the true story, his nuclear blackmailing included, is nothing but a pack of lies, illusion and bluff. we know this because we do have our share in the past three hundred years of russian imperial greatness, and by no means a minor one. that is why of all the nations, it is ukraine that has found herself at the forefront of this war. without us, there can be no russian empire, no evil empire, ladies and gentlemen – that used to be a good term, after all. first, there was austria, then czechoslovakia, then poland, then europe. first it was georgia, then belarus, then ukraine, afterwards europe. while i was writing this, my niece and her two children, one eight years old, the other eight months old, were driving from kyiv to western ukraine at a speed of 200 kilometres in 10 hours. the women of ukraine are fleeing en masse from the russian bombs threatening their homes, while ukrainian men stay to fight as long as it’s needed, to free europe from the spectre of the new totalitarianism. they all know their job, both men and women. please, don’t be afraid to protect the sky above them.
thank you so much, dear oksana, for those heartfelt words. we will now hear from the representatives of the political groups.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, thank you very much, oksana zabuzhko, for being today the voice of millions of women who are being attacked in their fundamental principles; refugee women who flee ukraine with their children, with their daughters; ukrainian women who stay in ukraine having to take care of the most vulnerable, because it is always us, the women, who are the most vulnerable in these situations. and that is why it is so important to hear oksana's voice today in the home of european democracy. this march 8 is important; this march 8 is different. but you will also allow me to make a reference today to the feminist movement in europe and in the world. feminism knows no boundaries. women have a common struggle for our rights, for our freedoms, and that is why today i also want to highlight the courage of women in ukraine, the courage of women in afghanistan, the courage of women in so many places in the world where speaking out means risking their lives. today we stand with all the women who are suffering, with all the women who are raising their voices for a more just, more equal world, where we have equal rights. this 8 march is important and european women cannot resign or sit idly by. there are many of us who need to be able to move forward in this world, in this more equal society. long live the feminist struggle! long live the 8th of march!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we have made advances for gender equality, but the pure fact that i stand here today, as a female politician and the president of my group, and the fact that we have a female president of the parliament, is unfortunately nothing to be taken for granted. it is the result of the incredible work of the many women before us who fought for equal rights and for gender equality. with that in mind, today becomes more than a celebration of women’s rights. it becomes a reminder of the hard work that we need to put in for women’s rights, a reminder of how much equality we’re still missing. in times of war, women are one of the most vulnerable groups, threatened by gender—based violence, fleeing conflict zones under horrible conditions and at high risk of human trafficking, while often being excluded from the formal negotiations to end the conflicts that they are suffering from. the idea of feminism is about creating a fair world, a world in which we can live freely, equally and in peace. in the last two weeks, we have seen these ideals demonstrated by the brave women of ukraine doing everything in their power to keep their families and their communities safe. i also want to stress that we see all the efforts of women in russia and in belarus protesting to show they disagree with this horrific war of putin’s, who is waging it against ukraine, all the while not forgetting the efforts and the suffering of women in syria, afghanistan, yemen and so many other conflicts in the world. these women show us what courage and resilience look like, and this is the courage that we lose when women are not involved in the decision—making processes. experience shows that, when women are part of the decision—making and peace-making efforts, the resulting peace is longer lasting and more broadly carried by society because diverse perspectives and additional knowledge are included. it is our joint responsibility to make sure that women around the world receive equal opportunities to get their feet in the door and take their rightful place at the table. feminism is the key to a more equal and more peaceful world, not just for women, but for all of us and for the generations to come.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to oksana zabuzhko for her words, for her testimony. today my thoughts go out to women of all ages who are experiencing armed conflict, forced displacement and migration, living in fragility and in all situations that can exacerbate inequalities and discrimination. the turbulence of all kinds that is sweeping our planet continually threatens the social and economic gains we have made, as they squeeze the democratic, civil and ethical space in which our being women is manifested. we have already experienced how the impact of the pandemic has disproportionately impacted women's status, affecting labour market participation, increasing precariousness, unemployment, widening the wage gap and creating penalties due to increased family and welfare responsibilities. gender-based violence in all its forms, whether online or offline, also continues to be a tragedy, with a significant impact on the exercise of rights and on physical and mental health. its prevention, prosecution, protection and victim support mechanisms always require continuous and constant efforts and resources. the backsliding on abortion legislation and the right to make responsible decisions about one's sexuality, including sexual and reproductive health, without coercion and abuse, is alarming. the issue of gender mainstreaming in european union legislation and parliamentary activities is another step towards that equality of rights which must allow people in their diversity to be free to live their lives and to achieve them with equal opportunities. the reflection that accompanies this celebration each year finds its deepest meaning in the renewed commitment of all to the fight against the removal of structural and cultural obstacles that limit participation in decision-making processes and generate inequalities in the path of women's emancipation. the promotion of equality is not only a fundamental value of the union, it is a human right, but it remains the condition for building a society that can guarantee equality, well-being, peace and security.
that concludes this special session. thank you once again to oksana and to all the colleagues who engaged in this very important debate.
we now come to today’s voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda and the voting session will be open from 12.30 until 13.45. the results of the voting session will be announced at 19.00. (the sitting was suspended at 12.52)
statements by the president the sitting is resumed. i wish you a very good afternoon on this international women's day: a strong and robust european parliament needs strong and robust leadership, and that includes women as well as men. (the sitting was resumed at 3 p.m.)
the meeting is resumed. i wish you a very good afternoon on this international women's day: a strong and robust european parliament needs strong and robust leadership, and that includes women as well as men.
the ppe group has sent the president decisions on the changes to appointments to committees and delegations. these decisions will be published in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the deteriorating refugee situation following russia's aggression against ukraine (2022/2575 ((rsp)).
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been shocked by the russian aggression against ukraine and the humanitarian crisis that has followed since 24 february. millions of ukrainians have left their homes to flee the violence of war. hundreds of thousands of ukrainians are seeking safe haven in the european union. at one point, the waiting time at the border on the ukrainian side was over 90 hours. the response of the border member states is a sign of professionalism and solidarity. in a very short time, contingency plans were activated, capacity at borders was increased and procedures were adapted to accommodate as many refugees as possible while ensuring security. the other member states also showed solidarity by providing support to ukraine, moldova and the frontline member states, and by making accommodation facilities available. in these tragic circumstances, it is obvious that concerted and rapid action is needed. the presidency therefore convened an extraordinary council of ministers of the interior on sunday, 27 february. it was decided to trigger the european union's integrated mechanism for political response in crisis situations, to invite the commission to activate the temporary protection procedure and to take the best possible precautions against hybrid attacks. we europeans all have a duty to welcome the hundreds of thousands of ukrainians, mainly women, children and the elderly, who are mainly in poland, hungary, romania, slovakia and moldova, but are also heading to other member states. a large proportion of them have a biometric passport and are therefore free to travel on the basis of the visa-free regime for a period of 90 days. at the council meeting last thursday, the interior ministers agreed to trigger temporary protection, which applies from 4 march to people who have fled the war in ukraine. the decision on temporary protection marks a historic moment for the european union. it is a strong signal of our unity, of our solidarity with those affected by russia's heinous aggression against ukraine. we have shown that we stand by ukraine and are able to work extremely quickly and efficiently to provide protection to those who need it most. it is important to emphasise that no one will be returned from the external border of the european union. all those fleeing the war in ukraine will be admitted to the union. the aim of this collective granting of temporary protection on the basis of uniform standards is to avoid lengthy asylum procedures for these people. most of the people fleeing the war in ukraine, who arrived at the border in the last days of the crisis, did not express a desire to seek asylum. they have only been in the reception centres for a very limited time and have then moved on to family or friends who can provide them with accommodation. several member states have made public transport free for them. in the coming days we will have a clearer idea of how many ukrainians need help to find housing. all member states have housing available. in order to coordinate humanitarian aid in the member states and to streamline the transfer of people between member states and to make optimum use of all available reception capacity, a solidarity platform has been set up under the coordination of the commission. in the coming days, the necessary legislative changes will be made to make the best use of the funds available. the presidency is also in direct contact with humanitarian partners on the ground to share information and to better understand needs on the ground. as regards humanitarian aid inside ukraine, no less than 26 member states and countries participating in the european civil protection mechanism responded to ukraine's requests. an incredible amount of medical equipment, medicines, but also tents, sheets, blankets and much more, were donated to ukraine. the distribution centre in poland ensures efficient transport to ukraine. further distribution centres will be opened in romania and slovakia. the united nations appeal launched on 1 march received a generous response from the commission and individual member states. the european union has announced a budget of €500 million and, on the basis of currently available figures, member states have already committed over €345 million for humanitarian aid. humanitarian partners on the ground are doing their best, but due to the brutal and arduous attacks, they have had to suspend their activities in a number of areas. it is obviously completely unacceptable that aid workers are not able to save lives. we are also thinking of moldova, a friendly state which needs the support of the european union. eight member states have already responded to moldova's request under the european union civil protection mechanism and have already provided tents, camp beds, mattresses, blankets, as well as country kitchens. i would like to conclude by saying that from the first days of the crisis, the frontline member states have done everything possible to welcome people who have fled war. meanwhile, the necessary mechanisms have been activated to optimise humanitarian aid and involve all member states in these efforts. we can all be proud of the solidarity shown by the european union and its member states towards ukraine and the ukrainian people.
member of the commission. – madam president, today is 8 march, international women’s day, so today i think of the young woman who, as putin’s rockets tried to kill her, gave birth to a new life in kyiv metro. little baby mia was born there. and i think of the 80 000 women in ukraine who are going to give birth in the coming three months. i think of julia, a young teacher. she first held a gun in her hands a few days ago. she cries, she’s scared, but still she goes to fight. she says, ‘i just want to live in our country’. i think of the young woman in poland at the medyka border crossing, where 23 000 people cross every day, pushing a pram with one hand, holding a toddler in the other, and a single backpack, all she has left. like her, about two million people have come to the eu, fleeing putin’s war of aggression. today, the commission adopted a communication detailing the gravity of the situation, the action we are taking as a union, the long and difficult road ahead, and calling for unity and continued support for refugees and member states in need. last week, i went to the eu border between romania and ukraine. i visited slovakia and the border between poland and ukraine. i witnessed the most impressive solidarity i have ever seen. in siret at the romanian border, i spoke to many women and the first thing they say is not how sad or scared they are, but how grateful they are to be welcomed with a bed and a meal. women, children, the old and fragile, often moving onwards to stay with friends and families, or with kind strangers taking them in. it’s heartbreaking, but the welcome is heartwarming. at train stations in poland, people stand with signs in their hands: ‘i can take in two people’, ‘i can take in a family with children’. last week, i spoke with presidents, prime ministers, ministers, mayors, border guards and civil society activists in these member states. i asked one volunteer in romania, ‘why are you here?’, and he just looked at me and said, ‘because we’re all human beings’. and, like him, volunteers, local communities, local authorities are rising to the challenge, opening their hearts and their homes, showing european values in action: unity, solidarity, humanity. it makes me proud of our european values, proud of being european. i see – and i saw – our member states handling this situation well, despite the very challenging circumstances. in poland alone, arrivals numbered more than 140 000 only in one day, yesterday. member states in the eu are helping the ukrainian authorities to reduce congestion on their side of the border. member states have increased staff at the border and set up the first emergency responses, like temporary shelters. last week, the commission issued guidelines to member states to ensure security checks and simplify and speed up border controls with ukraine. as a union, we are providing aid in the face of a humanitarian catastrophe without an end in sight: casualties mounting by the day, housing destroyed, water and electricity cut off, ambulances and aid workers caught in the crossfire. we directed more than eur 500 million, as was just mentioned by ms klinkert, from the eu budget for humanitarian support, in and outside ukraine. we provided eur 120 million in budget support for ukraine, eur 1.2 billion in emergency loans, eur 85 million in humanitarian aid to cover food, water, medicine and basic needs, eur 5 million to cover refugees’ basic needs in moldova, as moldova needs increasing support. through the union’s civil protection mechanism, 26 member states and norway are assisting ukraine with supplies with a value well above eur 100 million. slovakia and poland have also asked for assistance through the mechanism. we are working with the united nations, the red cross to make sure aid gets into ukraine. and today we call for the opening of humanitarian corridors so people fleeing war can leave and humanitarian aid can safely arrive. last week, i also witnessed one of the most impressive moments of european unity when we united to condemn putin’s aggression and support ukraine, and when the council unanimously adopted the proposal to activate the temporary protection directive. as you are well aware in this house, this directive is more than 20 years old. it has never been used before. never! but now you have called on us to activate it and now we have done it. it’s a unique and historic moment, and i think we should be proud in this moment. and the decision was a unanimous decision. all member states agreed to activate the temporary protection directive. but we need to recognise the graveness of the hour and the magnitude of the challenge, and decide as one to do what is needed, to do what is right, to provide protection, to provide it fast, to provide it now. from day one, thanks to the directive, people fleeing the war in ukraine will be able to get a job, send their children to school, get housing, social welfare and medical assistance. at one stroke of the pen, we scrapped a mountain of paperwork, supporting ukrainians fleeing war and relieving member states’ asylum systems. the protection in the directive applies to ukrainian nationals and their family members, and to refugees that are living in ukraine, like the afghan refugees who are experiencing again the nightmare of a sudden exodus, or belarusians who fled the lukashenka regime, but also permanent residents of ukraine. the temporary protection directive does not apply to students and tourists from other countries or others on short—term permits. we will soon present guidance to show how to practically implement the directive. a solidarity platform will share information on reception capacity and need for support, and the commission will coordinate operational response. it is clear that everyone – everyone – fleeing the war has to be let into the european union. this is obvious and this is what is happening. the fundamental rights agency is reporting what we have seen, i have seen it with my own eyes. everybody is allowed to cross the border and are welcomed into the european union. member states are doing their best to help third-country nationals to get safely home. the reality is that around 130 000 third-country nationals have already entered the european union from ukraine, including thousands of indians, nigerians and turkish nationals. don’t believe putin’s lies. if you are running away from putin’s war, you are welcome here in the european union. about two million refugees have now entered the eu, as i said. just to make a comparison, in 12 days we have received two million refugees, the same number as the european union received during 2015 and 2016 together. in 12 days. over one million in poland, almost half a million in romania, 170 000 in hungary and 130 000 in slovakia. member states have done, and are doing, a remarkable job setting up, and now implementing, contingency plans, opening new border crossing points and simplifying procedures. local authorities are ensuring reception and medical assistance, working hand in hand with volunteers and ngos. many people quickly move on to friends and family, to member states with a large ukrainian diaspora. last week, around 8 000 ukrainians applied for asylum, a fraction of the arrivals, actually. but this situation might change rapidly as more people flee the country. the applications so far have been mostly in sweden and romania. romania has asked for operational support from the european agency for asylum, which can help with asylum procedures and with the reception and implementation of the temporary protection directive. other eu agencies are also supporting member states. a total of 2 600 frontex officers could be deployed if needed. one hundred and sixty-five frontex officers are now deployed at the border, including with moldova. a further 162 frontex officers will be deployed to romania. apart from estonia, no other member states have yet requested frontex support. consultations are ongoing about possible frontex support to moldova. europol is also monitoring the situation and will send two officers to slovakia to help with security checks. preparations are ongoing for possible similar deployments to hungary and romania. europol support to moldova is also being assessed. besides solidarity and unity, we need money – money not only for reception right now, but also to help with education, jobs and housing for integration in our societies. today we propose, in another unprecedented decision, to give more flexibility to member states to use eur 420 million from our home affairs funds, unspent money from the previous mff, allowing member states one more year to spend allocated funds and flexibility to switch priorities so member states can commit more money to integration and to support people fleeing the war in ukraine. in the same way, we will free up money in the cohesion funds, the european regional development fund and the european social fund. we will also propose today to make changes to our funding rules for the asylum, migration and integration fund for the current mff, allowing member states, foundations and donor countries to provide extra funding to asylum and migration management. i count on you in this parliament to adopt these proposals without delay. time is short and the need is high. friends, before i conclude, let me also raise one of my big concerns, and that is about the children. we don’t know exactly how many children have arrived in the european union, but from what i could see with my own eyes when i visited the borders, i should guess almost half of those two million could be children. these children need to go to school. these children need to have some kind of normality. it is urgent to support the children that have now come and are fleeing from the war, but also to make sure that we can provide support for the most vulnerable children, the unaccompanied ones. you have seen the pictures. small children crossing the border alone with a small bag without any parent. and unfortunately, in these situations, we also know that unaccompanied minors are at a very high risk of falling victim to criminals that would like to use them for a different purpose, for trafficking, for example. we also have some reports of criminals taking orphans from orphanages in ukraine, crossing the border, pretending that they are relatives of the child and then using them for trafficking purposes. and, you know, trafficking in human beings is the most profitable crime ever. if you traffic drugs, firearms or smugglers, you can sell them once. if you traffic children, you can sell them again and again and again and again. we are obliged to protect these children, and i must say that we have to do much more than we have done so far. member states most affected are doing their utmost – their utmost – but we need to support them. we need to support the children better than we have been able to do so far. they need our support. because this will not be over soon. putin is fighting his war without restraint or remorse or mercy. more is to come. worse is to come. millions more will flee and we must welcome them. we are facing a great test and we can meet this test if we show the same unity, solidarity and action as we have seen in the past week. that truly makes me say i am proud to be a european. let’s meet this test together, in solidarity with ukraine, in solidarity with the refugees and in solidarity with each other in the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, this is a debate i never imagined having in my lifetime. a horrific war is ongoing on our continent, and thanks to the courageous work of many journalists we can see what is happening and the images are heart-breaking. we see death, destruction, families ripped apart, children running away from missiles and tanks instead of running behind a football, grandparents fleeing, in some cases again with whatever belongings they could take. unimaginable suffering and already over two million refugees have crossed into neighbouring countries, and more will follow. this is more than the total population of some of our member states. two million individual stories of separation, loss and pain. and when talking about refugees, we often speak about reception and protection in the region. well, this is our region. this is our continent and it’s our duty to step up. and europe is stepping up, and it’s heart-warming to see the warm welcome provided all over europe. the outpouring of solidarity in support of refugees, so many volunteers becoming active, so many donations being made, so many accommodation offers, and particularly in countries bordering ukraine, like poland, slovakia, hungary, romania, moldova, it is really impressive to see all the efforts by citizens and communities to take care of refugees, and we must help them not only in the short term, but structurally. we need to be prepared for any scenario. we called on the activation of the temporary protection directive, and it’s a strong signal that the commission and the council acted so quickly. it’s a strong signal that europe is united and that we stand with all ukrainians, because it’s an extraordinary moment and it calls for extraordinary measures, and our agencies should be deployed in the border to help in any way they can. and indeed, we should find the flexibility in our funding to help these member states take care of so many refugees. and you can count on the epp to do whatever is necessary. in the face of putin’s brutality, europe must continue to show humanity.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president! - i have to go. commissioner and minister! russia's brutal aggression against ukraine deserves the strongest condemnation from the international community, and the perpetrators of this evil should regret their foolish decisions and the tragic consequences that have resulted. the raids and bombings of residential areas and the blockade of humanitarian corridors by the russian army must be called a crime and stopped at all costs. poland and other eu countries have already taken in about two million refugees from ukraine, and we expect more to come. the eu institutions and the member states should be commended for the wide opening of their borders and the first humanitarian aid package for ukraine. however, we must remember to give ukrainians hope of a relatively normal life in the union also in the long term. the current assistance provided mainly by ordinary citizens acting on impulse must eventually be replaced by concrete financial and organisational support from the eu and national institutions. aid programmes must be directed primarily to local authorities, which already bear the greatest costs of direct aid. effective legalization of residence, workplaces, medical care and access to education for children must be organized to provide ukrainian families with peace and a substitute for normalcy after the atrocities of war. in poland, we say that true friends are found in poverty. today we are passing the greatest test of friendship, of community with european ukraine.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, ukraine is fighting for its freedom, is fighting for the security of europe also – a security which we built for the last 30 years. in this sense it is also our role to protect our security. some european union countries are more responsible for putin’s aggressive military posture. in this sense, they are more responsible for this role and we expect more contribution from them. the are a lot of instruments and sanctions to stop russian aggression: penalties, weapons for ukraine and for the security of our eastern front. sometimes it is not possible to immediately implement this instrument, but the hot issue right now is humanitarian assistance. delivering it to ukraine is extremely difficult, but we have to spare no effort to deliver. however, there are millions of refugees in our countries. in poland alone, as ms johansson rightly mentioned, there are 1.2 million refugees added to one million migrants who have emigrated to poland. we need, for such a large number of people, comprehensive plans and money, not only visits and bureaucrats on board, but money for the state. it is the states which create jobs, education and health programmes for these people. we have to avoid the creation of camps, ghettos and the palestinianisation of this refugee wave. we have to study the experience of turkey and lebanon. but let’s remember that we have provided turkey with more than 6 eur billion. are we prepared to provide the same assistance, the same plan, the same money to other countries which are coping with many more waves of refugees in the last few days than turkey?
madam president! in the current situation of danger, it is natural that not only ukrainian citizens seek refuge in poland, but also numerous citizens of virtually all countries in the world who are legally residing in ukraine, including students from africa, the middle east, asia, but also belarus and russia. it is worth remembering that one of the most important tools used by russia in its aggression against ukraine is the manipulation of information. poland is open to help refugees of all nationalities, i stress all nationalities. and reports of discriminatory treatment by polish services of citizens of certain countries were verified on the spot by diplomats of those countries and turned out to be fake news. representatives of many african countries, including heads of diplomatic missions assisting their citizens at the border, point to the excellent work, professionalism, and dedication of polish services and poles involved in helping refugees. examples include the thank-you letters received from the representatives of angola, azerbaijan, belgium, egypt, iran, israel, kenya, morocco, south africa, sierra leone, jamaica, syria, tanzania and zambia. so i have a heartfelt request to all of you who are replicating russian lies from this place: don't be putin's usuful idiots.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think we're all still deeply shocked by the russian invasion of ukraine. we all thought that such a war of aggression in the middle of europe was no longer possible. it is all the more important that we do not remain in this state of shock, but resolutely help those who are suffering from this war. all those who in recent years have wrongly described economic migrants as refugees - including those in this house - i say: look closely! look at the women and children coming to us now, fleeing the rockets and shells for their lives. they're refugees. they must be granted asylum without delay and without bureaucracy. poland, hungary, slovakia and others are doing great things in this humanitarian crisis. as a german, i say that you deserve our sincere thanks and, even more, our full solidarity. it is self-evident that we will not abandon our partners and will help in the reception and care of refugees from ukraine with all means. this is the hour of humanity and cohesion in europe.
mr. marshal, the high chamber! it's international women's day. i would like to greet all our ladies, those in this room and those listening to us, but especially the women in ukraine, those under bombardment, those at the front and those who, taking their children with them, left ukraine so that their husbands could fight for the freedom of their country. i also support the appeal of the first lady of poland, who appealed to russian women to try to stop this war. we know how draconian the penalties are in russia for even the word "war". but russian mothers can ask for advice, ask about the fate of their russian sons, the soldiers. it's still open. i'm proud of how the poles took care of a million ukrainians in our country. poles, local governments, even the polish government. i'm calling on the european union to make sure that the money that is needed to integrate these refugees is not tied to the rule of law, because time is of the essence right now. but i also have an appeal to the polish ruling party. the war that putin has unleashed in ukraine should not be used as an excuse to seek impunity for your theft during the pandemic. war is also a time to stop repressing polish judges. it's not a priority. the priority is to get 700 billion zlotys for the modernization of poland, including the modernization of the polish energy sector. end the war with the european union. let's talk about the war with putin.
mr president, in the face of the horror of putin's war in ukraine and the millions of ukrainian refugees, the decision to activate temporary protection is welcome. but i cannot help thinking of those syrian, afghan and libyan families, also fleeing the horrors of war, for whom temporary protection has not been activated. why would you do that? i cannot help thinking of those new countries that have been asking for solidarity from the european union since 2015 and have been denied it. why would you do that? i cannot help thinking of all those who have lost their lives in the mediterranean in the face of this lack of solidarity. why would you do that? i hope that this momentum of solidarity in the face of the ukrainian crisis will change our reception and migration policy, that it will be dictated by dignity, solidarity, but above all by the right to protection, without discrimination.
mr. chairman, please! well, putin can't fight any wars without money. poland warned you that if the union became dependent on russia, it would use that money for bad purposes. and instead of stopping the deal with putin, what did you do? you took revenge on poland. i counted 41 debates and resolutions against poland in this term. among other things? for not accepting refugees. what do you think today? we're showing you how migrants are different from the real refugees, who you keep in some humiliating camps, and we're bringing them straight from the border to our homes, almost a million of them. and instead of helping poland, you continue to pay 600 million euros a day to putin and for that money he murders people every day, 600 million a day. any thoughts? sure, let's see, what's the plan for tomorrow? there you go, the traditional sanctions resolution. who's it for? to russia? what is it? no, to poland. the eu needs change, but it also needs a commission of inquiry to find out who got europe to finance putin's war. for the german shoe and arrogance europe has already paid twice in wars. we can't let this happen a third time. oh, i'll tell you one more thing. many of you probably thought that ukraine would fall in two days, and she fought like hell, so your helmets finally arrived in ukraine after 12 days. i'm glad you did.
mr president, in just over ten days of putin's brutal aggression against ukraine, the majority of this european parliament has clearly expressed an awareness of the changing times - breaking point, time-changer - of the european union's accelerator and of european responses, including nothing less than the activation, at last, after more than twenty years since its entry into force, of the temporary protection directive. how many times have we asked the libe committee to do this? we required it in the syrian refugee crisis of 2015, in the recent afghan crisis... more than two million people, fleeing the war, have entered poland, hungary, slovakia, romania... and of course they deserve solidarity and binding relocation programmes coordinated by the commission. but we also affirm that the same solidarity must be expressed with all refugees, particularly women and children, without discrimination, whatever their race, origin, sex or religion. only then will europe really realise that we are facing a wake-up call, a real change of era.
thank you, eli, for taking a ukrainian family into your apartment. thank you, kasi, who is at the eastern station every day with sandwiches for refugees and refugees. thank you, annie, for taking the necessary supplies to the border and bringing the mother and child back from the border. thank you to suzanne, who brings food and medicine to the border for the animals. over the past 12 days, thousands of poles and poles have shown what solidarity is. now it's time for politicians to make decisions and take action. it is time to move away from drawn-out procedures when it comes to ukraine's status as a candidate country, because people's lives are at stake. it's time to accelerate the green transition, to fit for 65, not because climate catastrophe is accelerating, but also because rapid transformation is the guarantee of our security and independence. and it's time for an eu migration policy based on human dignity and non-discrimination, because all refugees are welcome.
i'm not going to let you down. more than two million refugees have already crossed the border into neighboring countries. in poland alone, we have received over a million people. yesterday alone, another 100,000 people crossed the border. today we brought the children of ukrainian officers who fight on the front. we bring in sick children, children with cancer, children with disabilities, adults as well. and in this situation, the poles have a big heart. they are now using their own funds to finance their stay in poland. meanwhile, 660 million euros a week is being sent to a kremlin thug for oil and gas. with that money, he's now waging his bloody invasion of ukraine. we need sanctions, but we also need measures, commissioner, as soon as possible, for poland, which is receiving the largest number of refugees at the moment, so that we can bring this aid together. the kremlin, putin is even attacking the humanitarian corridors. this is just a crime, this is genocide. we have to fight this. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is international women's day. i received a rose from our gentlemen here in the european parliament. i want to dedicate this rose to ukrainian women. you can do it! i want to dedicate this rose to the girls who have already been raped by the regime. you can do it! and i want to dedicate this rose to the polish women who are helping today, polish women in poland and in other countries.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i listened carefully to what you said, commissioner, because i know you were in poland. you were on the polish border and you know very well that in just a few days poland has taken in 1.2 million war refugees. it was poland that gave them shelter and it is poland that these war refugees are fleeing to first. and the involvement of polish government agencies, local governments, polish citizens is enormous. i'm proud to be polish. it's a pity you didn't have the courage to say it loud and clear. but let's look at the european commission's commitment to helping the countries that are helping and hosting refugees. well, ladies and gentlemen, this is aid that is really illusory, small, you could say, in the face of the catastrophe of war, even minimal, not to say none. we need some real help. the funds due to poland from the national recovery fund, which are unlawfully blocked by the european commission, should be released immediately. in the face of war and this tragedy unfolding before our eyes, it is time to act in solidarity. and i'm directing this call to the european commission and to the parliament, which wants to vote tomorrow on a resolution to block funds for poland. your hypocrisy is unfortunately enormous.
mr. chairman, please! is there a saying "with whom does russia border?" answer: russia borders with whoever it wants. for two weeks now, russia has been showing the world how much it doesn't want to be on the border with ukraine. for two weeks now, a russian roller coaster has been rolling across ukraine, destroying military, civilian, industrial and agricultural infrastructure, destroying houses in cities, destroying houses in villages, killing people. now, ladies and gentlemen, it's time for us to ask ourselves: do we want to border with such a russia? it's clear from today's debate that no, we don't want to be bordered by russia. ladies and gentlemen, we must be consistent. we must be very consistent and this war must end in our victory.
mr president, the images of putin’s callous and inhumane invasion of ukraine continue to be seen across the world. this unrelenting attack has forced more than two million people to flee for safety as europe embraces for the largest group of refugees since world war ii. the eu has acted, and will continue to act, in solidarity in dealing with the influx of refugees. in particular, the speed with which eu interior ministers were able to reach consensus on how to help those arriving from ukraine, after years of discord over eu immigration policy, is to be commended. for the moment, the pressure is on neighbouring countries such as poland, romania, slovakia and hungary, who are responding heroically by welcoming ukrainians. however, the burden of this influx is too great for any one country, and the burden must be shared. the devastation and tragedy in ukraine has been staggering, and the stories of tragedy heartbreaking. however, we also cannot forget that we are still in the midst of other crises, in particular afghanistan, where women, girls and lgbti community continue to suffer under the oppressive taliban regime since its takeover in august 2021. for better or worse, this is a defining moment for the eu, and this may finally be the time that we can agree on a consolidated common asylum framework.
mr president, the horror of the situation in ukraine strikes us all. most of us thought we would never see such scenes of war on european soil again. reality shows us wrong. the response of the countries bordering ukraine to the reception of refugees is remarkable and their spirit of solidarity is to be welcomed and supported. the council also decided to implement the directive on temporary protection. it's about time. i can't help but think of the syrians who could have benefited a few years ago, rather than being caught in a european chaos. i would point out, however, that a very wide margin of manoeuvre has been left to the member states. how can we then avoid applying the strict minimum in terms of protection to certain non-ukrainian nationals? how can further fragmentation in terms of guarantees and status be avoided? these issues will need to be monitored to avoid setting a precedent. finally, this exceptional situation and the mobilisation of europeans must not make us forget our obligations in other areas, including the reception of refugees from other parts of the world and respect for the rule of law.
mr president, commissioner, we are all shocked by mr putin's unforgivable attack on ukraine. with the escalation of the conflict, it is particularly important to ensure the safe departure of all civilians from conflict zones. the russian troops have not respected the agreed ceasefires, which is absolutely reprehensible. some two million war refugees have already arrived in the eu, and the number is set to increase many times over. we must, as a union, help people in need in every way we can. we must support ukraine's neighbours and do everything we can to break the lines at the border. it is good that the eu quickly adopted the temporary protection directive. the eu's uniform coordination must continue and there must be a willingness to introduce new mechanisms. the eu's refugee policy as a whole must also be reformed now, at the latest, for the longer term, because the security situation in europe and the world has changed and there is no going back.
mr. chairman, please! poland and its government are now seen as a refugee-friendly country that supports ukraine, but that wasn't always the case. poland is now being flooded with a wave of aid and solidarity. i want to make you aware of the fact that it is not the government, but the poles who welcome the guests - because that's what we say about ukrainian refugees - to their families, it is the ngos and local governments who organize this huge aid and volunteers are present everywhere where someone is in need. in this way, the poles restored the image of a welcoming and open poland to refugees, destroyed in recent years by the ruling authorities. i call on the institutions of the european union to provide funds for humanitarian aid to ukraine and for assistance to refugees in poland in cooperation with non-governmental organisations. i also call for the creation of costly humanitarian corridors that allow for the delivery of humanitarian aid and the evacuation of civilians from the war zone. but now, the help, the support, the warmth, the hope is reserved for certain refugees, those who are closer culturally, who speak a similar language. helping other migrants seeking international protection at the belarusian border is criminalised and those providing such support are persecuted. currently, the government does not allow ngos to enter the polish-belarusian border. let us not discriminate between refugees, as to where they come from, what color their skin is, or who deserves our help the most. the geneva convention applies to every frontier and to everyone.
mrs. hania from rybnik and the women's council are collecting donations, organizing with the local government and mr. mariusz overnight stays for refugees. mrs. agnieszka from wodzislaw took care of the meals. mr. mikołaj and the volunteers of the free space foundation from katowice took care of the meals at the border. they make soup for a thousand people every day. the transport of the gifts from germany is coordinated by mrs. esther of the hawk. in dąbrowa, mr. tomasz and his family made a house available to eight ukrainians. these are just a few examples of the beautiful solidarity of just one silesian province. the scale of this aid is enormous, but so are the needs. so from this place, i am calling for urgent, direct financial support for the people, not for governments that break the law, but for those who help, so that we can provide refugees with a decent life. there, the first line of defense is the citizens and the local governments. let us direct the eu's aid there so that it is well used. i also appeal to the polish and hungarian governments: the enemy is in the kremlin, not in brussels. you guys get it? and finally, a picture from kharkov yesterday that says more than a thousand words.
in writing. as a pediatrician by training, i am particularly concerned about the situation of children whom i see every day. i know that in the initial phase of the war, a lot was done to relocate children suffering from cancer to poland (and other countries neighboring ukraine). however, we must be aware that the number of available hospital beds is limited and is constantly decreasing. given that every day of interrupted cancer treatment drastically increases the risk of treatment failure and ultimately death, i call on the member states and the european commission to launch emergency procedures and to provide special protection for patients with cancer. i also call for all refugees to have access to free health care and free medicine. i am also concerned about the situation of patients in ukraine who cannot be transported to eu countries because of their health. i know that the hospitals there are struggling with a shortage of drugs, including cancer drugs. union aid mechanisms should therefore be activated to address these shortcomings. we must act immediately on both of these issues.
in writing. ukraine is fighting. it is fighting not only for its freedom but also for the security of europe, although the invasion is the consequence of the west's bureaucratic policy. the construction of nord stream 2 has been a central part of moscow's preparations for war against ukraine for years. the merkel-putin gas pipeline has placed europe in a third-class security zone" these are not the words of polish politicians or those from the baltic countries who have already protested against the construction of nord stream 1 so the german media writes today. ukraine was sold a long time ago. where are the great powers' guarantees of the inviolability of their borders when ukraine has carelessly given up its nuclear weapons? what happened after the annexation of crimea and the start of the war in donbass? nord stream 2 was a geopolitical project whose main goal was to bypass ukraine. in the face of war, it's time for solidarity. what do we see? to this day, berlin blocks an embargo on russian oil and gas. the eu is financing russia by paying it 600 million euros a day. the european parliament, on the other hand, is holding hate-sessions against poland, when poland, on a scale unimaginable in the union, has taken in over a million refugees in 10 days because those are polish values. what are yours? the money. well, you had a choice of shame or an embargo on russian supplies and a crisis. you have chosen shame, and you will have crisis, and perhaps war.
in writing. in the face of the threat posed by russia's attack on ukraine, i would like to draw particular attention to the situation not only of the ukrainian population, but also of the many citizens of all countries of the world seeking refuge in poland, including students from africa, the middle east and asia. poland is open to helping all those fleeing the war. we're prepared for that. in view of the high risk of armed conflict, we have been preparing for the current situation for some time. in the opinion of diplomatic missions, which are in constant contact with their citizens on the polish-ukrainian border, poland is well organized, the services are performing their functions properly, and the poles have shown great hearts and a great willingness to help. this is confirmed by the thanks received by poland from the representatives of angola, azerbaijan, belgium, egypt, iran, israel, kenya, morocco, south africa, sierra leone, jamaica, syria, tanzania and zambia. at this point, i would like to emphatically refute the reports of alleged discrimination by polish services against citizens of certain countries. the reports were verified on the spot by diplomats from these countries and turned out to be fake news. the polish institutions act in such a way as to safeguard the well-being of refugees of all nationalities, taking into account the specific needs of arriving persons, including women, children, the sick and the elderly.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i have been to sarajevo many times as a representative of the polish parliament in the framework of the central european initiative, and we talked about the future of bosnia and herzegovina, which was on the right and straight path to the european union. now it's complicated. we're in the worst moment since the end of the yugoslav war. the dayton agreement is being challenged by the republic of serbia, which has passed a series of resolutions aimed at separating the republic of serbia from many of the ethnic institutions of bosnia and herzegovina. it could just end up with the collapse of this country and a problem in the balkans. the problem is not only in republika srpska, but also in belgrade itself, where there are people who want to ensure their influence in the countries of the former yugoslavia. it is no wonder that the republic of serbia celebrated its national holiday on january 9. the military parade was attended by representatives of serbia, russia, china, who are strong supporters of the republic of serbia's desire to secede and join serbia. the european union must take a firm stand against serbia and the republic of serbia if serbia is to continue to join the european union in the near future. these rules have to be strict. if serbia benefits from this, then the european union benefits too.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. listening to some of your speeches, i have the impression that many of you have not yet realized that we are in a completely different time today than before february 24th. this is a time of war. we are at war on our continent, in europe, and we need to make decisions quickly, decisively and, above all, effectively on energy security. it is good that the commission has today taken the decision to stop the supply of russian gas, oil and fossil fuels to europe. it is good that lessons are being learned from past mistakes, but we must be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that renewable energy, green energy, the green deal, the fit for 55 project will not solve the problem of energy security. today we are in a special time and special decisions are needed, and so a revision of the existing energy plans here in the european union. for this time, wartime, we have to re-examine our negative attitude, the european union, to our fossil fuels, our european coal, our gas. you have to think about the atom. it's a green energy source, too, of course. this is the energy mix that will keep us safe. fit for 55 will lead to even greater energy poverty for europeans. we have to remember that.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we need not convince ourselves that this is a historic and unique time and we need to tell ourselves that our energy system does not create security in europe for our citizens and our economy. you have to learn from this, because only a fool doesn't learn from a situation when he has drama, when he's wrong. we cannot say that we are going to rush things because everything is on time, and we know that leaving russian gas is not saying that we will leave tomorrow. we have become too dependent in europe. it's going to be a process, and so we need to diversify our supply chains in the process and see what we have in europe, and we have, in addition to gas, raw materials like coal. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment in the union.
mr. chairman, please! do we really have to be gazprom's slaves? unfortunately, some countries have to pay the price for past mistakes, but it's better than to persist in hypocrisy. we're flying ukrainian flags, but we don't want to, at least some of the countries, to break off from russian gas and russian coal. meanwhile, the gas pipelines from russia are flowing with gas and blood! today, any honest politician must strive to ensure that europe is independent not of coal but of imports of raw materials from russia. producing coal in the european union today is not only necessary, it is our absolute duty in these difficult times. the question is, which is worse for europe: coal or russian tanks? today, those who despise our european coal despise human life. the european commission finally seems to understand the seriousness of the situation. frans timmermans recently admitted that some countries will have to use coal for longer to avoid switching to gas. these words give hope that the european commission is ripe for an energy policy based on facts, not ideology. the war in ukraine requires us to be mature. this is no time to listen to the sometimes harmful environmentalists when you can hear the blasts of russian missiles so close. it's time to really revise climate policy. time to get back to coal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the price of energy has obviously put a strain on the stability of our economic system, but the large countries of the european union must make a serious mea culpa. we have 185 billion cubic meters of russian gas in our energy package, obviously something, some calculation we've got wrong. the european commission's proposal touches on some of the most important points and we are glad to finally see some serious work on the subject of shared storage. the willingness to redefine energy price mechanisms: one of the most delicate issues. we must learn not to fall into the grave contradictions which have hitherto seen us as protagonists: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology. or, welcome the important decision to invest in renewables, but then let's see what an entrepreneur who decides to invest in renewables has to endure in terms of authorization. the commission's package gives us hope of a renewed capacity of the european union to have a european energy policy. far from falling into the contradictions of those who say that each country must go its own way in the face of this crisis, the alternative to a european energy unit would be the strange idea, which some are beginning to propose, of resorting to the deindustrialization of our continent in order to consume less energy. let us not do any of this and call on europe again because the price of energy... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! the war in ukraine has united the whole west and the whole european union. i am very pleased that the european commission and the individual member states are speaking with one voice. we have imposed very costly sanctions on russia, and they are already in effect. it's very good that nord stream 2 has been suspended. we're waiting for the end of this pipeline. but we need to take further steps. there's no question that the direction we're headed is a good one. the green transition is to become independent of raw materials, including russian. populists are questioning the green revolution. but let's remember, they were still in bed with putin three weeks ago. but we need an embargo on russian imports, including coal, and until the transition, we need to use our resources, even from silesia. we need a common action by the whole union on gas. we need solidarity and joint purchasing by the whole community. we are simply stronger together. so a short but very specific question to the commissioner: at what political stage is the construction of a common european energy union?
mr. chairman, the war we've been witnessing in the last 13 days has only confirmed what we've known all along. someone else is running our strategic interests, and yes, that makes us very vulnerable. and it is clear as day that without energy sovereignty and without stable energy prices there is no development and no progress. for that, we need a whole new approach to energy policy, and for that, we need a sixth gear. we need to accelerate the transition to renewable energy, diversify our sources of supply, better manage strategic stocks and invest in building europe's energy infrastructure and interconnections. to do that, we need clear objectives and even clearer deadlines. i'd say no more business as usual. commissioner, can you tell the citizens from this podium today that europe has a solution to this energy crisis and that it has a vision to protect citizens and provide them with affordable energy?
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for all your comments today. we are putting all of our efforts into reducing the burden of higher energy prices on our eu citizens. and as you have seen, we have taken action at a number of stages and this action has shifted as the geopolitical situation has in recent weeks. today’s communication responds strongly to both the rise in energy prices and the volatile situation in ukraine. it is both political and operational in its nature, and it sets out our plan for the upcoming winter of 2022 and in the medium to long-term it outlines our strategy to decrease our dependence on russia, and this will require a push in three main areas: diversifying fossil fuel supply away from russia, accelerating the clean energy transition and redoubling our efforts to be energy efficient. in this context, i would like to address the calls also heard in this house to review the fifth pci list to ensure it does not in any way benefit russia. and let me be clear that the goal of all the current gas projects on the fifth list is to increase the resilience of our gas infrastructure. and all the projects in the fifth pci list will contribute to either direct diversification by increasing access to the north and south gas corridor or lng projects, or enhancing integration of member states into the internal market, which allows liquidity, or increasing storage capacity and thus enhancing winter preparedness. altogether, these projects aim to create a more interconnected gas system, which is the only way forward to decrease europe’s reliance on russian gas, and the fifth pci list therefore will not benefit russia, quite the contrary. it will make it easier for us to decrease the use and individual member state’s dependence on russian gas.
the debate is closed. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
in writing. we condemn the russian military aggression in all its gravity. the war has caused untold security risks, humanitarian losses and has also deepened europe's energy crisis. to deal with a crisis, we must strive to apply three principles. first of all, we need calm, strategic calm. we need to secure europe's energy supply to keep our economies and societies running. to do that, we need all the reliable sources of energy, including nuclear power. we also need to protect all european citizens from the effects of soaring energy prices. it is unacceptable that the people pay the price of war. to prevent this, stable and well-functioning measures are needed. the hungarian reduction of rescission is one such instrument, which has become a model throughout europe. finally, especially now, it is imperative to preserve unity. we support any proposal that contributes to improving security of supply and keeping recession costs low. we believe that a calm, united europe based on mutual respect can solve the challenges we face.
in writing. poland is today one of the most independent countries in the eu. we have our own gas port, our own gas fields in the country and in norway. this year we're finishing the baltic pipe. we are not afraid to demand sanctions against russia and we are surprised to see how law-abiding countries do not want to cut off russia's cash flow. while the polish government was implementing a plan to diversify gas supplies, you built nord stream 2 and became dependent on russia. putin knew what he was doing, and today he's using it to pay for his war with eu money. and if they had listened to us, the eu would be in a very different place today. a few words about coal, because it's important in the context of what's happening now. we need stable and diversified energy sources, and the phase-out of coal mines and coal-fired power stations is a serious danger for the eu. coal cannot be seen in the context of poland, because other countries also have coal and lignite resources. germany is now the largest coal-fired power producer in the eu. coal is becoming the guarantor of our independence and we must continue to mine it. with the current gas problems, climate policy must be relegated to the background. the u.s. and canada already know that. china, russia and the rest of the world have always put security first and would never allow themselves to stop mining their own natural resources. i call for a review of the energy policy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! even a very interesting report with a lot of very interesting data, and i agree that we should work very hard on gender equality, because the term gender does not appear in any treaties at all, it has no legal explanation, it is vague in terms of concepts, and it is not binding on the member states and the european institutions in particular. but of course it's worth talking about ensuring equality first, for example in pay between women and men in the same jobs. it's just that for over a decade, there's been very little debate on this issue. i think that when we talk about these issues, it's worth standing up for the truth. for example, in my country, a woman, mrs beata szydlo, received the largest number of votes in the history of the european parliament, over half a million votes. and what is happening in the european parliament? it was cut down brutally. she has no right to be a mere committee chair. is this what it's like to have this respect for women who actually do a lot to make women careers? that's just one example. and in my country, too, the gender pay gap is probably the smallest. so you can do a lot, but you can say a lot and do nothing, i'm just embarrassed, the data is very good, but we're really not doing much about it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, gender equality is a fundamental principle of the european union which must be defended and implemented by all the european institutions, in particular the european parliament. the european parliament has made clear progress in its internal affairs, particularly in the proportion of its elected members. however, it needs to be more affirmative. i am referring to concrete issues, such as the representation of women in different functions in this institution, but also to a horizontal approach which should be reflected in all the policies of the european parliament. in this case, not only in relation to its own organisation as an institution, but also in all the subjects on which it works and expresses its views. we need more women representatives so that the gender perspective is present, whether we are talking about digital energy, the environment, the internal market, agriculture or transport. it is essential that the proposals and reports drawn up by this parliament promote greater participation and leadership by women in the different sectors of society, including scientific research, business, public administration and politics.
mr president, it’s a special day today, international women’s day, and it’s unfortunately a bitter sweet day, bitter because of what’s happening in ukraine and sweet because we have a bunch of good news, and let me start with that. today, the commission has announced the launch, the proposal of the directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence. the other good news – the women on boards and the pay transparency directives are unblocked and in progress. and is it good news for our colleague beata kempa, who was complaining about gender pay gap. here we are, and i hope they will be on the board supporting us. but let me congratulate both rapporteurs for their excellent work and, as the chair of the committee on women’s rights, i’m happy to see that parliament has endorsed gender mainstreaming and we are leading by example. it was said that 40% of the members of this house are women, but look around. what time is it now? that’s not the prime time for debate. this is the reality we are now. look at the speakers list. where are all our male colleagues on this list? it is not a women’s only topic. if you want gender mainstreaming, we need our colleagues, male colleagues on the board. i represent the femm committee. only two members out of 37 of my committee are male, full members. i am also a member of another committee where there is money and power – the budget committee – where out of 41 members of this committee, only 10 are women. doesn’t it show clearly the inequality in this house? this house, the sanctuary of the european democracy? there is much room for improvement, so i congratulate my colleague rapporteurs for their excellent work and i keep my fingers crossed for you.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, this year's international women's day is marked by the criminal and illegal invasion of ukraine and the largest exodus of refugees that we have experienced on european soil since the second world war. this exodus has a woman's face. just six months ago, we found afghan women returning to the hell they had emerged from 20 years earlier. the international community was dealing with a real gender emergency in afghanistan. these two realities indicate the relevance of the cap iii. the defence of women's rights and freedoms and their specific protection in our external action must undoubtedly be a priority for the european union. the aim of gap iii is to safeguard all that we have achieved since the beijing declaration: to avoid the setbacks in rights and freedoms that are taking place in many countries of the world and to move towards real equality. in many partner countries, women have little say and we must therefore give them a voice: they must be at the table and in the peace process; they must be in the negotiations and their needs must also be taken into account in the planning and budgeting of our financial resources in foreign policy. it has often been women who have raised their voices against injustice, the most. that is why, from the european union, we must play this leadership role at the multilateral level, with feminist diplomacy, gender diplomacy to raise the voice for all the women, today, who are in the front line in afghanistan, in ukraine and in so many, many countries around the world.
thank you so much, and i hope you can join us in our debate until the end of the debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the european union's external action in the fight against inequality cannot be based on ideological theories that undermine human identity: gender ideology is perverse, degrades women, pits us against men and destroys the family and society. third countries which need our support have the right to be respected in their identity and not to be contaminated by atrocities such as the promotion of abortion. it is a manipulation, a blackmail: exporting these theories corrupts their culture and their traditions, as is happening here in europe. we are in favour of promoting economic and social rights, equality, ensuring the autonomy of women and girls, but always respecting their essence and their greatness, never in opposition to men or in permanent conflict of the struggle of the sexes: we achieve progress together, man and woman, complementing each other. we denounce practices that denigrate the dignity of women, that affect their freedom. this action plan does not show this concern. we must transmit all the good that our european cultural heritage has left us, and not deprive them of the wisdom of our christian humanist roots.
mr president, this is the third action plan in a row that started 10 years ago to put gender in the limelight in our development and foreign policy. and i need to admit that i need to congratulate the commission and the commissioner for the extremely ambitious and fast implementation of these targets. this is so far the best programme, and the idea is that – as we heard – that over 80% of the activities should be in line with the gender action plan and integrating gender in foreign policies and in development. and we heard already that – was it 78%? – that this is already achieved. so congratulations, this is the direction to go in. but not to be complacent about what is done, i would like to look further at the upcoming challenges, and there i just would like to raise some of the points which the parliament finds extremely important. one of them is that we would have a special unit in the european external action service for gender activities and gender knowledge, and i think that that really would help us in our service units across the world – the limelight and to find the gender analysis in country politics. last but not least, one small but important point i would like to raise is that i hope that you could do all in your powers to find a way to help the female human rights defenders in our services.
mr president, commissioner, in 2005, i broke a glass ceiling: i became the first woman to preside over the basque parliament. one of the first calls i got came from here. that house had achieved parity thanks to a pioneering law that obliged political parties to include quotas of women and intersperse them with men in the candidatures. today, there are those who are discussing quotas, while the regional parliament, while maintaining that achievement, is taking a new step, improving that rule with new measures on equal pay or the fight against violence. i welcome this new communication to advance equality. it is a matter of laws and budgets, of comparison, of sharing good practices, of implementing what works, of pointing out reactionary ideas that deny even male violence, as some ultra-right party in the spanish state does. but let us not forget that it is also a personal, intimate task, which begins with each individual and continues in the family and the educational system. without that individual commitment, which is certainly catalyzed by these plans from the institutions, the results will be slow to come. we need to manage this effort in a feminine way, combining rigor and technical competence in the development of programmes with the management of emotions, because disarming the prejudices that promote inequality requires a lot of work in that area. the first argument to convince doubters is to inform them of the pleasure that the whole universe of emotions they renounce provides.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, respect for human dignity and gender equality is still a challenge faced by millions of women and girls in their daily lives, and we're spending the whole evening actually talking about it. today, we face many obstacles to empowering ourselves, and discrimination and in many cases domestic violence, exploitation and poverty are everyday experiences for many girls and women around the world. the g3 should be the framework for the active contribution of the european union's external action to combating gender inequality. it's in line with the sustainable development goals, but it's also in line with the civilization. the union should focus on eliminating violence and strengthen coordinated action to combat femicide and all forms of violence against women, online and offline. we are in a time when, in addition to the coronavirus pandemic, we need to talk about a shadow pandemic, a pandemic of violence against women. it happens in the home circle, on the streets, in parks, in shopping malls and of course in the off and online world. today, in the light of the aggression against ukraine, we are witnessing a crime against humanity, and we must look into the eyes of all these women and girls. the unesco gender working group estimates that 73 percent of women worldwide have been exposed to some form of online violence, while in the european union nine million girls under the age of 15 have already experienced it. the european union should promote greater participation of women, support and recognise women, young women and girls. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, yes, the legislative framework is growing, but what is its true application? the transitions we announce must include women, and the development of informed policies and the evaluation of political processes must be seen from another perspective.
mr president, today, on women's day, we are discussing the excellent report by our dear colleague, mrs chrysoulas zacharopoulos, on the action of the european union on gender issues, which i wholeheartedly and fully support. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be elected by the european parliament. but today all eyes and thoughts are on ukraine and the struggling, tested women of ukraine. the whole of humanity today is really bowing before the greatness of the soul and the heroism of the women of ukraine, of those women who did not bend in the face of the russian invasion, of those women who are still fighting even at this moment when we are talking about defending their homeland, of those women who are fighting and defending the universal ideals and the european principles and values. in the face of all these ukrainian women today i see the face of the cypriot women who in 1974 defended our country and defended freedom in the same and similar way. in the face of the ukrainian refugee, who took the path of martyrdom today with her children, i see the same face of martyrdom of the cypriot refugee mother, who has been waiting for 48 years from the refugee settlement to return. the same pain, the same refuge. we must send a strong message, mr president, by standing together here, that the european union stands united against any aggressor, against any occupying power, against any violator of international law.
mr president, commissioner urpilainen, we are debating in this european parliament the eu gender action plan iii in the framework of the european gender strategy, and we are doing so on no less than 8 march, international women's day, which must involve us equally with all women and men, and until we understand this we will not have understood anything. it has been decades since the constitutions of each of the member states of the european union - 43 years in the case of spain - prohibited all forms of discrimination on grounds of sex, and 13 years since the charter of fundamental rights of the european union also prohibited discrimination on grounds of gender identity or sexual orientation, and yet this battle remains essential for all. i would like to point out two objectives which can help to complete this european task for gender equality. firstly, we welcome the imminent fulfillment of president von der leyen's commitment to bring to this parliament a legislative initiative which, on the legal basis of article 33, would criminalise gender-based violence with a european law and protect victims of gender-based violence, but the task must also be completed by fulfilling the commitment, which must also be imminent, to reform the criminal directive against trafficking in human beings so as to criminalise the use of sexual services by victims of trafficking and therefore to make it a criminal offence to use and abuse prostitution which is perpetrated on and targeted at victims of trafficking. by fulfilling these two commitments, the european union will have taken a further step towards remaining a global example in the fight against all forms of violence and discrimination against women.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as i said in this house some time ago, in europe fundamental rights are for many but not for all. we often talk about freedom, justice, gender equality, but we can't even guarantee them here in our own home. unfortunately, not all the member states of the european union have ratified the istanbul convention to date. even today, before our eyes, thousands of women and children are victims of human trafficking, sold as slaves, killed or forced into prostitution. in some member states prostitution is still legal and is regarded as a simple job. there are still women out there who cannot even denounce their tormentors, as happened to the young anna borsa, who was unfortunately killed a few days ago in italy by her ex-boyfriend with an illegally-possessed gun after being attacked countless times. his only fault was that he broke off a relationship with a person who was obviously ill. because sometimes living in small towns, where you know everyone, it gets psychologically difficult, because society still blames you. unfortunately, many women are still unaware of their rights, their worth and their strength. our task is to take them by the hand, to offer them the moral and material help they need, to restore their hope, to encourage them to fight and not to give up. only joint action at all political levels and in concert with civil society can really bring about that change on paper that has so often already happened but is hardly visible in everyday life.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this, i would say, empowering debate. i could not agree with you more. there is definitely no time to lose, especially considering what is happening right now in, for instance, afghanistan, but also in ukraine and other countries where conflicts hit women hard. so my heart goes out to the millions of women and girls whose rights and safety are under threat at the moment. the eu will continue to be at the forefront of efforts to protect them. for instance, in afghanistan, we are insisting on women’s rights and girls’ education. it is one of our red lines because an empowered, educated girl is an immense force for change, for her community, but also for her country and the entire world. we are closely monitoring developments and i will not waver from this commitment. i look forward to continuing to work with you on women’s empowerment and gender equality.
the debate is closed. the vote on this report will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the european union authorities still lack the capacity to achieve fundamental objectives and act in accordance with fundamental values. i would remind you that the values of our community are the dignity of the human person, freedom, democracy, equality, respect for human rights. the authorities continue to set visions, plan and set indicators, instead of acting and actually building equality policies, societies and economies. can the european union be the world leader in equality, set the world standard, promote equality in the world, when tens of millions of our community citizens cannot feel safe in their own homes, when they have no access to health care? the first half of this term has been wasted, we have not taken a single step towards the eu ratifying the istanbul convention. violence against women is still not included in the eu list of crimes. let us remember that violence against women is the most drastic form of gender discrimination and that gender equality will never be achieved without an effective fight against violence against women. and we cannot help but mention reproductive rights. millions of european women do not have access to legal and safe abortion. in poland, there are women who don't have access to gynecological counseling just because they were born and live in the countryside. i think it's time to stop with the nice words, the nice visions, the nice reports and start fighting for the human rights of women!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. ladies and gentlemen! the economic policy coordination of the european semester has taken on a new dimension in the context of the covid-19 pandemic and its economic and social impact. but the war in ukraine changed all that. we have a deep humanitarian crisis. we said not long ago that europe would be looking for five million refugees. today, there are seven or more refugees. we don't know that, because this development is completely unpredictable, just as the consequences, the consequences of this crisis are unpredictable. today, we are looking at the challenges that we face, both those related to the reception of refugees and those that are also the consequences of covid, so on the labour market, on employment, on the deepening of social inequalities or the fact that many young people have lost their jobs or found precarious employment. we have a housing crisis, we have a declining birth rate, we have challenges at the eu and the member states level. they will also change because of the war in ukraine.
in writing. the european semester, as a tool for the coordination of economic and budgetary policies in the eu, is needed to bring the eu economies closer together and to free public finances from excessive debt. the annual growth analysis for 2022 indicates the need to further enhance macroeconomic stability, and therefore economic policy coordination in the eu should serve sustainable and balanced economic growth. in this context, the green and digital transformation must be a real support for it, while the current union climate policy is very costly and hurts the development potential of countries such as poland. the current difficult economic reality, the consequence of the covid-19 pandemic, high inflation, and now the threat of large-scale war, has made planning in principle very difficult, and the dynamics of change are not making it easy. i therefore believe that the deactivation of the general exit clause in the stability and growth pact should be approached very carefully, so as not to aggravate the economic difficulties in those countries where the situation is difficult. in particular, the annual analysis of economic growth for the current year was published in 2021, when there was no war in ukraine. the economic policy of the present time is not easy and the return to stable and rapid growth is complicated, therefore the measures in the form of the national recovery plan should be unlocked for poland as soon as possible in order to support the recovery of the economy.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we used to call the soviet union ‘the empire of evil and the prison of nations.’ now looking, listening to news after the bloody, awful, full—scale, cruel aggression of russian federation on ukraine, we feel an unbearable déjà vu. once more willing to call it like this. ukrainians fight what we call ‘bellum iustum’ – a war that is just – because with arms in their hands, they defend their territory, whole territory, internationally recognised territory. they defend their families, innocent civilians against an enemy, against war crimes, against crimes against humanity, because we see traces of this, not only traces, actually already many documented cases. unfortunately, future security of our continent and probably global security, very much depends on the result of this war, and therefore we have to do our utmost to stop it. how to respond proportionately, madam president, to killings of innocent children only 18 months old and how to use strategic patience when we have these kinds of results. the only way i see, is that after the surrender of the russian federation, full rejections of neo—imperialist ambitions of will. and that is not only putin, that’s sure. the will to stay aggressive vis—à—vis neighbours and much more beyond. we have to work to this end.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. welcome to the prime minister's office. the unlawful attack on ukraine has shocked many people. many are now fearful that this war could spread to other lands and lead to an escalation between nuclear powers. we must do everything we can to prevent this scenario from happening and to bring an immediate end to this war in the heart of europe. the european peace order is being destroyed by every air strike, by every grenade, by every bullet fired, and the existing global security architecture is being shaken. vladimir putin bears the responsibility for this without a if and but. i also want to say at this point that this cowardly attack challenges my own political views and forces me to wrestle with new answers. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. my thoughts are with the brave russians who are taking to the streets not only against the war but also against the increasingly dictatorial rule of putin, at great personal risk. we need effective sanctions against putin and his oligarchs. only if you hit his power structure, you're attacking his power base. we are going to join their villas, their yachts, we are going to track down their dirty money and we are going to make this wealth available for humanitarian purposes and for the reconstruction of the destroyed cities in ukraine. but for targeted sanctions to really hurt, there must be an end to oligarchs parking their money in eu tax havens. we need tax transparency, eu-wide real estate registers and strong regulation of cryptocurrencies. in the long term, the european union will only be able to play its role in a new global security architecture in a credible way if it is self-sufficient in energy. renewable energies must now be developed, and there is a need for sustainable european food sovereignty, autonomy and public control in critical infrastructure such as the semiconductor industry, health care and public services. ladies and gentlemen, there will be a time after this terrible war. and while many certainties are being called into question these days, one conviction remains: the world is not made safer by armaments and military force. if we are to guarantee a peaceful future for our children, we need concrete steps to disarm, to strengthen international organisations, to put an end to weapons of mass destruction. we will continue to work on a security architecture based on international law and on the peaceful resolution of conflicts through diplomacy and not war.
(the beginning of the speech is heard without a microphone) ...of military aggression. it is in europe's common interest that peace and security be restored to ukraine as soon as possible. importantly, the nato foreign ministers decided on friday that nato would not be part of the war and that the war should be prevented from spreading beyond ukraine. this requires strategic calm and responsibility. we must avoid any steps that would drag our country into the war in the neighborhood, endangering the security of the hungarian people. hungary is committed to restoring peace. i was at the hungarian-ukrainian border on saturday. i saw the refugees coming in droves, almost all women with children. as one person, the country helps them to come from any part of ukraine. one of the biggest humanitarian actions in hungary is taking place, and that is why the many malicious falsehoods and disinformation that are being spread against us, which even endanger the security of hungarians living across the border, are incomprehensible and condemnable. in a war situation, every word has an added power. i'm asking everyone to stop spreading malicious false information.
madam president, putin’s plan to steadily expand aggressive russkiy mir has turned into a brutal war against ukraine, a human tragedy and become a litmus test for the eu and the west in general. let us recognise that ukraine is a welcome candidate to our family. let us help repel the aggressor and let us give them all the support they need. let us provide a safe haven for ukrainian women, children and elderly people who are forced to flee. we have no right to let srebrenica happen again. we must do everything possible to return the sky over ukraine to a peaceful blue and to make the evacuation of civilians safe. let us create an eu civilian force that can ensure the safety of evacuation at short notice. colleagues, no-fly zone, no europe zone. the european union’s response to the aggression against ukraine must be based on a principle, collective victory or collective failure, and i believe only the latter is not a choice. long live european ukraine!
madam president, jean monnet was definitely right when he wrote in his memoirs, ‘europe will be forged in crisis’. the eu’s response to the terrible crisis provoked by putin’s invasion of ukraine has been swift, united and strong. it’s an answer that lives up to the seriousness of the moment, the worst security crisis in europe since the end of the second world war, and it has allowed us, eu citizens, to feel convinced that, by helping ukraine in almost every way we can, we are defending the pillars of our common european house as well. whether this determination will lead the eu finally to become a geopolitical player is still to be seen. we have progressed a lot in just a few days, it’s true, but there is still much more to be done and much more convergence in foreign and security policy to be achieved. what is for sure is that the eu’s response has been one of putin’s many miscalculations. he expected the usual disunity and vague diplomatic jargon, but instead he has got unprecedented sanctions for his regime and unprecedented solidarity with ukraine. it is now of the utmost importance that the eu’s unity and solidarity holds in the event of a prolonged war, and even when the economic reverberations of the war start hitting our economies. our unity will be key to make putin end his bloody war. while decisive progress in shaping our own security and defence is to be expected in the months to come, we must not forget or relinquish the role that real diplomacy will have to regain at some point in this painful conflict. the sooner, the better. we will also have to be ready to play a key role in that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine is a tragic folly. the military aggression of putin's russia against ukraine must be condemned in the strongest terms and stopped as soon as possible, using the weapons of diplomacy to restore peace. we are facing a dirty war, which is causing death and destruction among civilians, and which threatens to upset the whole world. the war in ukraine is of great concern to all of us, because it is an attack on our values and on the whole free west. the nuclear threat posed by putin is a threat to world security, to the security of each and every one of us, and we cannot afford to play it cool. we all have a duty to defend our freedom and our democracy by all means. this must be our mission in the face of global threats coming at us from dictatorships and regimes like communist china, iran and the islamic pashdaran or putin's russia. to overcome these challenges we must be united and strongly re-launch the alliance with the united states of america; it is time to strengthen the atlantic alliance, it is time to build a strong alliance with israel, it is time to create a special relationship with britain and the countries of the anglosphere, which are key allies for common security and defence policies. europe must be held accountable for the ambiguities, duplicity and mistakes made in these political parties over the years. ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine has brought us to a crossroads in history: the european union has a long history of supporting the democratic process in the west, and it is not just the european union that is responsible for this. we stand with the ukrainian people, for good to win over evil, for peace to stop the bombs and for freedom to triumph over dictatorship.
madam president, prime minister, high representative, i have to tell you that the people of the united kingdom are not going to be able to vote for the new government. real sanctions yes, but without exceptions. russia is a major exporter of arms and raw materials. if the countries of our union say: sanctions yes, but..., then it will be a gift to putin and it will be a show of solidarity. the president has spoken of peace talks under the auspices of the united nations. tomorrow, on turkey's initiative, the heads of the foreign ministries of ukraine and russia will hold talks in turkey. we have no control over these conversations. for a negotiation under the auspices of the un, perhaps we would have one. some were faster, some were slower. it is a beautiful metaphor, mr president, about the garden and the jungle of europe. except there was a lack of solidarity in that garden. in our garden, there were internal disputes and attacks on countries that border the jungle. now i want you to promise me that these attacks will never happen again in a jungle invasion. especially to countries bordering this jungle. and finally, a few words about nato, because that's what we're talking about. i am glad, i hope that finland will make this decision. especially after the talks last week between helsinki and washington. and one thing that is very important is that nato acts together, not that individual countries make decisions on their own, because there will be no decisions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the barbaric war of aggression against ukraine is, as several speakers have already emphasized, a turning point. the certainties of the last three decades since 1990 have finally lost their validity, the world of power competition is back. we must learn again as europeans to defend our values, to name and assert our interests in the world. in order to ensure our freedom, security and livelihood in the long term, europe needs a reality check. yes, we urgently need a fundamental reorientation of our foreign, security and defence policy. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union's external relations are not compromised by the threat of a nuclear war. the european parliament has for years, by large majorities, made concrete proposals to this effect, most recently during the plenary debate and the plenary session here in strasbourg, where the two reports were adopted. let us now finally take concrete steps towards a european defence union - in close coordination with our neighbours, in close coordination with our nato partners - and do so quickly and with commitment.
madam president, prime minister, high representative, i have to tell you that the people of the united kingdom are not going to be able to vote for the new government. "how many more of your children will not be killed in your war?" - ukrainian band okean elzy sings. unfortunately, war has just returned to europe and is knocking on our door as well. the coordinated aid and sanctions actions have shown the union as a strong bloc that will not, contrary to the hopes of crazed dictators, merely watch the war on its borders. our sanctions have excluded moscow from the civilized world. we must continue to act together as a union to strike at the kremlin with devastating force in the russian economy. these sanctions must hurt putin, the oligarchs, their families and unfortunately also ordinary russians. why would you do that? because social discontent and rebellion in the power circles can prevent the escalation of the conflict and further crimes of this madness. will the sanctions hurt us? yes, we are waiting for the commission's strategy to limit the negative impact of sanctions on europeans. but there is a price we will pay for defending our values. we must do everything we can as a community to ensure that europeans do not have to sweat and cry again.
madam president! prime minister! your highness! ladies and gentlemen! this is a trial period. this is a time of responsibility and solidarity for the whole of the european union, for the whole of the civilized world. we stand today against an invader, an aggressor. and we have to stop putin. we must support ukraine, because this is a matter of the future and security of all of us, of all of europe. so it's time to stop making fiery speeches and start acting. and we must also talk about these issues here, because this is also the time for this house, the european parliament and the european commission to take responsibility. it cannot be, ladies and gentlemen, that in the most difficult time poland, which, like estonia, is helping ukraine with all its might, the refugees, where every polish family welcomes and extends a helping hand to ukrainians who find in poland a new home and safe refuge, is punished by this chamber. and once again today there will be an attempt to pass a resolution against poland, an attempt to stop and stop the disbursement of funds to the polish government. it can't be like this.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. prime minister! ladies and gentlemen! yes, this is a historic moment of trial for us, because this war is about us, the future and security of europe will be decided in ukraine and that is why we cannot be just a little bit on the side of ukraine and at the same time pay putin a little bit so that he continues to arm this terrorist army that today murders ukrainians, innocent children, innocent civilians. we must be fully united and fully consistent in our actions. a full embargo on gas, coal, oil, because we can't give a single euro to putin, who is a terrorist today. his place is in the hague. he must be judged, and we must be united and united, because there are putin's henchmen in this room who want to weaken sanctions and dismantle a common europe. the future of europe must be secure, and therefore it must be united and united. and just as the ukrainians need weapons and safe skies above them today, so do these fleeing mothers and children need support. i'm calling for this, for the immediate mobilization of resources for local governments and local authorities to help them, because they need our help.
madam president! prime minister! i would like to thank you for your vote, the vote of political realism of the policy of a country neighboring russia. we, the people of central and eastern europe, must today call to mind, in this house, the voices of realism coming from countries which have had a difficult experience of centuries of neighbourhood with russia. it doesn't matter if it was bolshevik russia or if it's putin's russia today. she's always wanted to subjugate our countries. that is why the policy of soft power, the policy of subordinating security, including energy security, to the interests of individual states, today ends in barbarism and the murder of the civilian population in ukraine. when polish president lech kaczyński spoke in tbilisi in 2008 of the prophetic words: today georgia, tomorrow ukraine, then the baltic states, and then it will be time for my country, poland - in many western european capitals, including this house, there were voices that this was an exaggeration. when the government of prime minister jaroslaw kaczyński started the construction of the gas port in świnoujście, there were rumors from germany that this was a hoax, and that the construction could endanger the bats that inhabit the destroyed bunkers left by the nazis on the island of wolin. today, the german mecklenburg district refuses to accept ukrainian refugees. why would you do that? because they think they're going to be a threat to critical infrastructure. what kind of a problem? yes, this is the intersection of nord stream 1 and nord stream 2. if the individual states continue to pursue this type of policy, putin will continue to murder innocent ukrainians. the only way we can stop putin is if we stand together, if we are one fist.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the world economic forum estimates that to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy, global battery production needs to increase by a factor of 19. the production and use of batteries and the disposal of waste batteries are cross-cutting issues that affect many policy areas. the report on batteries and spent batteries is a document that should take into account the economic and environmental conditions of all member states. only this approach will allow it to add value to europe's green transition. it is necessary to consider whether the proposed changes will not limit innovation and consequently increase the price of batteries and accumulators, which could create a clear problem, especially in the transport sector. with the sharp increases in fuel prices and the proposed road ets surcharge, the increase in battery prices will make it even more difficult for all citizens to switch to a different form of driving. the commission has not found that the measures in question are in line with the principle of proportionality. the commission has already taken into account the fact that the electric mobility market is a strategic issue, which is of great economic importance, but also of great strategic importance from the point of view of safety.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. batteries are so common in human life and cause so much trouble and worry that it really seems necessary that we not only analyze but try to regulate. i am very glad that we are talking about producer responsibility here, because it cannot be that the consumer is always condemned to think about how to dispose of the equipment he uses. unfortunately, i have a lot of concerns about the implementation of this document. first, for a few weeks, months, we have a changed world -- not just a war that brings death and exacerbates the economic crisis, but we have an energy crisis. so what we should do, and i hope we will do in the trilateral meetings, is put all these changing realities on paper, to recognize that we really want to achieve the goal, and not just say we have ambition. i want to remind you that lithium has increased fivefold in one year, that lithium mining is causing destruction - not just deforestation, but air pollution. we can't pretend we don't see this. yes, we do, but we don't really have any mechanisms. you tell the manufacturers who want to make batteries that they will not turn a blind eye to how lithium and cobalt are extracted. we have no guarantee that a european producer, for example, will not buy from a mine like this, but there are dozens of other producers who will buy it at twice the price. let's be realistic, because that's the only way we're going to be able to achieve our goals.
the next item is the report by mrs grace o'sullivan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a general union environmental action programme for 2030 (com (2020) 0652 - c9-0329/2020 - 2020/0300 (cod)) (a9-0203/2021).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the 8th environmental framework plan to 2030 is a policy objective. these are very often good ideas, good indicators, but very often utopian. the rapporteur, who worked hard on this document, said in a passionate speech: let's go beyond the gdp paradigm. we must think of every european. you can handle it, the commissioner can handle it, or the chairwoman. because we have secured other means of subsistence. the average european counts money every day. these changing energy prices, changing fuel prices - he's going to have to bear the cost. without him, there's no plan. without him, without the man, without the european, there will be no action. the commissioner speaks of prosperity. everybody thinks that, everybody wants that. but, commissioner, the 'fit for 55' package is reaching deep into the pockets of europeans. he says to europeans: we will go into your homes, we will go into your cars, we will go into your fields, we will go into your places of residence, into your planes, into your holidays, and we will say pay, pay a lot. because that's the idea. i'm not gonna go along with this. euractiv reports today that the germans have said they are activating all their coal safeguards. in times of dramatic economic crisis, energy crisis, war with ukraine absolutely and in no way can you withdraw from subsidies for everything that is mining. we will not replace it with wind farms and photovoltaic panels. i don't have the time or the space to argue about how greenwashing is the production of wind turbines or photovoltaic panels.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the overall objective of the eu's eighth environment action programme is to accelerate the transition of the european union to a climate-neutral economy. in poland, my country, whose energy economy is largely based on fossil fuels, one of the sensitive points of this programme is the provisions on the withdrawal of environmentally harmful subsidies, including for fossil fuels. the ecr will vote against the eu's environmental action programme because, firstly, it calls for the withdrawal of subsidies for fossil fuels, which would be extremely time-consuming and costly to replace with alternative energy sources, and is therefore a burdensome requirement that is impossible to achieve in the short term, especially now during war. secondly, the nature of the plan does not justify addressing issues relating to future obligations of member states in the plan and the date of withdrawal of fossil fuel subsidies should be set in a separate legal act. third, the scheme is being introduced in the context of an unprecedented energy crisis, but it does not address the issue of energy poverty. fourthly, the action programme does not take the opportunity to include carbon sinks, which have a high potential in agriculture, where co2 is absorbed by the soil.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 march 2022.
the next item is the report by marianne vind, drawn up on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the new eu strategic framework for occupational safety and health beyond 2020 (2021/2165 (ini)) (a9-0023/2022).
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: ladies and gentlemen! workers have the right to a high level of health and safety protection at work, in accordance with the tenth principle of the european pillar of social rights. eu legislation on osh plays a key role in implementing this principle and protecting almost 170 million workers in the european union. the review of the strategy for 2021-2027 is a unique opportunity to set priorities and actions for the coming years, not only for the european union after the pandemic, but also in the light of changes in the labour market related to the digital transformation, the ecological transformation. the pandemic has shown that european regulations are not up to date enough in the face of such rapid change. the new reality of the digital age requires a new level of protection, including against imbalances. teleworking, which many of us are experiencing for the first time, is not only more flexibility, but it's also blurring the line between our personal and professional lives. the ecr group generally agrees with the strengthening of the policy under the osh strategy as this is the key to improving the health and quality of life of eu workers. we support many of the elements in the rapporteur's text, such as the concept of a 'zero vision' for accidents and occupational diseases, the updating of the directive on carcinogens and mutagens, the idea of fighting asbestos and the call to combat musculoskeletal disorders. but the scope is so wide that the final text contains many elements, initiatives, which my group, the ecr, cannot accept.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! every worker has the right to a high level of health protection and to a safe workplace. this fundamental principle is the cornerstone of european social rights, the effective enforcement of which is intended to ensure safe and fair working conditions for nearly 170 million workers in the european union. we have to remember that the job market has changed dramatically since 2020. the covid-19 pandemic has created new opportunities for both workers and employers. with the new benefits comes the responsibility to secure and update osh legislation to meet the new realities of the digital age. in addition, we must not forget the manual workers, especially those who work outside their country of origin. the safety and health conditions at the workplace for such workers are often reprehensible. this is particularly true for workers from central and eastern europe. this report is another step towards improving safety and health at work in the european single market - a market that is changing as fast as the international situation is changing. the war in ukraine has led to the exodus of millions of war refugees to the member states, and more are arriving every day. these people will soon be part of our workforce. when we make laws, we have to remember that, and we have to remember that the human being should always come first.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! eu citizens should feel safe in their workplaces. unfortunately, many accidents still occur in our workplaces. in 2018, there were over three million. this is why it is so important to improve the functioning of the eu regulatory framework for osh and to focus even more on prevention. inspections play an important role in this process, but training also plays an important role. we need to make sure that all employees have access to them and that they have the resources to do so. unfortunately, many eu citizens also suffer from occupational diseases. the most serious of these are cancers, which account for over 50% of all work-related deaths in the european union. we need to act decisively here too. we should increase the ambition of the european plan to fight cancer and prevent occupational diseases more effectively. we need a clear plan of action in this area. it is very important to establish and regularly update occupational exposure limit values for harmful substances. the harmful effects of asbestos are also to be considered. we have already worked in parliament on recommendations to the commission on this matter. first of all, a strategy for the registration, disposal and proper treatment and disposal of asbestos is needed. we need to mobilise funds for this at union and member state level. the safety of workers removing asbestos must also be taken into account. finally, when we talk about health and safety today, we cannot fail to mention the current trends and changes in the labour market. the pandemic has led many europeans to switch to remote working, which has many benefits but also serious challenges. the most important are long working hours, lack of work-life balance, lack of access to appropriate equipment or working environment conditions. as remote work becomes the new reality, many workers need to be sure that they will enjoy the same rights and standards as those in comparable positions in the workplace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world of work has already been transformed by the breakthrough of new technologies, including artificial intelligence, which are forcing us to urgently reprogram the social and employment policies of our countries. i want to talk about this because, as rapporteur for the regulation on artificial intelligence, i am working to shape a new european approach to artificial intelligence that puts the human being at the centre, balancing the need for a regulatory framework that encourages innovation, yes, but that at the same time protects fundamental rights, including the right to healthy, safe and dignified working conditions, which is the subject of this important work we are discussing today. more and more often, work is being monitored and coordinated by algorithms, by big data, that tracks workers' productivity, their position, their vital signs, their micro-facial expressions. we cannot allow the office and the factory to become orwellian scenarios. the psychophysical health of workers must not be jeopardized. we need new rules, because machines are supposed to be at the service of man and not the other way around.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take action in response to the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic. to ensure the highest level of protection for european workers, we need to ensure flexible european legislation on health and, of course, safety at work. these objectives also overlap with the european pillar of social rights and directly affect the lives of almost 170 million european workers and their families. the current pandemic is still forcing us to work from home, which is severely disrupting the boundaries between work and personal life. despite the many technological advances that make remote working easier, we are seeing an increase in mental health disorders, and the long-term consequences are still uncertain, but it is a challenge that we must take seriously. moreover, cancer remains the biggest problem, with more than 52 percent of the deaths attributable to the workplace. for this reason, i welcome the progress made by this strategic framework, but at the same time i call for greater adaptability to changes affecting the labour market. strengthening accident prevention in my country, croatia, we have great regulation, but there's always a leap forward in work-related illnesses, of course, as well as in being prepared for potential future health crises. by acting today, we all know it, and we create the conditions to fight the evil challenges of tomorrow. regardless of the job description, where one works, we must always have a clear thought, and that is that no one's health should be endangered just because they work.
mr. chairman, please! the pandemic has exposed the shortcomings of european health and safety regulations. we need to learn from this difficult situation and prepare for potential future health crises. special attention should be paid to the rules on first-line workers who are on the frontline of the pandemic. the possibility of working from home has increased the flexibility of the working day, but has also created new risks to workers' mental and physical health, such as long working hours, isolation and poor workplace equipment. the plight of women must also be considered. in the current situation, it is crucial to update the rules and develop strategies to allow for a faster response to subsequent changes. we should strive to ensure that all workers are guaranteed adequate working conditions, regardless of where and what they do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your words on this extremely interesting report. the subject of safety and health at work is certainly an important one which we should also be monitoring at european union level. but i think i'll have a slightly different opinion from the representatives of the left on what the european union should regulate in this area. i think we should regulate less and leave it to the individual member states, but there are certainly a number of areas where common regulation makes sense and can be more effective than individual member state regulation. and that is the case in the report i have read, the asbestos issue, where i think it is very commendable that there is an effort to act together against the consequences of asbestos in some of the buildings where the employees work. it is a shock to me that the information that has already been heard here today and that is contained in the report is that up to 88 000 people die every year as a result of exposure to asbestos, that is to say, as a result of exposure to asbestos in the workplace. so i would like to ask, commissioner, that this issue be seen and emphasised as being of particular importance, because although asbestos has been banned since 2005, the authors of this report expect that in the next two decades the number of people affected by this serious and unfortunately in many cases fatal disease, i.e. lung cancer, will increase as a result of exposure to this substance. i therefore believe that a joint action by the european union can save more lives and that we can therefore do more together than individual member states. and the interesting topic that was opened up here is, of course, the remote work that's also caused by covid-19, but that's probably a different conversation.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what conclusion can we draw from this very rich debate? it's very simple. there is a very broad consensus on the need to pursue all initiatives in the field of occupational health and safety. you know that social europe is built on the basis of rules on health and safety at work. from the very beginning, the ecsc was a very important part of the european construction. today, as has been said, there are many new problems in view of the change in the world of work. of course, we need rules. these rules must be applied, implemented, hence the importance of controls, which are the responsibility of the states, as i have already said. above all, we need a genuine safety and health culture at all levels. training is essential in this respect. training at company level, but perhaps also at school level: young people must be taught - and cases of young people who have recently lost their lives in one member state have been cited - to train young people, so that they become aware of the issues of health and safety at work. safety and health at work is not a cost in itself, because life and health protection are priceless; it is an investment. and i haven't seen any smart company that hasn't made that investment, that hasn't invested -- as i'm also doing -- in the health of what is, ultimately, their most valuable asset: the women and men who work in those companies. the commission has therefore launched a series of initiatives and proposals. we have talked a lot about some of the proposals, particularly as regards asbestos. we will continue and i am very glad that the european parliament is accompanying us on this path.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the president-in-office. thank you for your words, commissioner schmit! i am very glad that we have a common agenda here. because work in the eu must take place in a healthy and safe working environment. it is a terrible thing to think that as we speak in this chamber, people are being injured at work. we need to change that. i look forward to the summit. i am not the only one who has drawn up this report. thank you to all the shadows, to the employees of empl, to the secretariats and, most importantly, to team wind. you've made a tremendous effort. without the efforts of everyone, we would not have had algorithms, women in the workforce, covid, the right to be offline, asbestos, climate change, stress, etc. it really means a lot. it will be a comprehensive report which will make a great difference to the working environment of europe's workers. i'm glad to hear that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 march 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr ludĕk niedermayer, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the recommendations to the commission on fair and simple taxation in support of the reconstruction strategy (european parliament follow-up to the commission's action plan presented in july and to the 25 commission initiatives in the areas of vat, corporate taxation and individual taxation) (2020/2254 ((inl)) (a90024/2022). the debate will take place under the same changed conditions that you are already familiar with.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me start by saying that i have just come back from the meeting outside supporting ukraine, and i am sure that the minds of many of us are with the people suffering as a result of the attack of russia on ukrainian territory. but in spite of that, we have to work. by the vote in this plenary, we will conclude the work that has lasted for more than a year. with my colleagues, we had many expert meetings and we received a very good report from the european parliamentary research service (eprs). this was about how to formulate the recommendations, how to improve the eu dimension of tax policy, how to improve the collection of taxes due, to reduce the cost of compliance and also uncertainty for taxpayers, and to better use the technology of the 21st century. the result is the report with a recommendation to the commission on fair and simple taxation supporting the recovery. it refers to the commission action plan and the 25 initiatives in the area of vat, business and individual taxation. the report also contains a reflection of the commission’s work, including the more recent communication of business taxation and the work done by the oecd. the war in ukraine has, in my view, increased the urgency of this topic. there will be consequences of the war on the eu economy as well as on the global economy. surging energy prices are one of the most visible consequences. the growth of the eu economy will be negatively affected, and i believe that there will be a justified case for some well targeted and efficient fiscal interventions. both these facts – the slowing down of economic growth and fiscal intervention – will lead to a higher fiscal deficit. in combination with the impact of the covid crisis, countries will end up with higher debt, fiscal deficit and the urgent need to put their fiscal houses in order. usually, the measures should concern both sides of the budget, but instead of increasing taxes it would be much better to properly collect the taxes that are due. also, by reducing the cost of compliance, companies will be left with more money to invest, to grow and to promote economic growth. while tax policy is mostly in the hands of the member states, there is also a strong eu dimension. a significant part of tax fraud or tax evasion has a cross-border dimension, and the high cost of tax compliance is a reality, especially for smes doing business in the single market. i believe that the european parliament should play its part in pushing legislators to reduce the risks and cost to honest taxpayers as well, and fight to prevent tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax fraud. digitalisation can help greatly. during our work on the report it became clear that some member states are lagging behind. there is an increasing risk that the development of a digital system would not go hand in hand with the creation of standards simplifying tax compliance in the single market. this risk is rising. that is why we call for the creation of a single standard and development of a digital mechanism for tax compliance, doing so early enough before countries start to create their own, incompatible standards. i mentioned the smes that are the foundation of our economy. instead of talking about support, we should, among other things, focus on ensuring that they do not pay huge amounts of money just to ensure tax compliance when they operate in the single market. we also ask the commission to consider the introduction of a unique pan-european income tax regime for small enterprises and start—ups. we also want to address the issue concerning the uncertainty of tax residence. we know that the vat gap is large and, according to experts, it will become even higher after covid. we propose a number of ways to reduce this gap. it is also essential to simplify procedure. that’s why we recommend the commission moves forward the adoption of the single eu vat registration process and the single eu vat number by 2023, and to consider standards for an online reporting obligation, especially in cross-border trade. in the report, we also look at business taxation communication, and we very much welcome it. for example, we would like to support it through the introduction of a single and harmonised corporate income tax return form to support the befit framework. furthermore, we call for the debt-equity bias to be addressed. obviously, we support the oecd initiative too. we also echo the previous commission presentation statement concerning article 116 in order to promote the change needed. i believe that this is a good list of initiatives and i was delighted to see that, at the econ vote, there was very wide support. it was reached by very good, open—minded cooperation among all the rapporteurs, and i want to thank them for that. last but not least, the possibility to consult with the commission was of great help. let me also thank our support staff, our assistants and the group employees. let me conclude here and wish that the improvement of eu tax policy will play an important role in allowing fiscal policy to address unprecedented challenges in the consolidation phase later on, as well as in promoting the recovery that will hopefully come in the near future, not just here but also, i hope, in ukraine. finally, i would ask you to please support our report.
i now open the second round of voting for today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the vote will take place from 8 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in previous rounds will be used. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. the results will be announced tomorrow at 9:00.
we shall now continue our debate on the report by mr ludĕk niedermayer (a9-0024/2022).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, indeed, as mr niedermayer just said, our thoughts are in these days on what is happening in ukraine and especially now on the terrible video that we saw of the bombing of a maternity hospital. but as mr niedermayer said, we have to go on with our work. and so i would first like to thank for the extensive and very useful recommendations you are providing in this report and assure you that the commission entirely supports the objectives expressed in the report. a key priority for us is, of course, in the area of business taxation, the implementation of the two pillars of the oecd tax deal. but the oecd reform is only one piece of the puzzle and of the importance of taxation policy in this very moment when we need our economic strength and resources to respond to the crisis. as you rightly point out, there is much more that can be done to improve fairness and further simplify our tax system, in particular for smes. let me start with simplification. we want to simplify compliance and help in the fight against vat fraud. this is why the commission is preparing its vat in the digital age initiative for the second part of this year. this proposal will seek to modernise vat reporting requirements, including facilitating invoicing, it will improve and modernise the vat rules for platforms and will broaden the scope of the vat one—stop shop to include the remaining business—to—consumer transaction. hence we will limit the cases to the minimum when businesses would need multiple vat registration in different member states and it will allow a single vat registration number in the eu. at the same time, we need to ensure tax fairness where everyone has to pay their fair share, and this leads to the much—needed reduction of the tax gap and compliance costs and your requests for an enhanced euro-fisc 2.0. as you know, vat fraud continued to deprive member states from much—needed revenues. eu countries lost eur 134 billion in vat revenues in 2019. and we have to do everything we can to support member states. it’s their competence, of course, but we have to do everything we can to support them, including through electronic systems, to identify cross—border fraud and reduce the vat gap. and we will do this also in coordination with other initiatives of the commission, namely the one addressing the use of shell companies. also with respect to your suggested new coordinated european corporate income tax system, the commission confirms our intention to propose an initiative to address the debt—equity bias, debra. a robust anti—abuse framework will be part of this initiative to avoid aggressive tax planning possibilities. in what concerns the need for more certainty for taxpayers and/or member states’ tax administrations, the existing council directive on a tax dispute resolution mechanism provides for an effective framework. the review of the application of the provisions of this directive after a period of 5 years – so in 2024 – will be the occasion to identify remaining gaps in the directive as recommended in your report. the commission has been discussing also the extent of the issues relating to tax residency and is also working on the dac 8 initiative as an amendment to the directive on information exchange, also involving crypto-assets and e—money. so, much work is ongoing and i am pleased, honourable rapporteur, that the commission and the european parliament are supporting the same objective. together, we still have a long way to go and will have to cross new obstacles and challenges along the path, but we will support each other in this path.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is difficult to talk about taxation as if nothing was happening, when russian bombs are falling on hospitals. we are talking, however, about a recovery strategy. mostly the covid crisis, but also the consequences of the russian attack on ukraine, will cause economic turbulence for the eu. therefore, taxation policy will play a crucial role also in the aftermath of the current crisis so that our companies and citizens can feel safe, and for the eu priorities to be implemented. this report serves as a guide for the commission on what we, parliament, believe should be done on tax policy until the end of the current mandate. first, vat. tackling the vat gap and fraud should be an urgent priority, as the vat gap is estimated to have been around eur 140 billion in 2018, and it will rise due to the covid crisis, not to mention the further hit to the economy that the russian war in ukraine might trigger. nevertheless, for our smes to be able to tackle the crisis and thrive in these difficult times, we need a more understandable vat system that is not a burden for their cross-border operations. e-invoicing and the enhancement of the one-stop shop are the suggestions we make to help tackle this issue. second, we need to be sure that both pillars of the oecd agreement are accepted by the member states. there is no pick-and-choose on this topic. at the same time, we should be sure that our international partners walk the talk and fulfil their promises on the deal. moreover, taxes should be fair and transparent. going further, having befit to define a common tax base is a must. last but not least, we urge the commission to dare to use article 116 of the treaty, as tax policies in the union for too long have been hostage to the usual suspects. this document is not a text that can be ignored by the commission. we are acting under article 225 of the treaty and we want the commission to take steps. the times are changing, but our striving towards a recovery strategy that serves our people cannot stop, especially now. we are waiting for the proposals we listed in this text, commissioner.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the covid-19 crisis, which will have long-lasting effects, and the 14-day war in ukraine are all signs of very serious economic difficulties for europe. the imperfections of the current tax systems, the lack of solidarity between member states and the need for a new 'tax architecture' are the main challenges of the new reality that we must urgently address. my goal is to streamline and modify tax systems to make them fair, efficient and business-friendly. the priority is to restore fiscal balance and maintain the international competitiveness of the economy. the report makes proposals to improve the functioning of the european tax system by improving the flow of information or simplifying the taxpayer's service. fair tax dispute resolution, the expansion of automatic exchange of information or e-invoicing, the expansion of the vat one stop shop platform and the unification of cit returns will help both businesses and tax authorities. the key elements are: the close cooperation of member states' tax authorities and the avoidance of today's very harmful tax practices of applying vague criteria for rebates and exemptions to multinational corporations. in fact, it is the theft of one member state by another, which we can never agree to. i am a strong supporter of the sovereignty of the member states and i am opposed to any departure from the principle of unanimity in tax matters. i am here to promote cooperation and exchange of information, not top-down harmonization, the creation of new rules and the multiplication of regulations. any change to existing rules should be preceded by a careful analysis of the effects it will have. i think it is harmful and unnecessary to standardise the criteria for tax residency as an act of interference with the sovereignty of the member states and to put pressure on the council to return to projects that have not found support. i would therefore like to reiterate and reiterate that the european countries' voice should be the most important for the european parliament. we are not in a position to 'know better' how to make european citizens happy. let's remember that we're here to serve the people who elected us.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. i am glad that we have finally taken up the issue of withholding tax in the european parliament. i would remind you that the commission already proposed in 1989 the first proposals for regulations on the movement of capital between member states, the payment of dividends by public limited companies and the licensing of trademarks and copyrights. unfortunately, it was only the revelation of the huge cum-ex scandal that intensified our work, after 23 three years! the majority of member states have now signed an agreement to avoid double taxation. unfortunately, the rules on refunds and tax collection vary from one country to another, let alone from third countries, which has been exploited by criminal groups and dishonest financial institutions. it is estimated that the european union has lost some eur 140 billion in this way. as a co-rapporteur, i thank the rapporteur for the excellent substantive work, and all the co-rapporteurs for their cooperation and compromise, and for identifying the main problems. as a result of such in-depth analysis and the amount of work done in our report, we called on the commission to urgently harmonise the procedure for the refund of vat throughout the union, to help tax administrations with the flow of information. these solutions will bring up to €20 billion a year to member states' budgets, a significant amount in these times of crisis. of course, our work doesn't end with this document. we should immediately start harmonizing the definition of the real recipient, and we stress this very carefully. this issue has a significant impact on the collection of withholding tax and the application of preferential rates. now, each member state interprets this very differently, which makes it very difficult for capital to flow in the common market. the judgment of the court of justice of the european union did not resolve this problem. i hope we can move on this matter much more quickly.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! first of all, as co-rapporteur of the ppe, i would like to congratulate yanni toom on his comprehensive report and thank him for his good cooperation. for many citizens, especially young people born in the european union, the benefits of citizenship seem obvious. it is only now, as we stand in solidarity with our ukrainian friends, that we are looking for ways to improve their situation, for example by facilitating their mobility, ending roaming, helping them to access the labour market, allowing them to live and study in the european union. the privileges we enjoy as european citizens are visible and fully appreciated. the future of europe will be decided by young people. and it is these people who need to be reached with the message that they have rights, that they have a real impact on the direction in which the union will develop. however, it is worth recalling that citizens still face barriers to the exercise of their rights. for example, older people who often experience marginalization in the new digital reality. it's about the homeless who can't break the vicious cycle of exclusion and isolation. and finally, the disabled, who are continually faced with legal, organisational and physical obstacles to full participation in society. our ambition should be that every citizen can exercise his rights in the next european elections. we should ensure that every citizen has access to information, voting, debates, election programmes in a format accessible to them, and the right to vote and stand for election. these are the foundations of european democracy, which we are proud of and ready to defend.
madam president! both in the everyday and in the political perception of the azerbaijani-armenian conflict, this conflict is a territorial dispute and has a national character. however, as reported by the vatican, for example, since the ceasefire between the azeris and the armenians and the takeover of much of nagorno-karabakh by the azeris, there has been a brutal destruction of the armenian religious and cultural heritage in these lands. in the areas occupied by the azerbaijani army there are at least 1,456 monuments of armenian culture, religion and history. armenians around the world fear that these monuments may suffer the same fate as the churches and monuments in nakhichevan. according to official figures, 28,000 monuments have been demolished in the region so far, including 89 churches, 5,840 hand-carved stone crosses, known as chachkars, and 22,000 tombstones. the concept of genocide has entered international law through the study and research of the horrific massacre of the armenian population. the research was conducted by polish-jewish lawyer rafał lemkin. today the world must protest. today, the world must pay attention to another threat. this threat, this bestiality, is cultural genocide.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. as a human being, i can speak about the human dramas of those who live there and those who had to flee. as a historian, i can speak to the long and complicated history of this region. but first of all, as a politician who has been to this region more than 20 times, and so i know a little about it, i can tell you, looking you in the eye, that the one who is most happy about this conflict between armenia and azerbaijan today is the one who is waging war against ukraine - colonel president putin. he's the beneficiary of this conflict. we remember the meetings he held, for example in sochi, between the president of azerbaijan aliyev and the then president of armenia sargsyan. putin was the judge, the administrator, the one who made the decisions. remember, when asked "cui bono?" we answer russia and putin.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the european union has a very clear position regarding the key role of cultural heritage in promoting peace, democracy and sustainable development. it was only in june last year that the council approved conclusions welcoming the eu concept of cultural heritage in conflicts and crises, calling for the protection and safeguarding of cultural heritage during periods of conflict and crisis. this has also been the position of the european union with regard to all cultural and religious heritage in the territories affected by the conflict in and around nagorno-karabakh. as you know, the issue of cultural and religious heritage in the region has been contested and sensitive since at least the beginning of the nagorno-karabakh conflict. the war in 2020 has further aggravated this situation. through public statements and direct discussions with both sides, we have repeatedly called for the protection of all religious and cultural heritage in the region, particularly heritage sites affected by conflict, without any differentiation based on ethnic or religious grounds. any attempts to destroy or desecrate heritage sites before, during or after the hostilities or attempts to alter their identity will be met with strong condemnation from the european union. we have also been joined by the international community in these calls. it is important to have an objective and inclusive international assessment of all religious and cultural heritage affected, or potentially affected, by the conflict. for this reason, the eu supports the initiative of a unesco technical assessment mission to visit the area and has asked the sites to allow such a visit to take place and to fully cooperate with it. steps taken towards such a mission would also contribute to building confidence between the sides, something the eu has been working towards, particularly with the engagement of the president of the european council, charles michel, who visited both armenia and azerbaijan last year, held frequent phone calls with the leaders and brought them together for two trilateral meetings. we will continue to insist with both parties on the need to fully protect all religious and cultural heritage. key to this will be to allow an international assessment mission to take place, to continue engaging in concrete steps to overcome conflict, to cooperate on core issues and to build an atmosphere of trust.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
at its meeting of wednesday, 9 march 2022, the conference of presidents adopted a proposal for the calendar of part—sessions for the parliamentary year 2023. the dates are available on the plenary webpage. the deadline for tabling amendments is monday, 21 march at 12.00. the vote will take place on thursday, 24 march at 11.30.
i will now move to the results of the first voting session of today, 10 march 2022. (the president read out the results of the vote)*_______________* see minutes. (the sitting was suspended at 13.06)
the renew group has sent the president a resolution on the change of appointments to a committee. this decision shall be published in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its notification.
we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 1.45 p.m. to 3 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 4 p.m. the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules. (the sitting was suspended at 1.51 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on a systematic eu approach to chronic kidney disease (2022/2579 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there are no spontaneous speeches in any of the debates of this session and that no blue cards are accepted. as in the past, parliament's liaison offices in the member states will also be responsible for the transfers. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
member of the commission. – mr president, it’s estimated that chronic kidney disease affects about one in ten europeans and that alarmingly high number is expected to grow even further. as we all know, typical risk factors such as diabetes and hypertension are becoming more prevalent. if we add to that what we have learned, all of us, with the covid—19 pandemic, we have seen that all patients with chronic diseases are at a higher risk to suffer a serious course of the infection. that’s why i’m really very happy that you have added this point on your agenda today, but also because i’ve had the opportunity in the last few months to have meetings with associations of patients with chronic disease so i have heard very closely and at first hand the many challenges they are facing. as a commission, we have not taken our eye off non-communicable diseases, while, of course, we have been fighting the pandemic together. on the contrary, i would say our efforts have been to help member states deal with non-communicable diseases even more effectively. we provide support to member states in their work to meet the united nations sustainable development goals and world health organization targets. this goes specifically for sdg target 3.4, where the international community has subscribed to the goal to reduce premature mortality from non—communicable diseases by one third by 2030. we all know that this can only be done through prevention and treatment and by identifying and sharing best practices at both national and eu level. to achieve this, we have a number of tools at our disposal. we recently launched a new eu initiative on non-communicable diseases called healthier together to address the leading causes of avoidable premature death. healthier together focuses on health promotion and prevention. at the same time, it supports improvements in every stage of a patient’s life, from screening and early diagnosis to early detection, treatment management and, of course, all important quality of life, along with improving knowledge and data availability. the priority strands of the initiative include cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, chronic respiratory diseases, mental health and neurological disorders. these are the leading causes of avoidable premature death, not including cancer. as you know, diabetes and high blood pressure are among the main risk factors for chronic kidney disease. by working on these strands, we will also have a positive impact on kidney disease. the priorities and actions of this initiative will continuously be discussed with member states and with stakeholders via the eu health policy platform, and i will be very happy to be able to share with the european parliament all progress made on these efforts. we are all aware that this house has also made a priority europe’s beating cancer plan. this is a comprehensive plan, it is an ambitious plan and it foresees that we tackle health determinants such as tobacco use, nutrition, physical activity and alcohol. this will also help other non—communicable diseases like chronic kidney disease by addressing common risk factors. last but not least, we have our new eu4health programme. i will never stop thanking all the members of this parliament for their vocal support for that programme, which has given the eu4health the resources to make it a real game-changer and bring about what i would say is a paradigm shift towards the stronger european health union that we’re all working together to build. this means we can support networks for knowledge-sharing and mutual learning, we can support capacity-building actions and strengthen strategic planning, and member states will have more opportunities to exchange best practices. indeed, a call under the 2022 eu4health programme for collecting and implementing evidence—based practices for non-communicable diseases specifically refers to chronic kidney disease. the eu has funded many research actions under the horizon 2020 programme. we have 40 projects directly addressing chronic kidney disease worth eur 64 million and 24 projects related to kidney transplantation amounting to eur 47 million. in the horizon 2021 work programme our new flagship, the european innovation council, includes a call for medical technology and devices that includes portable dialysis. so we are working strongly. we are working and supporting member states in sharing best practices for organ donation and transplantation, where we all know that there are many challenges faced. we are working on digital transplant registries for the kidney transplant recipients and living kidney donors to be able to bring all the data together at eu level and to improve transplantation outcomes. in ending, honourable members, we fully appreciate the importance of research and of pooling knowledge, but more than that, we need to bring all this together to increase the quality of life and to increase the life expectancy of those living with chronic kidney disease. that’s why our support in this crucial area will not only continue, but i have personally committed to this to the patient organisations themselves. i look forward now to hearing your views on this very important matter.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i’m very happy that we are having this very frank and good exchange of opinions here in parliament on kidney disease, like we have had on other diseases, where you have taken very prompt action. we know that chronic kidney disease (ckd) is a significant burden for our healthcare system. one hundred million europeans suffer from it, and predictions are that it is in sharp extension and increase. of course, this is easy to understand. we live longer. we eat more medicine. there are the other big non-communicable diseases (ncds) – we heard about diabetes and blood pressure. then there’s our livelihoods and what we eat and what chemicals we put in ourselves – and that all gets into our kidneys. but the difference with some other diseases, like the big ones like diabetes where we have the european programme, like heart and cardiovascular diseases, is that kidney disease is a silent killer. we do not raise it as a big issue at member state level. more often than not, patients are not aware of the situation until it is already a severe condition. even though, in some cases, it would be preventable with different choices of medication, for example, if there’s a lack of understanding, prevention is undone. and then, if doctors often do not take it as a priority, the patients do not know, and the healthcare system doesn’t prioritise and understand it, and there you have it. it keeps on growing and spreading silently in our societies. that’s why i think, and we co-signatories of this initiative think, that this would be a very good and proper time for the commission to start thinking about having a separate kidney disease (ckd) programme that has the normal elements we always see in health programmes: how to prevent, how to diagnose early, how to screen, how to start the best treatments, how to develop better and more cost-effective treatments, as we know that this is one of the most expensive therapies we have in our healthcare system. and with this, we can tackle this challenge. but i’m only afraid that if this is only one part of the ncd programme, and not even listed as one of the highest, we might not be able to tackle the challenge. so this is the plea from us to the commission: please consider having a separate programme about it and action in the future.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, in recent years there has been an increase in the number of patients with chronic kidney disease worldwide. the response to this disease requires the strengthening of the public service and its response in the prevention, control and treatment of the disease along with specific patient support. a disease with a number of associated risk factors, including diabetes, hypertension, obesity, smoking, lung diseases, among others, which must be addressed with a view to introducing not only preventive measures but also measures for the early detection of the disease. in europe, an estimated 75 million people are affected by some stage of the disease. in portugal, it is estimated that one in ten people have some stage of the disease, one of the highest incidences in europe, with figures ranging from 218 to 235 patients per million inhabitants. it is estimated that there are about 20,000 chronic kidney patients in stage five on renal replacement therapy, about 60% on haemodialysis, 37% on renal transplantation and less than 4% on peritoneal dialysis. each year, more than 2,000 chronic kidney patients are initiated into hemodialysis, and the absence of nearby services for many of the patients, forcing them to travel tens of kilometers for treatment. almost 50% of patients have other conditions as the cause, namely diabetes (about 30%) and hypertension (about 15%) which should be considered in order to adopt primary preventive and disease control measures that impact the development and progression of chronic kidney disease. it is estimated that approximately 25% of patients had no follow-up in nephrology prior to initiation of haemodialysis. secondary prevention should also be strengthened with a view to early identification of chronic kidney disease, which can lead to slowing its progression, as well as to better preparing the patient and his or her family for treatment and the options available. moreover, more than 90% of haemodialysis patients are treated in private haemodialysis units with a state agreement, mainly owned by two large private groups. during the pandemic, there were moves to reduce sessions to three hours instead of four, in defiance of periods set by health authorities. it turns out that many of the health workers in these units are not permanently employed but are contracted. it is clear that the concern is not the welfare of the patients but the making of a profit. for all of this, it is critical to broaden the public response in the national health service. the disease response and dialysis treatments should be incorporated into the public health service, including proximity responses alongside health worker empowerment and enhancement. the human dimension and the added difficulties that chronic illness brings to the lives of patients, with impacts that translate into personal, family and work life, should also be mentioned. measures are therefore needed to ensure that these patients are protected at work and that their workplace, working hours and duties are adapted to the limitations of their illness, along with other measures such as exemption from healthcare costs, free access to medication and treatment of their illness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the death rate from kidney disease continues to rise every year. it's projected to be the fifth leading cause of death by 2040. in addition, the data speak of about 850 million people worldwide suffering from kidney disease, of which about 13 million have acute life-threatening kidney disease and 2.6 million have had a transplant or are on dialysis. information, prevention, early diagnosis can make all the difference for an optimal treatment path and a better quality of life. inequalities and injustices in access to treatment for these diseases are still present today. the reason chronic illness is underestimated is that it progresses asymptomatically for years. on the occasion of world kidney day today, 10 march 2022, my thoughts are with the patients with kidney disease in ukraine; continuity of care for dialysis, transplants and health care must be absolutely guaranteed. poland, romania, slovakia and moldova are currently providing essential care to refugees dialysis and transplanted from ukraine, but there are fears that their local health infrastructure will soon be overwhelmed; we must help, we must help the countries on the front line. finally, i would like to express my full solidarity and closeness to the doctors, nurses and all the medical staff in ukraine who are working hard at this hour to provide care for their countrymen.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i’ll start with the last comment i heard from mr benifei. you’re absolutely right that we need to support those frontline member states who are receiving, on a daily basis, thousands and thousands of refugees because of the war in ukraine. what i can assure you is that i am working, almost on a daily basis, with all those health ministers, and other health ministers, and we have now secured an initial first 10 000 beds in order to be able to transfer patients from those frontline member states whose health systems are being severely pressed to other member states who have come forward. these beds include general ward beds, oncology beds, burns units, neonatal beds with their mothers, paediatric beds, icu and, of course, other diseases. so this is not coming, it is a priority and we are all working on it on a daily basis because we are facing a really tragic situation. in a war, it is the most vulnerable that are, of course, most affected, as all others. ms pietikäinen, you are right that it’s almost a silent killer. personally, i might not have been aware of this if i had not had three close friends in the last two years who needed dialysis, two of whom have had transplants. reducing the burden of chronic kidney disease has become very evident. we are working on it, and i just want to tell you that there is a separate call for projects, which is open under the 2022 eu4health work programme on non—communicable diseases, and this includes this. mr gonzález casares, we need to prioritise prevention. i totally agree and yes, as you mentioned, spain has set an example for the work that you do with transplant and increasing donors. good practices need to be exchanged between member states. ms paulus spoke of innovation, and i just want to say that, in our european innovation council, we included a call for medical technologies and devices that include portable dialysis. this is in part also to make the dialysis greener, in line with the latest science and technology, which is something that you mentioned. and we do need to do a great deal more on organ donation awareness. mr pimenta lopes, we need to do much more to raise awareness on organ donation and on how we can save lives. there are disparities between member states on donation and transplantation and, following the eu action plan on organs, we saw the need to focus on the implementation of the developed knowledge in member states. we need of course to bring in national authorities and professionals to take the lead on this in the different member states by exchanging good practice. ms olekas, on health there has been a paradigm shift. we can all see that. early diagnosis is key, but prevention is really crucial. i want to say here because we are speaking of europe’s beating cancer plan, that the prevention pillar of europe’s beating cancer plan is so significant that it will impact on the prevention of other non-communicable diseases, and we are going to deliver on this plan. on innovative methods of treatment, we are coming forward with a new legislative proposal for the pharmaceutical legislation at the end of this year, which i will very much look forward to presenting to you. thank you for this very important exchange on the issues around chronic kidney disease. it’s essential that we address these challenges, that we work together among the member states, that we never forget that those who have been hardest hit by covid-19 are those with chronic illnesses, and that our healthier together programme will be able to bolster member states’ actions on non-communicable diseases and risk factors which are common to many diseases, including chronic kidney disease. let me repeat to you that we will be working on it continuously and with the member states to share good practices, and we will make best use of the call under eu4health. once again, thank you for putting it on the agenda today because, by using your voices, you also in a sense support the work that the commission is doing and the commitment we have to change the world around non-communicable diseases.
the debate is closed. we have had this serious subject recently. we're wrapping up a difficult week. we've had two years and one month of a pandemic. two years and a month ago, we were here for the last time. now we're back here. next week we will be able to welcome visitors for the first time. and now, two years and one month after the pandemic, we have this terrible news that affects and depresses us all. after brexit, after the pandemic, after this attack on an independent country on our continent, we are reminded for the third time in a short period of time that we can achieve much faster and better on this continent together. let's stick together, let's stick together, let's become more aware, develop awareness of what we have. it's more precious, it's more fragile, it's more fleeting than we sometimes think. it is less obvious than some people think. let us think of those who are fighting for freedom, peace and democracy these days and who are learning that all this is not just taken for granted. the sitting will resume at 4 p.m. with the announcement of the results of the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 3.38 p.m.)
we now come to the results of the second round of voting today. (the president declared the results of the second round of voting to be adopted) the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter.
the minutes of the meetings of 7 and 10 march will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next part-session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at these meetings to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 10 march 2022.
it’s nice to see everyone back in the room. dear colleagues, i am pleased to see you all back in this chamber after almost two years of hybrid sessions. can i ask you to take your seats? we have a very heavy agenda ahead of us. so as you know, dear colleagues, at the peak of the pandemic, this house continued with its work in a new setting under modified rules. to date, we have successfully concluded over 180 legislative files. we have lived up to the expectations and served our citizens. now, as the overall health situation is improving, we are gradually lifting our special arrangements, reopening this parliament, as we have seen this week with so much activity to our citizens. of course, lessons from the pandemic will be drawn. and in the three upcoming part—sessions, we will be testing some recommendations of the focus groups that were tasked by our late president sassoli to rethink parliamentary democracy, and our reforms will not stop there. this parliament is constantly evolving, just as the world around us is, and it is timely that during this session, in full presence, we will vote on the cohesion action for refugees in europe to assist those persons, humans, individual citizens fleeing ukraine. later today at 17.30 we will have the prime minister of canada, justin trudeau, addressing the house. i encourage you all to be here for the debates. our teams are currently negotiating more than 40 legislative files with the commission and the council, and i welcome the president of the commission and the president of the european council here. but this is just the beginning. over the coming weeks and months, our legislative activities will further intensify, and i know i can count on your dedication to get our work done. i also want to welcome our former president, mr pat cox, who is with us in the gallery today. (applause)he will be participating in the solidarity days with ukraine, and i would like to thank you for joining our efforts to stop russia’s brutal invasion.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sittings of 7, 8, 9 and 10 march are available. can i ask colleagues whether there are any comments? no, that does not seem to be the case. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
in accordance with article 7 of the code of conduct for members of the european parliament with respect to financial interests and conflicts of interest, on 16 march 2022, the following members were nominated as members of the advisory committee on the conduct of members, and these are danuta maria hübner, giuliano pisapia, pascal durand, heidi hautala and geert bourgeois, while gerolf annemans and helmut scholz will be the reserve members of this committee.
the renew europe, verts/ale, id and ecr groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and they shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the juri, empl/femm and econ committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports, which constitute the mandates for the negotiations, are available on the plenary webpage, and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, thursday, 24 march at midnight, that the decisions to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament on the decisions to enter into negotiations is made within the aforementioned deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
the juri and femm committees, in joint meeting, have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations ahead of the council’s first reading, pursuant to rule 72 of the rules of procedure. the position adopted by parliament at first reading which constitutes the mandate for those negotiations is available on the plenary webpage and its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 9 march pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. i would like to remind you that i informed all colleagues by email about the receipt of three requests for urgent procedure from the commission, regi and libe committees, pursuant to rule 163, on the following legislative files: refugees in europe (care); more flexible funds and use of funds under the amif regulations in light of the war in ukraine; and the status agreement between the eu and moldova on frontex operational activities. the vote on these three requests will be taken today once the order of business has been established. next, with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposal for changes to the final draft agenda. today, an address by justin trudeau, the prime minister of canada, is added at 17.30 after the joint debate on the european council meetings. the address will be followed by one round of political group speakers. the remaining debates already scheduled for this afternoon will start at 18.30 or after the end of the address by the prime minister of canada. as a consequence, the sitting is extended until midnight. on thursday, if the vote on urgent procedure regarding care is carried, then a debate will be added at 11.00. the objection pursuant to rule 112(2) on maximum residue levels for flutianil and the reports by mr lebreton and mr dzhambazki on the request for the waiver of the immunity of members are added directly to the votes. finally, the vote on the motions for resolutions on the implementation of the 2021—2027 cohesion policy is postponed to the next part-session. if there are no objections, these changes would be deemed to be approved. good, i take it there are no objections. the agenda is adopted and the order of business is thus established. i would also like to inform the house that i have received three requests for points of order. i will give the floor first to manfred weber to raise his point.
i have to say, madam president, it is great to see a full house, if i may say so. to be back in business today is a great, beautiful experience. this house, madam president, has been united in the fight for the rule of law in the european union over the last few years. this is something that is important to us, that unites us all in this house, across party lines. last week, in one european union member state, the opposition leader was jailed for 24 hours without being formally charged. there was no court order either. no judge was involved. it was just an order from the home secretary, a politician who put the opposition leader in jail. today a court in sofia ruled that the action of the minister of the interior was not in accordance with the law, not to be reconciled with the legal situation in sofia, bulgaria. we are dealing with a breakdown of the rule of law. i would like to speak to this, and i would ask the commission and our internal services to look into this. we want to fight corruption - we all support this - but this fight against corruption must be based on the rule of law, and that has been broken in bulgaria. this needs to be cleared up.
thank you, mr weber. i will now give the floor to christine anderson for her point.
i assure you, ms anderson, that prime minister trudeau will address this house and exchange with us on the most important topics that we are facing today. (loud applause)
thank you, i think you can wrap up now.
madam president, as we are entering a new phase of normalising parliamentary activity, i would ask the presidency to stick to our usual procedures. to raise a question of compliance with the rules of procedure, you must first indicate the article to which it refers, to see if we have not complied with any article. the question of compliance with the rules is not that everyone here can pick up the microphone and say the first thing that comes to mind. so if there is a question of compliance with the rules, please state which rule is being referred to and where the rules of the house are being breached.
let’s now come to the votes on the requests for urgent procedure.
we will vote on three requests. first of all, on refugees in europe (care). before the vote, only the mover and one speaker against may be heard, along with the chair or rapporteur of the committee responsible. so i’ll give the floor now to mr omarjee, chair of the regi committee, who asked to move the request. i give you the floor for 3 minutes.
president of the regi committee. madam president, on behalf of our regi committee, i would like to express my support for this emergency vote, which, you will agree, is not about a small matter, but about what is most horrible, most terrible, most tragic: war, which is now a guest in our work. we all sense that this war in ukraine will have staggering consequences for the whole of europe. we are already witnessing one of the largest movements of population in recent european history. millions of ukrainians, trapped by russian military bombardment and what can only be called vladimir putin's war crimes, have taken the path of exodus. in less than three weeks, more than 4 million people have already fled the bombs to find refuge in the european union. at present, poland is hosting 2 200 000 refugees, romania 500 000, hungary 300 000, slovakia 300 000 and the czech republic 300 000. and we all know that as long as the war continues, the pressure will increase. everywhere, humanitarian needs are growing exponentially, mostly for women and children. these are basic needs - food, health, education and housing - that we must urgently address. for these countries, for the ukrainian refugees, for these european citizens who are fulfilling their duty of welcome, in conditions sometimes unimaginable here in brussels, we must say through this debate that there is cohesion, that we are doing everything and will do everything possible to provide concrete support to the states, regions and cities that are at the forefront. this is the aim of the care regulation proposed by the european commission, which our regi committee supports. it is our duty and our honour to facilitate this through cohesion policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, i am sure that this debate will also be one of reaffirming the unity of our parliament in saying that we are not abandoning the ukrainian refugees or the citizens of europe, who, faithful to the values of history, are today rising to the level of the historic duty of fraternity, solidarity and humanity that is ours.
is there anyone in this chamber who wishes to speak against this request? (parliament agreed to the request for urgent procedure) nice to see that. so the request is adopted and a debate on this file will be held tomorrow, thursday, 24 march at 11.00, with one round of political group speakers. as a consequence, our sitting will start at 8.30 in the morning. the vote will then be held also tomorrow at 11.30. the deadline for tabling amendments is today, wednesday, 23 march at 17.00, and the deadline for tabling split and separate votes is later tonight at 20.00. the second request is on a more flexible use of funds under the aimf regulations in light of the war in ukraine. again, before the vote, i will give the floor to the mover and any speaker who would like to speak against, along with the chair or rapporteur of the committee responsible. i give the floor for 3 minutes to mr lópez aguilar, chair of the libe committee, who asked to speak in favour of this request.
chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i hereby confirm the urgency and priority of this procedure that has been activated by the commission proposing a regulation to the parliament and the council amending a previous regulation laying down general provisions on the asylum, migration and integration fund, the so-called amif, and the regulation, the same year – 2014, related to home affairs funds. the objective of this proposal is addressing the harsh consequences of the unjustified and brutal war launched by putin against ukraine by facilitating all resources for the period 2014-2020 of the asylum, migration and integration fund, as well as to allow more flexible access to the internal security fund, to secure external borders and visas, and to prevent and combat terrorism and radicalisation. greater flexibility, allowing to extend the scope and the period of eligibility and unblocking access to unspent resources. in addition, this greater flexibility for the management of the funds will enhance the adoption of the measures set out in the council directive of 2001 on minimum standards for granting temporary protection, that we all know has been activated for the first time ever. in addition, member states will be able to allocate contributions for the period 2021— 2027 under the heading of external assigned revenue. we’re all aware of the situation – dramatic – caused by putin’s war and the particular situation at the border. very delicate. from the european parliament and from the committee that i have the honour to chair, we have been working to reaffirm our commitment to continue providing political, financial, material and humanitarian support in a coordinated manner, as well as supporting the reconstruction of a democratic and pluralistic ukraine. the proposal allows urgently to utilise remaining funds amounting to eur 420 million, to help to address the increased number of persons on borders and migration management systems arising from the invasion. it is undisputable that this european parliament should give its support, in our view, to respond to the current challenge and help people fleeing war zones. let me point out finally that a united approach is more necessary than ever before, at european level, to manage this situation. it must be based on mutual trust, solidarity, shared responsibility between member states and institutions alike, all to ensure sustainable and responsible migration policy, security, border management, increasing the confidence of our citizens in the ability to join forces at eu level. but i will also stress the importance of the complementarity of this proposal with the other that has been discussed in this session of the european parliament – cohesion action for refugees in europe (care). to conclude, let me highlight that we call on the russian president to fully comply with his obligations under international humanitarian law, ensure humanitarian access to victims internally displaced in ukraine and allow safe passage for civilians compelled to leave their beloved country.
thank you, mr lopez aguilar. is there anyone in this chamber wishing to speak against this request ? i don’t see anybody so i put the request to the vote. (parliament approved the request for urgent procedure)the request is adopted and the vote will be held tomorrow at 11.30. the deadline also for tabling amendments is today at 17.00 and then for tabling split and separate votes at 20.00. and finally, the third request is on the status agreement between the eu and moldova on frontex operational activities. i will give the floor once again to mr lopez aguilar for 3 minutes.
chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, i have also been requested to request this urgent procedure for the handling of the council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and moldova on operational activities carried out by frontex, the so-called status agreement. the state with refugees at ukrainian borders, as i said, is dramatic, following putin’s invasion against ukraine. the situation is extremely difficult for many bordering countries, which show determination to support them, including this one, which does not happen to be a member of the european union, but it is under the impact of nothing less than half a million persons entering the republic of moldova from ukraine following the invasion. in view of that, we should support moldovan authorities to be able to respond to the current challenges, help people fleeing as the situation continues. but this overall objective of the status agreement is also to ensure that the eu’s largest agency, which is frontex, will be able to provide operational support for the moldavian authorities on the ground. officers from frontex will be able to support document checks, registration processes, assist vulnerable people. but we also insist on the importance of protecting fundamental rights. urgent need to support a neighbouring third country – sure – but it goes without saying that we must also make sure that the same level of protection and safeguards against fundamental rights violations will comply in moldova, as in the eu. so we expect the commission and the agency providing the parliament with information on the implementation of the status agreement regularly. we call on the frontex executive director to terminate or suspend any operational activities if violation of fundamental rights or international protection obligations occur.
is there anybody wishing to speak against? (parliament approved the request for urgent procedure) the vote will be held tomorrow at 11.30.
the next item is the joint debate on: – european council and commission statements on the debriefing on the european council meeting in paris of 10 march 2022 (2022/2570(rsp));– council and commission statements on preparation of the european council meeting of 24-25 march 2022 (2022/2532(rsp)). let me also inform you that you will be able to request catch-the-eye and blue-card interventions via your voting machine, after you have inserted your voting card. so i would therefore invite you always to bring your voting card to the hemicycle. instructions in fact have been made available to you. should you wish to register for catch-the-eye you should start doing so now. i also want to remind you that interventions in this chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum, except for the catch-the-eye, blue cards and points of order, so i kindly invite you to keep an eye on the speakers’ list and to approach the rostrum when your speaking time is imminent.
president of the european council. – madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the commission, dear members of the european parliament, one month of war, one month of death, destruction and suffering. one month of russian terror against the people of ukraine. one month of the democratic world rising up with full force to condemn russia and to stand against this barbaric and immoral war. mariupol, like other cities, will forever be engraved in the history of martyred towns: a theatre bombed and an art school bombed, where so many people took refuge; 90% of the city damaged or destroyed; residents held hostage by russian troops; no food, no water, no electricity, no heating. mariupol, one month ago, was a vibrant city and today is in ruins. russia is responsible for this war. russia alone. targeting women, children, civilians – these are crimes and those responsible will face international justice. no impunity. we are not alone in condemning this brutal war. far from it. the eu, along with our partners and allies, is rock solid in our solidarity for ukraine. for one month, an international coalition has risen up to denounce this war: nations, businesses, citizens, the united nations. together, we have one common goal: to defeat vladimir putin. putin thought he would conquer ukraine in a few days, and he was wrong. he thought he would divide the eu and our allies, and he was wrong. because the people of ukraine are fighting bravely, defending their homes and the future of their children, defending their democracy and defending our european common values. the european union, with our allies, we stand as one and we are taking action against the kremlin. with our international partners, we have imposed the heaviest sanctions we have ever adopted, hitting the financial system, crippling key economic sectors and cracking down on supporters of the regime, freezing russia’s foreign reserves and banning banks from swift. the rouble has plummeted, multinationals are fleeing, and there are sanctions on russian companies and on decision—makers – propagandists, oligarchs – freezing their eu assets, banning their travel in the eu, targeting their yachts, their villas, their private jets. we are implementing these sanctions and working to close the loopholes that provide an escape for russia. and we are prepared to do more to starve putin’s war machine. as we speak, the ukrainian people are battling for their freedom and we will not abandon them, because this is our political and moral duty. they are fighting not only for themselves, but they are fighting for our common values and principles in this side. in versailles two weeks ago, we decided to increase our humanitarian, political, financial and material support to ukraine. over three million people have fled to the eu, mostly women and children, and we are welcoming them with dignity and will continue to offer them any assistance they need and show solidarity with the countries on the front line. we will also continue to provide military equipment to ukraine, with eur 1 billion already mobilised through the european peace facility. we also have a very powerful tool in our association agreement with ukraine and we must make the most of it. just last week we continued our support in the energy sector by connecting ukraine and moldova to our european electricity grid. we have also worked intensely on the diplomatic front to try to end this war. president macron and chancellor scholz have also played an important role in our diplomatic efforts. i speak to president zelenskyy nearly every day and have spoken with president putin multiple times and the goal is clear: this war must end. our ukrainian friends are also asking for another kind of help. that is political help. ukraine is part of our european family and we agreed to support the european choice of ukraine and its right to choose its own destiny. we have decided to immediately strengthen our bonds and deepen our partnership and to support ukraine in pursuing its european path. we have proposed to launch the ukraine solidarity trust fund and an international donors conference to provide support to ukraine for its immediate needs and to help rebuild a free and democratic ukraine. mesdames et messieurs, nous aurons l’occasion d’aborder ces thèmes demain, lors de la réunion du g7 et du conseil européen. enfin, je veux présenter quelques éléments concernant ce «programme de versailles», qui, je crois, représente un élan vers une ambition de souveraineté européenne. nous savons tous ici que la promesse qui fonde le projet européen est celle de la paix et de la prospérité. nous savons tous ici que, ces dernières années, dans cette assemblée, on a travaillé de concert avec le conseil pour engager la transformation du projet européen en matière de prospérité prenant en compte les ambitions climatiques et numériques. nous savons combien la covid-19 a fait pression sur nous, a révélé nos forces, a montré nos faiblesses et nous a engagés à montrer encore plus de solidarité et d’ambition pour ces ambitions européennes. à versailles, nous avons recensé nos points de force et de faiblesse, et défini le programme et la méthode de travail qui nous permettront de progresser, nous le souhaitons, au sein du conseil en étroite collaboration avec la commission et le parlement. il y a trois points que je souhaite particulièrement mettre en évidence. le premier point, nous le voyons brutalement, mais nous ne le découvrons pas avec cette guerre: nous avons une faiblesse sur le plan énergétique. cela montre la justesse de ce choix lié au pacte vert pour l’europe et à notre ambition d’être davantage indépendants sur ce sujet à l’avenir. or, sans attendre cette neutralité climat, il nous appartient de prendre immédiatement les mesures pour renforcer notre résilience et notre indépendance dans ce domaine, de sortir progressivement de notre dépendance, en particulier vis-à-vis du gaz russe. ce sujet sera bien sûr au cœur de nos débats dès demain et après-demain au conseil européen. le deuxième sujet, nous le voyons bien, c’est la question de la sécurité et de la paix liée à elle, et donc la question de l’europe de la défense. nous savons que, depuis de nombreuses années, des voix se sont élevées avec plus ou moins de force pour plaider ce rapprochement entre pays européens, pour développer davantage de capacités européennes en matière de défense et de sécurité. de premiers instruments ont été institués et mis en place. nous le voyons bien, il faut maintenant changer de régime et de vitesse. je suis totalement convaincu que cette décision qui a été prise avec courage par les vingt-sept dirigeants européens, à savoir la mise en place, par l’intermédiaire de la facilité pour la paix, d’une capacité de livraison de matériel militaire, est un pas en avant substantiel qui montre que l’europe peut disposer, si nous le souhaitons, d’une réelle capacité d’influence et de puissance au service de la paix et de nos valeurs. enfin, mesdames et messieurs, le troisième élément touche à la robustesse de notre base économique. si nous sommes en mesure de prendre des mesures qui atteignent le régime à moscou, c’est parce que nous représentons une force économique: 450 millions de consommateurs et un marché intérieur puissant, avec des points de force et des atouts qui sont indiscutables, mais aussi – c’est vrai, soyons lucides – avec quelques points de faiblesse et de fragilité qu’il faut rapidement corriger. c’est le sens du travail qui est mené étroitement avec la commission, avec le conseil et, je l’espère, avec vous aussi au sein du parlement européen. sur les microprocesseurs, nous devons être engagés pour développer les technologies qui, demain, vont fonder la différence, et garder cette capacité d’innovation. quant au secteur de la santé – on a vu à quel point la santé touche directement notre capacité de bien-être collectif, mais aussi la capacité de soutenir notre base économique –, sur tous ces sujets et sur quelques autres, nous allons aussi continuer à progresser. madame la présidente, mesdames et messieurs les parlementaires, il est certain que les quelques dernières années n’ont pas été de tout repos pour le monde et pour l’europe: la conscience d’une transformation climatique et numérique; une crise mondiale, la covid-19, une pandémie qui nous a ébranlés et à laquelle nous avons résisté et à partir de laquelle nous avons tenté de tirer un certain nombre d’enseignements, y compris pour la relance économique et la volonté de travailler davantage ensemble; enfin, nous nous sommes réveillés, toutes et tous, il y a un mois avec une europe différente, avec un monde différent, parce qu’à nouveau la guerre se déploie sur le sol européen. nous sommes conscients que notre responsabilité est d’être à la hauteur de ce moment, parce nous sommes conscients que les décisions que nous prenons aujourd’hui doivent être intelligentes et stratégiques pour faire en sorte que nous soyons à la hauteur de cette promesse de l’union européenne: la paix et la prospérité.
president of the commission. – madam president, mr president, honourable members, every day we watch in horror the images coming from besieged ukrainian cities – the devastation of mariupol, kharkiv and the outskirts of kyiv. but let me take you for a moment beyond the front line, into occupied ukraine. after the siege and the shelling, the reality of occupation is just as terrifying. fresh food has become a luxury. hospitals and pharmacies are running out of medicines. hundreds of people have been detained by russian occupation forces. and yet, every day, thousands of ukrainians keep taking to the streets to protest against the invasion. in kherson, in berdyansk, in melitopol they are waving their blue and yellow flags in the faces of the occupying soldiers. and they haven’t stopped, even after russian soldiers have beaten them and shot some of them down. honourable members, if freedom has a name, its name is ukraine. and the ukrainian flag is the flag of freedom today. all our efforts are aimed at making this war a strategic failure for putin. and this is why member states agreed to assign eur 1 billion for security assistance to the brave ukrainian fighters. but supporting ukraine also means draining the resources that putin is using to finance his atrocious war. last week, we decided on a fourth package of unprecedented sanctions. we are denying russia the status of most favoured nation and severely restricting its access to our markets, because russia should not benefit from the very same rules-based order that it is so grossly violating. we are stopping new european investment across russia’s energy sector because we should not be reinforcing the energy dependency that we want to put behind us. we continue to pressure russian elites close to putin by hunting down their yachts, prestigious villas and expensive cars. because those who sustain putin’s war should not be able to enjoy their lavish lifestyles while bombs are falling on ukraine. these measures come on top of three other packages of sanctions. they are already biting hard into the russian economy. the rouble plummeted to an all-time low earlier this month. interest rates are above 20%. rating agencies have downgraded russian bonds to junk status. hundreds of global companies are leaving russia because they don’t want to feed putin’s war of choice. this, honourable members, is the legacy that putin will leave behind in russia. he has become the worst enemy of the russian people too. but first and foremost, he is responsible for the human tragedy in ukraine. until now, more than three million people have left ukraine, half of them children. every second, a child from ukraine arrives in our union – every second. so while i’m speaking to you here in the heart of european democracy, 800 children are leaving ukraine – courageous, traumatised and in need of help. they leave behind their brothers and fathers not knowing whether they will see them again. it is heartening to see the pan-european wave of solidarity for our ukrainian friends. i applaud the enormous generosity of all europeans, all member states and moldova. at the european level, we will mobilise massive resources to support member states hosting people fleeing the war. we’ve made sure that the regional development and cohesion funds and react—eu can be used with the greatest flexibility so that cities and regions can invest in schools, housing and health care. and many, many thanks for your support. i just saw this is up to eur 17 billion that we are moving now. many thanks to you. but i think this is not enough. we now propose to accelerate eur 3.4 billion to frontload liquidity to our member states that are showing such exceptional solidarity. so i count on you, honourable members, to green—light this money quickly. this will send a strong message of our common commitment to supporting the ukrainian people. we should be clear-eyed about what lies ahead of us. our continent is being rocked by a tectonic shift not seen since the fall of the berlin wall. the consequences of this war on europe’s security architecture will be far—reaching. and i’m not just talking about security in military terms, but also energy security and even food security are at stake. so let me start with energy. energy policy is also security policy, and that’s why the commission has proposed measures that would allow us to significantly reduce our gas imports from russia. this is very ambitious, but we can achieve it. we have already set a clear path to do this and we are now accelerating. with our new proposal, repower eu, we can speed up this transition even more. first, by fast—tracking renewable projects, this is a strategic investment in our security, including hydrogen and biogas. second, by speeding up investment in energy efficiency everyone can contribute in reducing our dependency on russian gas. and third, by diversifying our gas supply away from russian gas towards reliable suppliers. tomorrow, i will discuss with president biden how to prioritise lng deliveries from the united states to the european union in the coming months. we are aiming at having a commitment for additional supplies for the next two winters. we are stronger when we use the power of our single market and deliver solidarity. in that spirit, we have just presented proposals to jointly tackle one of our root causes of the energy crisis, and these are the high and volatile gas prices. we are proposing common gas procurement and stricter rules for storage, because instead of outbidding each other and driving prices up, we should pull our common weight and start buying gas together as europeans, not 27 different member states. in addition, we should use our gas storage facilities in some member states of our union to secure the gas supplies everywhere in our union. this will not only benefit the member states where those tanks are located, but also their neighbours. take the baltics, for example. lithuania has one of the biggest lng terminals in the region, while latvia boasts massive underground storage facilities. so already today, lng gas arriving in klaipėda is used to fill storage facilities in latvia and, of course, customers in neighbouring estonia benefit as well. this is the way to go. finally, the effects of the russian war go beyond energy, of course. they are also disrupting vital food supplies and driving food prices up. the european union has assigned at least eur 2.5 billion until 2024 to help regions across the world facing food insecurity. this morning, we decided on a wide range of special measures to help european farmers. we will table a package of eur 500 million to support those most affected by the crisis. we should not forget that ukraine alone provides more than half of the world food programme’s wheat supply. the shelling and bombing makes it impossible for ukrainian farmers to sow. on top of that, putin is blocking hundreds of ships filled with wheat in the black sea. so the consequences will be felt from lebanon, egypt and tunisia to africa and the far east. i call on putin to let those ships go, otherwise, he will not only be responsible for one death, but also for famine and hunger. let these ships go! tonight will mark the first month of the russian invasion. since the very first day, europe has stood united. let us continue to do so. if there is anything that putin did not anticipate, then it’s our unity, the speed of our action and our determination. he should be in no doubt that we will stay the course. long live unity and long live europe!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. four weeks now we have been at war in europe and the first thing that comes to mind is respect for ukrainians. their fight for their country, but also for freedom and democracy, for the rule of law, is impressive. you defend the european way of life, and russia represents a gross, brutal break with civilization. the first is support for ukraine, and this has been presented in a very impressive way so far. i would like to thank all those responsible for the executive for europe's commitment. europe stands together on sanctions, in support of ukraine. the most important message is safe: guns, guns, guns. an additional eur 500 million has been allocated. i would like to express my gratitude to josep borrell for his support and leadership in this matter. the european union and nato are not parties to the conflict, but ukraine has the right to defend itself, and we support it in that. the second issue is the refugees, the children, the women who are coming to europe. i too want to pay my respects to civil society. i would like to mention warsaw as one of the places where many refugees arrive in europe. rafał trzaskowski as mayor of warsaw, civil society, citizens who help on the ground. thank you for that. they show the good side of europe. more money is needed. we're gonna have to do more layers. and in order to maintain solidarity in europe in the long term, we will also have to talk about binding solidarity mechanisms, distribution mechanisms in europe, so that everyone can contribute. the third point i want to make is to recall the question that president selensky asked us when he spoke here. he asked us the question, is it worth fighting for? are we welcome as ukrainians? can we become members of the eu? i said: yes, of course ukraine can, ukraine must become a member of the european union. i hope that this signal will also come from the council this week. why not announce a candidate status now? why not? - why not? legal issues should not deter us from doing so. and then, ladies and gentlemen, there is the 660 million euro question: we have now twice allocated 500 million euro to military aid to ukraine. but every day we send over 600 million euros to pay our gas bills to vladimir putin. that's the context in which we work. the commission has not yet been able to give a clear answer to this question. it's a fact, we're financing the war. it is a reality: we finance populism, propaganda and dictatorship. it's a reality, we're funding the war criminal in moscow. this is the reality. and that is why the council must show leadership here too, not avoid the question. the idea of a blocked account is on the table. i personally think that we should at least stop imports from russia in the case of oil and coal, where substitution is easier - not easy, but easier - but at least in these two areas. we must not evade. and the oligarchs in moscow must feel that they are on the losing end. finally, ladies and gentlemen, the geopolitical dimension: prime minister trudeau will be speaking in the european parliament this afternoon. the reason why we are so strong now is because of the economic strength of our continent, and that depends on whether trade in this world works, whether we can trade. it is the source of our wealth and economic strength. that is why i believe that we must now, with all the democracies and free societies in the world, upgrade our trade relations, negotiate a ceta plus with canada. i would remind all those who have rejected ceta in this european parliament: a trade agreement between europe and canada is not the work of the devil. it is a good basis for strengthening europe, for driving the economy, for maintaining our economic base. that is why we need the courage to go there now. and finally, joe biden picked up the phone and spoke to president xi in china. his message was clear: if china supplies arms to russia, it is supporting a war criminal. the united states will not tolerate this. i ask myself: who is going to pick up the phone and talk to china about this issue on behalf of europe? is europe prepared to speak clearly to china on this issue? don't take the wrong side. this issue is on the table, the eu-china summit is next week, and i hope that europe has the unity, the strength to say to china too that we will not tolerate it if china chooses the wrong side. we invite them to join us, but we will not tolerate the support of war criminals.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, one month after putin's criminal invasion, the strength of our unity has turned russia into an international pariah, with serious damage to its economy. but if we want to resist and support the admirable ukrainian resistance, we must direct all our efforts on two fronts: maintaining pressure on putin and strengthening the european union's strategic autonomy in energy and defence. sanctions have been up to the moment, but we must - and can - do much more: cut off russia's access to cryptocurrency exchanges, pursue tax havens that protect sanctioned oligarchs, further isolate russian banks and energy giants, and end our dependence on kremlin gas and oil. the weakness of our energy system was always a known truth that the war in russia has laid bare. we must now tackle the challenges we face: freeing ourselves from energy dependence on russia, speeding up the energy transition as much as possible and managing prices. russian gas must be supplied by diversifying sources of gas and increasing interconnections. the creation of strategic reserves and joint purchasing would also increase our energy resilience. and, if we really want to realize our strategic autonomy and lead a global transition, we need to accelerate the pace of renewable energy deployment. let us be honest, defence, which is the price of freedom and democracy, is causing the price of fuel, fertilisers, grain to rise, and this is pushing us to make urgent decisions. taxation must remain an indispensable tool to meet the cost of the crisis: designing a mechanism to reduce the cost to the most vulnerable households and businesses while increasing taxes on electricity companies for the profits that have fallen from the sky would allow us to balance the social costs of the crisis. it is also essential to completely reform the marginalist system governing the price of the union's electricity market. it's time to decouple the price of electricity from the price of gas. we cannot look the other way: we know that the price of gas causes uncontrolled price increases, despite the fact that it represents a very small fraction of total electricity generation. putin's cowardly attack also makes it inevitable that we increase our defense spending. but it's not just about spending more; it's about spending better. and so the strategic compass designed by mr borrell gives us the opportunity to use our capabilities efficiently. in these tragic hours, almost four million men, women and children have knocked on the doors of the european union. the adoption of a protection package covering the basic needs of children is urgent. you are the future of an admirable people who are now fighting for their freedoms and ours as well. the mobilization and gestures of solidarity with refugees must not only be maintained as long as the war lasts, but must lead us to a new pact on migration and asylum that can no longer wait. the images of the monstrous attacks on the civilian population are a testament to the war crimes committed by putin. the international criminal court cannot let the barbarity of this gentleman, of putin, go unpunished. the european union must also do its part: the sacrifices that each state can make for the sake of joint action by the european union will allow civic and democratic conscience to prevail.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, putin has brought back the horrors of war to europe, and a cruel reminder of those horrors of the past and present is the violent death of world war two nazi concentration camp survivor, boris romanchenko, who was killed last week in the shelling of his apartment in kharkiv. our condolences go out to his family and friends, and to all ukrainians who have lost loved ones in this senseless war. millions of people have had to flee from ukraine. women, who still a month ago were building their careers, are now homeless. children who were surrounded by their friends at their last birthday party now hold onto their pets as their only friends left. students who are studying for their final exams are now stranded and old couples who maybe used to sit in street cafes, watching passers-by, now sit for days in overcrowded trains, hoping to arrive somewhere safe, and yet they have nowhere to go. in this war, as in so many others, lives have been disrupted from one day to the next and people have been left shattered and scattered. the suffering of those refugees is immense, but there is also immense solidarity among europeans who give donations, hand out food and even open their homes for those people in need. i want to thank those volunteers wholeheartedly. you are showing what europe is about. you are showing what humanity is about. member states have eased access at the borders and are setting up housing capacities. this solidarity is important and it is outstanding, but we need to speed up and we need to redouble those efforts. we need to redouble them and we need to protect people without discrimination. as always, it’s the countries that are in close geographic proximity that take the biggest inflows, but we all need to share together as europeans, as european member states, we need to share this effort of housing refugees among member states, of registration and supporting those in need. we cannot expect a few countries alone to shoulder this immense task. all member states have to do their share and they have to do it in the long run. unfortunately, many more people will probably have to leave their home or their temporary shelter in western ukraine. the least we can do is to offer them a safe shelter, and that safe shelter needs to be organised now. let us not wait until we are sitting in a situation where we don’t know what to do next. let us prepare. we know what to do. we know that we need to be prepared. so everyone, every single member state, needs to make the efforts to make sure that those people who are traumatised by the war will finally find a place to rest and to live in safety.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council, every day the images of the devastation and the russian aggression in ukraine are more dramatic than ever, and although a month has passed since that tragic 24 february, we are still not getting used to this devastation, which we must combat by all means. it is therefore right that on thursday and friday the member states and the council should discuss how to increase support for the extraordinary resistance which the ukrainian people are waging with great difficulty. and this resistance in defending their freedom should be an example for all of us. of course there are these emergencies. support for the ukrainian people comes first. the issue of energy costs, because we know, and we have said this from the beginning, that the choices we are making to support the ukrainian people and to counter russia in its actions have a cost to us, have a cost to our citizens, and we must do everything possible so that, after already two years of a dramatic pandemic, these costs do not fall on the shoulders of the weakest. at the same time, i think we need to address the remaining emergencies. the priority is to look to the future, to look at what the european institutions need to change to ensure that the weaknesses we show today in the face of so many factors do not become a weakness in the future. the world was changing before february 24th and it will change even faster after february 24th. i think that looking at the map of the votes on the russian resolution at the un, we have to ask ourselves some questions. it is good that the council is beginning to discuss these future scenarios, because countries representing more than half the world's population did not support, abstained or voted against that resolution. we have to ask ourselves why these countries today do not look to the western model as an example to follow, as an example of cooperation, but are attracted to authoritarian models, to models that we oppose. that must be the question. friendly countries, countries which receive huge sums of money each year from both the european states and the european budget, which are not cooperating today, which are now crucial in helping russia to circumvent western sanctions. i think that the council on thursday and friday should focus on the future. if we are not able to answer these questions and have a strategy for the next ten or twenty years, where we correct these mistakes, we cannot talk about autonomy, we cannot talk about a future geopolitical role for our continent, we cannot talk about a prosperous future. i'll close with a question. president weber has spoken about it and i have been speaking about it for a long time. what happens if china invades taiwan in the morning? are we prepared to act and be prepared for any event that what happened on february 24th puts before us? i believe this is the moment when, faced with no choices, we choose a path of courageous choices.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for the last 28 days we have been witnessing a military aggression by russia and a growing series of atrocities against civilian targets, and at the same time a great test of courage and resilience by ukraine and its people. but it is also 28 days since our continent rediscovered the climate of the cold war that characterized the last century. the european union and its member states have reacted with unity and determination to the aggression of ukraine, until now. but we know that this may not be enough and in the coming weeks we may be called upon to take further decisions to counter this action. we therefore hope that the next european council will confirm the measures needed to stop the russian offensive, in agreement with our partners, and strengthen its spirit of solidarity, cooperation and support towards the millions of refugees who are forced to leave their country these days and towards those states such as poland and the other border countries which are giving an extraordinary example of welcome and in the management of the humanitarian emergency. we all know that sanctions are necessary, but at the same time they make us more vulnerable. that is why we must make an even greater effort to protect our economies from the consequences of war and to maintain the consensus of european public opinion. we welcome the first step taken in the field of defence with the launch of the strategic compass. putting defence back at the centre of our policies is crucial. our economies must continue to be supported, starting with the sectors most affected by sanctions. if the war were to continue in the coming weeks, the prospects for growth would be sharply and permanently reduced. this is why we must act on the basis of the rules of economic governance. to go back to the old rules or procedures these days would be a reform down the road and a very serious mistake. the decisions to be taken in the fields of agriculture and energy will be crucial. at the same time, in view of the forthcoming eu-china summit, we must firmly reaffirm our position, in particular by strengthening our economic, commercial and strategic autonomy and by calling unequivocally for a commitment to resolving the russia-ukraine crisis. it is time for concrete decisions that can be applied immediately for the europe of today, but above all for the europe of tomorrow.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the brutal invasion of ukraine by the putin regime requires a common, strong, united european response at all levels: economic and energy. and the common crises - what we have learned from the pandemic - require common responses, strong and fast. the pandemic led the european union to create the recovery and resilience fund and to make a huge common european loan. it led us to joint negotiation and vaccine ordering. we must do the same with the energy crisis. the international energy agency estimates that the energy companies' surplus, for 2022 alone, is 200 billion. so we need taxation and a cap on these surpluses to support households and businesses; a common european supply of lng and hydrogen gas; accelerated investment in renewable energy sources and public funds; a common european intervention against excessive profits at wholesale and retail prices and for the economy. we have rising inflation, a sharp decline in growth within the european union and a further increase in social and regional disparities. that is why we need common european borrowing with eurobonds and to deal with the crisis and the war and the invasion in ukraine, as we did with the pandemic; extending the escape clause to 2023, realistic changes to the rules of the stability pact, so as not to kill investment and recovery, so as not to cancel the positive of the recovery fund, so as to avoid a new debt crisis and savage poverty, which, if it drags the european south, will cost both the european north and the entire european union.
madam president, when i listen to certain member states’ governments who are speculating about possible oil and gas shortages for the next winter season, i really wonder how long they think and foresee that this war should last. i think we should take now all available measures to shorten this war, and that can only be done by applying now all possible sanctions on the war criminal in the kremlin in order to strangle him economically to the extent that he has to stop this war. that is why i call on our member states and the commission and the council to really prepare for comprehensive oil, gas and coal sanctions now, as early as possible, in order to have this effect and, of course, to continue with the supply of arms, humanitarian aid and financial supplies to the government of ukraine, to the extent possible, and thereby in parallel, of course, also helping the refugees. that is the comprehensive way we can achieve something, not by nitty-gritty considerations. let’s do it now. slava ukraini!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the military invasion of ukraine by putin has brought the war back to the heart of europe. but the war in ukraine is not just an aggression against a sovereign state, it is a frontal attack on our values of freedom, self-determination and democracy. if we want these values to be safeguarded in the future, in europe and elsewhere, we must be able to grasp the new phase that is opening up. the european union has responded in a timely and coordinated manner with a series of economic sanctions packages and by helping the millions of refugees who have arrived at our borders. it wasn't a given. putin was counting on our internal divisions and he was wrong. once again, the union has been able to act unitedly in the face of difficulties. but it's not enough. this war is showing the need to accelerate on our strategic autonomy, reducing energy dependence, strengthening our common defense capability, speaking with one voice in foreign policy, building a stronger european economic foundation. the versailles summit, in underlining the union's full support for ukraine, also focused on the most urgent challenges we face. but action must now follow, starting from the next council meeting, from the response to the energy crisis, with strong investment in renewable sources, with common gas purchasing stocks to reduce dependence on russian supplies already this year, already now, and with the introduction of a european ceiling on gas prices, to calm down electricity prices now and in the future and to avoid the collapse of households and businesses. only by strengthening our strategic autonomy will we be able to make the rule of law prevail over the rule of force.
madam president, four weeks into putin’s criminal invasion of ukraine, what is certain is that this war is not proceeding according to the kremlin’s fullest plans, latterly due to the impressive resistance of the ukrainian people and a strong response from the european union and our international allies. our priority now has to be ending this war. no more devastated mariupols. this requires bold action on three levels. first, keep mobilising material means and humanitarian aid to help ukraine resist the russian attack. second, increase the pressure on the kremlin and its entourage, through new sanctions – which, yes, have to include energy – now. sanctions alone will not stop putin, but they will greatly increase the cost of his war. finally, promote honest diplomatic negotiations. the strategic compass is an attempt to give the eu a little more of hard power but a little less, maybe, of soft power. but even if defence cooperation is more timely than ever, our geopolitical awakening will only be real if we are able to combine capabilities and resilience with diplomatic, effective influence.
madam president! the world is watching another week of ukrainian children, women being murdered. ukrainian cities and villages are destroyed. millions of refugees are seeking refuge in other countries. over 2 million have already arrived in poland. the poles have opened their hearts and homes and we will welcome anyone who needs help. and this is happening in every polish city, in every polish town, even the smallest. every pole is now involved in helping the ukrainian people. the polish government has no higher priority than helping ukraine and ukrainians. we're not leaving ukraine. the poles will always stand with ukraine and with ukrainians, but we need your support. we need your help. we need all these countries that are today becoming home to millions of ukrainian refugees because putin is killing children, women and destroying their beautiful homeland all the time to feel real support from the union. it's not poland, it's not slovakia, the czech republic, estonia or any other country that needs to ask for help. it is here, in this house, in the european commission, that concrete decisions, concrete and courageous decisions, must be taken. europe, have courage! courage europe, because this is the moment when the fate of not only ukraine, but the fate of all europe is at stake. putin will not stop if ukraine - this bravely, heroically defending ukraine - is defeated. he'll move on. and we all need to be aware of that. this is the time when we must be effective. it is not enough to talk, debate and hold conferences. the sanctions we adopt must be effective. this is the time when we fight for freedom for all of us.
madam president, every effort that we make in this situation has to be directed towards creating peace, reaching a ceasefire first and then a peace agreement as soon as possible. we should avoid any escalation of this terrible situation, which is terrible already. the bloodshed must end, and so we must make our decision based on that overarching goal. sanctions are undoubtedly necessary. we have come out with sanctions, come up with sanctions, but we cannot harm ourselves more in this effort than the country we want to pressure with the sanctions. so although it’s an emotional time, understandably, rationality must be maintained. now, let me come to the question of refugees. we are seeing the large influx of refugees into central europe, into the european union, and this is an extraordinary time. i salute the efforts of hungary, poland, romania, slovakia, the countries that are helping and taking most of the burden in this situation. but this is also a situation of a test of maturity for the eu and the eu institutions in particular. it is high-time to leave behind the unimportant, petty ideological debates that have divided us so much over the past. stop withholding funds to hungary and poland, as they are doing the most to help millions of ukrainian refugees. these attempts were unacceptable already before the war, but since the war they are outright scandalous. help the people who are helping the ukrainians!
madam president, the situation in ukraine is worsening. people in ukraine are being bombed, civilians are being bombed, hospitals are being bombed and schools are being bombed. so our answer needs to be clear – maximum support for ukraine and the people of ukraine, and maximum sanctions for the russian federation. we have already applied some sanctions, but i believe that more is needed and more is justified when it comes to sanctions because of what the russian army is doing in ukraine. this is why i say, firstly, the list of russian individuals who are sanctioned has to be longer. russian politicians, russian oligarchs, russian businesspeople, and all of those who are supporting the current russian regime and the invasion in ukraine have to be sanctioned. we have to stop their skiing in the alps, their sunbathing in nice, and their shopping in paris and vienna right now. secondly, we have to exclude russian entities from public procurement in the european union. russian companies still have access to public procurement, including in key sectors. we have to stop that. and thirdly, we have to stop funding the war machine, which means that we have to reduce as much as possible our imports of coal, gas and oil. i am for a total ban of these into europe, even if it has costs. we have to see that defending democracy costs, but not defending it costs even more.
madam president! for a month now, ukrainians have been heroically defending their country, but also democratic europe and the world from a brutal russian attack. while the fight for life is on, the commonwealth is sanctioning kremlin criminals. i don't want to be a black hat here, but on the one hand, we're blocking swift, and on the other hand, hundreds of russian trucks are coming into our streets every day. on the one hand, we're banning the export of expensive handbags, on the other hand, we're paying billions for russian raw materials. we freeze the assets of the oligarchs or, as in poland, we just talk about it loudly, but in tax havens their money is doing well. the penalties imposed must first be effective. we can't just take them as a way to ease our conscience. we can't pretend to be happy anymore. it's time for more transparency and consistency in our actions. it's time to put russia on the blacklist of countries that launder money. it's time for decisive action and a clear plan to move quickly away from russian fossil fuels. to quote president zelensky, we don't need a clear conscience from the west, we need action.
madam president! i ask the commissioner and the french presidency whether the french presidency will take into account what poland is doing for refugees. we've taken in two million refugees, we haven't received any money from the national recovery plan. do you think that's fair? will you help us? because this money is poland's. i'm counting on you to be on the side of truth and justice. i am very surprised that today in this debate there is no thanks to poland, poles, the polish government, polish local governments, local governments in the carpathian region, who help refugees from ukraine by taking them under their roof. and i know why you're ignoring it, because you're ashamed that you voted against poland in this room many times before. you wanted to impose sanctions against poland for some alleged lack of rule of law. you're ashamed of that and you don't mention poland. and poland today is the first country to give aid without any interest. i ask the representative of the french presidency for an answer and for help for poland, for the poles who serve the ukrainians who fled from putin's bombs from ukraine, from their homeland and from their homes.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the agreed joint text of the resolution to be voted on tomorrow has serious flaws. on the one hand, it points to the need for additional flexibility in the new cap and for increased food production in the european union, and on the other hand, it vigorously promotes the objectives of the green deal, especially in the 'from the field to the table' strategy. these two directions, ladies and gentlemen, are irreconcilable. the following elements, reported by commissioner janusz wojciechowski, are positive and expected by farmers: first, intervention on the pigmeat market; second, the use of the emergency reserve; third, the temporary suspension of the obligation to defer, provided for under the green deal, and the possibility for member states to pay farmers aid for fertilisers. moreover, the text clearly shows the double standards typical of the european institutions with regard to the member states. the only country criticized by name is hungary, but the name nord stream 2 is not mentioned once in the entire text. we still have a europe of the good and the bad.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to speak at this moment while people are dying and suffering in ukraine. commissioner, let's support the ukrainian farmers! but it's hard to manage at this point when putin is killing farmers, killing people, bombing their fields, destroying infrastructure. we know the real measure is to stop putin's aggression. stopping funding putin's military with our oil and gas money. we know, but we don't act. of course, we also know that after this year's harvest, 30% of the world's wheat and barley trade will be missing from ukraine. we therefore consider it our duty to ensure sufficient agricultural and food production not only for our citizens but also for ukraine. we have to support the farmers. we need to maximize our land and resources. we simply cannot afford a 10% drop in production at this point in farm to fork. therefore, commissioner, please!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this unjust and unjustifiable war is putting our production chains and our food security at risk. war is an exceptional and extraordinary event, to which europe must respond with equally exceptional and extraordinary measures, both to help bring it to an end and to defend our food security. as we build a long-term strategy for our autonomy, we must have the courage to recognize that the various pre-war sustainability strategies in ukraine must be contextualized. it is therefore necessary to understand how to re-modulate any initiative that may affect european production capacity and to adapt our strategies in the light of the emerging critical issues. no one wants to give up a more sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture, but we must be pragmatic. environmental sustainability cannot be separated from economic sustainability if we want to make our companies more competitive in order to achieve the result we have set as our ambition and want to achieve.
madam president, the issue of food security is the reason why putin’s invasion of ukraine is on the verge of becoming the most disastrous geopolitical moment in modern history. a group of states already on the edge of famine are totally dependent on ukraine and russian exports. even for the more commercially independent, the rise in global energy and food prices will push citizens over the edge. we should remember that the last food crisis in 2007-2008 resulted in riots in 40 countries across the world. the resolution correctly diagnoses the seriousness of the situation in the eu, but we have to understand how much more serious the situation is for the developing world. in europe, one of the most food-secure regions in the world, it’s about balancing, on the one hand, the need to increase production, while retaining our gains on climate targets. it’s a question of managing disruption, of managing price pressures. but in the developing world, it is a question, sadly, of life and death.
i think that we all understand that ukraine needs peace today. this is what is needed most. but the war affected other areas as well. and, in fact, if there is a shortage of food in ukraine, there will be a shortage of food in the world, so we have to do everything we can, we have to hear what ukraine is saying, to help them plant as much as possible. it's time to do it. there's no time to wait. and, in fact, the more ukraine is involved, the more opportunities we have here in europe to carry out our various programmes. and the second thing is, we have to help export routes. the main source of exports from ukraine is the seaports. the ports are occupied, mined and unable to operate today. we must also pay attention to this and help. even if we do, we won't be able to get out.
madam president! i wanted to thank the commissioner for returning to organic farming, because the situation is very serious. we have to rebuild the small, natural farms that have been destroyed in recent years by the big food mafia operating on an industrial scale. we have to go back to that and we have to hit ourselves in the chest, because what are we seeing today on the european meadows? instead of cows and sheep, we see these big solar farm beds. wind farms are growing above the forests today. that's what the environmentalists don't see. that's what the greens don't see. i thought today the greens would help us answer the question, what do we do? i just heard that you need to eat less and then you'll be better. ladies and gentlemen, we have a water retention problem. right now, environmentalists are blocking the construction of water reservoirs for farmers, and that water is needed for food production. and my final question to the commissioner is: will there be any disruption for those farmers who produce biomass? can we reconcile this in this difficult situation?
the ukrainian accident. the russian aggression on february 27th shattered the european dream that our security would be provided by nato and the united states, that we would have energy security guaranteed by russia, and also in food security, which is better provided than the first two, we see how we are dependent on the market of ukraine and also russia. we've seen huge increases in prices before this war, on the one hand, for energy, and then for fertilizer, and then there's a shortage of fertilizer, so food security has been threatened before. this crisis certainly requires us to do what the commission has proposed - to take decisive action to ensure maximum production this year. and also what we've written into the strategy to think carefully about the impact of these strategies that are on our table. if we haven't had impact assessments before, what these strategies mean when we should have them, now is the time to think about it seriously. - thank you. - thank you.
madam president, our fishing industry is currently facing a similarly dramatic situation: the prices of fuel and logistics are soaring and preventing the fleet from going out to work. the european union must urgently adopt ambitious solutions to mitigate the economic impact on fisheries and aquaculture of the tragic war in ukraine. the threshold for state aid, known as 'de minimis aid', should be raised to eur 500 000 per vessel and funding from the new european maritime and fisheries fund should be mobilised as a matter of urgency to compensate operators. in addition, my group, the people's party, has tabled an amendment to the motion for a resolution which we shall be voting on tomorrow to call for a legislative reform to enable this fund to also provide emergency aid in times of crisis. in addition, in the event of widespread stoppages, we should increase the interannual flexibility of fishing quotas by up to 25%. in any case, solutions should not come exclusively from brussels. the governments of the member states also have a responsibility to support the maritime industry chain at this really critical time.
member of the commission. - madam president! - i have to go. we are indeed talking in extremely dramatic circumstances that we could not have imagined until recently. when we had a council meeting two days ago, on monday, and the ukrainian minister of agriculture was speaking, he was talking about the fact that two of his friends, farmers working in the field, had been killed while working in the field, and at one point the ukrainian minister's speech was interrupted by a bomb alert that had been sounded in kiev. with few exceptions, this is a situation that europe has not seen since 1945. it happened in the 1970s in cyprus, it happened in the 1990s in the countries of the former yugoslavia, and it finally happened in ukraine. a country that has been known for centuries at least for its imperial tendencies, has attacked ukraine, a country that is an important agricultural producer. it's destroying the country's infrastructure, it's blocking ports, it's preventing the export of tens of millions of tons of grain so vital to food security around the world. i was accused of not talking about africa. i feel that i have mentioned africa among the regions that are affected by this situation. what can the european union do in this situation? of course, we are helping ukraine in many ways, including in this area. first of all, there is a great effort to help refugees - that is a great effort of the europeans (more than two or three million refugees arrived in three weeks). in the great migration crisis of 2015, there were one million eight hundred thousand migrants in the whole year. i have a lot of respect for all those who help refugees. over 2 million refugees are in the country i know best, my home country, poland. we're helping ukrainian farmers, realizing how important they are to food security, how important their work is. they are defending not just their own fields, but food security on a broader global scale. we're supplying the fuel. poland is ready to supply and is already supplying fuel to ukrainian farmers, and the european union, the european commission is ready to bear the financial consequences of these supplies and this is very important and hence the changes and those that i presented in my first speech and which are contained in this communication. in a situation where the world's food supply is reduced by tens of millions of tons (we already know this), with ukraine being blocked as the victim of aggression and russia largely blocked as the perpetrator of aggression, can we afford to have the land in the european union, 4 million hectares of productive land, not producing? no, that wouldn't be wise. that would be contrary to reason and concern for food security. and that's why this amendment was proposed, and i think most of you in this debate have been very sympathetic to it. a lot of the discussion was about food security. i would just like to remind you that the field-to-table strategy clearly states (and i myself have called for this to be included) that we are to monitor the impact of the implementation of the strategy on food security. and we're in a situation where we have to respond to those elements of the strategy that can have a negative impact on food security. deforestation at this point has that effect, and that's why it had to be done, which is to allow production in areas that were previously forested. but other elements of the strategy, i strongly believe, have a very positive impact on food security: coal farming and big plans to develop it, supporting farmers in practices that are good for the environment, but also good for the soil, good for the climate - that is, a positive impact on food security - or short supply chains, which have a very positive impact on food security, are very important for this security, or precision agriculture, which has an absolutely positive impact on food security. animal welfare every farmer knows that in animal production, animal welfare leads to better production and lack of welfare leads to losses. every farmer knows this, so there's no reason to be dismissive of these elements that have a positive impact on production. so i can't agree with the comments that say to throw this strategy in the trash. no, we need to monitor, we need to assess the impact on food security, and many of the elements of these strategies have a very positive impact on food security. agricultural policy becomes security policy. we have not fully realized until now that, like defence policy, like energy policy, and perhaps in some elements even more so, we cannot live without food and we must treat this policy as such. i'm sorry i won't go into detail here, but mr. dorfmann mentioned it, and several other speakers, including mr. lins, that we need more funds. it is not the commissioner's role to make such demands here at this moment, but on this food security policy, on the common agricultural policy, the great food security policy, we spend today about 0.3% of the gross domestic product of the european union. the 58 billion euros we spend on the cap every year, compared to the 15 trillion euros of the european union's gross domestic product, that's it. i think we need to think this through. if we want to have food security, if we want to have fundamental food security, we need to increase our capacity to act in this area. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. this debate was very much needed, and of course this is the beginning of efforts to strengthen food security. thank you for the debate, but first of all thank you for the inspiration for the decisions we have already taken in the commission. i think they will have an impact in this short term, and in the longer term, we really need to think deeply about our strategy of action to make europe food secure and also to have a positive impact on food security in the world.
president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i will be brief to simply add a few remarks on behalf of the presidency. the dual european responsibility which i mentioned at the beginning of this debate is, i believe, widely shared beyond the nuances and differences of expression which have taken place, and i believe it is shared within the council: to produce sufficient and quality food for europeans - that is our duty, which we must never lose sight of, and the first function of this agricultural policy - and to have a production capacity which puts us in a position to assume the international solidarity which is indispensable today - we said that, and many of you have noted that. the answer is the same to both responsibilities: to produce in europe, according to the rules, standards and norms we have defined. i believe that there is no contradiction, as has been said by several speakers, between this nurturing function and an agricultural policy which obviously contributes to the ecological transition. farmers are the first actors in the fight against climate change, and i believe that there is no european choice to be made between these two imperatives. we must discuss - and this will also be discussed at the european council and the agriculture ministers' councils - pragmatic adjustments, if necessary, to take account of the crisis we are experiencing, the war and its consequences for europe and the world. it is in this spirit that the president of the republic will take a european and international initiative on behalf of france, on behalf of the presidency, so that we coordinate, as we did with regard to vaccines and medical devices during the covid-19 crisis, gestures and actions of international solidarity to ensure that countries, sometimes close to europe, do not find themselves in disastrous and dramatic situations, which would also have serious consequences for our europe in the coming weeks and months. finally, i would point out that since we have spoken about food, this obviously concerns the agricultural sector, but also the fisheries issue, which was raised by several speakers, and which requires that we have, in the face of this crisis as well, support and accompanying mechanisms. and on behalf of the council, commissioner, as was done 48 hours ago, i cannot but encourage the commission to monitor all the measures we will have to mobilise and, if necessary, to go further than the initial measures already taken to support both our agriculture and our fisheries in the european union.
in writing. the russian military aggression against ukraine proves once again that food production is a strategic sector and food security cannot be taken for granted. in response to this situation, the eu needs to reduce its dependence on imports of certain strategic raw materials. to this end, it is necessary to increase domestic production and diversify supply chains, without allowing harmful practices such as the ban on cereals exports, which threaten the proper functioning of the internal market for agricultural products. in the face of rising energy, raw material, fertiliser and feed prices, our farmers need additional support to mitigate the impact on the sectors most affected and to offset the increase in their production costs. i therefore welcome the measures proposed by the ep to mobilise a crisis reserve of almost eur 500 million, the immediate application of emergency measures against market disturbances, more flexibility in the granting of state aid, the extension of the scope of the emergency measures for rural development in relation to covid to overcome the ongoing liquidity problems of farmers, the increase of advance payments, as well as the adaptation of the national strategic plans to the new circumstances, including the possibility of increasing arable land.
in writing. the ukrainian war, besides its dramatic consequences for so many ukrainians who have been forced to take up arms or thrown on the streets, is a new indication of the imbalances in the world's food systems. despite the availability of arable land, the african continent, for example, remains largely dependent on food imports. egypt imports about 90% of its wheat from russia and ukraine. and while alternatives are certainly possible, we cannot ignore an aggiornamento, which would make it possible to achieve food self-sufficiency. eu development aid should help finance investments that are essential for the growth of local agriculture, for example rural electrification, which has been left unattended for too long. in the immediate future, all measures must be taken to avoid a hunger crisis in some of the least developed countries, which are also facing major security challenges, such as the sahel. but hopefully this tragedy will lead to a healthy awareness.
in writing. europe is experiencing the greatest tragedy since the end of the second world war. russia's aggression is not only causing death and suffering to the ukrainian people, this aggression affects in one form or another the whole of humanity. everything around us is affected by the war in ukraine, from fuel to fertilizer, the russia-ukraine conflict is shaking up the markets. this war and the legitimate sanctions imposed on russia have already led to a major disruption of world agricultural markets. moreover, because of russian bombing of black sea ports, trade in food is becoming almost impossible. the european union must, without delay, provide additional financial support to the agricultural sector to help farmers to mitigate the lack of imports from ukraine and russia. the farm to fork strategy and the european green deal also need to be reviewed in order to increase the area under cultivation. the european union must be a leader, ensuring food security for both europe and developing and low-income countries, which are particularly at risk of food crises.
in writing. in the wake of russia's unprovoked and unjustified aggression against ukraine, we are facing a food crisis in europe and our immediate neighbourhood. ukraine and russia account for about 30% of the world's wheat supply, 32% of barley, 17% of maize, and over 50% of sunflower oil. moreover, the supply chain of fertilisers and raw materials needed for their production is already destabilised at this point. but we cannot allow a situation in which in a few months' time there will be no bread on the shelves of shops in the eu or its price will increase several times. first of all, we should temporarily increase production in europe as much as possible so that we are not vulnerable to market shocks resulting from shortages of agricultural products, but also so that we can export grain to ukraine if war activities prevent the harvest this year. i want to emphasize that these actions are not aimed at becoming independent of the import of cereals and oil from ukraine in the future, because this is a country with a huge agricultural potential. agriculture is an important part of the ukrainian economy and we must remember this when it comes to rebuilding the country. putin is aware of this, which is why he ordered the land mines to starve the ukrainian people and destabilize the grain market in the neighborhood. we can't let him do this!
on behalf of the s&d group. – madame president, let me start by thanking our rapporteur, mr van overveldt, a lot for successfully steering the commission’s proposal, in the spirit of cooperation and compromise, to achieve the best result. asset organisation is a major application of distributed ledger technology (dlt) in finance, and we need to test how it could be deployed, as well as financial market infrastructures on the issuance, registering, trading, settling and safekeeping of tokenised financial instruments. it is of great importance to acknowledge the benefits of the use of blockchain that allows, basically, the transactions to be recorded on a distributed ledger, and for trading and settlement to happen without delays – virtually in real time – enabling the merger of trading and post-trading activities. i think it’s very important that we manage to test this technology in a structured manner across the eu, in accordance, as our reporter rightly said, with the technology neutrality principle and innovation-friendly principle, building upon the spirit of the first blockchain resolution in 2015. hopefully the related markets in cryptoassets (mica) file will also follow the same spirit. the dlt pilot regime regulation has been adopted by a large majority. i hope that this will enable a trustworthy framework and a protected result to follow, in a safe way, the implementation of a more permanent legislation. so thank you so much, rapporteur, and thank you commissioner.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i will speak on behalf of my dear friend and colleague stéphanie yon—courtin. the distributed ledger technology (dlt) pilot regime is yet another good proof that europe is the continent for digital finance. with the pilot regime, europe will be a pioneer on the use of blockchain on the financial markets. and with this pilot regime, innovative financing solutions for smes will be developed in europe. so with the pilot regime, disruption will shape the future of the financial markets with no concessions on financial stability and on consumer protection. in that case, renew fully supports the trilogue agreement and we hope for swift progress on the rest of the digital finance package.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to miss the challenge of blockchain innovation would be a serious mistake, of course. a pseudo-ecological obscurantism would like to ban them on the grounds that they are too consumerist. it is strange that they don't think of banning youtube and other popular and energy-intensive social networks. the only proven consequences of the absurd limitation of distributed ledgers, or blockchain, will be to allow china, the united states or others to dominate us technologically and economically, as we have seen with the data cloud, i mean the cloud. we must not enter into a millenarianism of decline, but trust in man's capacity to innovate, to adapt and to surpass himself. it's the genius of our civilization since aristotle.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the use of distributed ledger technology (dlt) can be a tremendous ally in the quest for a stronger capital markets union. the current regulatory framework is not sufficiently equipped to deal with the increasing digitalisation of the financial sector. well-targeted derogations from existing legislation should allow our capital markets to take advantage of the opportunities offered by this technology. we welcome the creation of a testing ground for the use of digital ledger technology in this field, with the potential for countless innovations. dlt offers, for example, the opportunity to reimagine clearing and settlement in a true, borderless 24—7 operating environment, providing access to securities and cash pools to facilitate real—time settlements, delivering at near—100% settlement rates. with the vote on the dlt pilot regime tomorrow, we are taking a quantum leap towards the much—needed further digitalisation of our capital markets. therefore, i congratulate the rapporteur and parliament’s negotiating team for a job well done.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i wish to thank mr van overtveldt for his fair and diligent work on this file. unfortunately, the end result goes much too far in the direction of deregulation for the left group. this is best summed up by the fact that thresholds set by the commission proposal to contain this pilot project have been increased recklessly. the european central bank (ecb), for example, expressed concern at the beginning of the process that for some countries, the thresholds might need to be lowered and that there was a danger of them being circumvented. the left were not alone in this position, with meps from other groups also seeking to reduce or at least maintain these thresholds. let me be clear; this is not opposition to innovation or technological advances. it is opposition to irresponsibility and to industry lobbying leading to a pilot project spiralling into what would be, effectively, an exercise in deregulation.
madam president, commissioner, first of all, and in view of the wide support for the proposal for a regulation on a pilot scheme for developing digital infrastructures, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs and in particular eva kaili, the alternative rapporteur for my group. and i would also like to take advantage of this debate - while we welcome the broad agreement on this proposal for a regulation - to regret that there was no similar agreement on the adoption of the mica regulation just a few days ago in the econ committee and that, moreover, that committee, or the right wing in that committee, blocked the debate in the plenary on the mica regulation because that regulation required, in our opinion, a clear debate in this parliament, especially at this time and after hearing the previous debate on the effects of the russian invasion of ukraine. because these technologies, these digital currencies, have a brutal energy consumption; these technologies are being used to launder capital, to launder capital movements. and i hope that in the tripartite dialogue both requirements can be incorporated into the negotiation between parliament and the council.
member of the commission. – madam president, can you hear me? i have to say, there’s something rather bizarre about a debate on technology when the technology fails. but what is wonderful is that we actually do have technology supplements, so well done, madam president, and all the technical advisers. i think one of the earlier speakers mentioned that they would not sing – in fact a fellow irish person, i believe. i’ve certainly been known to do that. but what really strikes me, getting back to our debate here this evening, is the unity of purpose amongst you, the rapporteur and the shadows, and also your leadership, mr van overtveldt, is deeply appreciated, because this is a first. and i think it’s good to be involved in something that is a first, but also it is not a free-for-all. it is a first with conditionality. we have to test something to see does it work before we make any more decisions. so it’s been really good to hear this debate here this evening. i very much look forward to the vote in this house tomorrow. and in terms of deregulation, i’m on record, i think, in one of my first interventions in this parliament as commissioner responsible for financial services, that deregulation is not on my agenda, but effective, better regulation is: innovation and technology is part of that. lastly, if i may say that i had the great pleasure of meeting a group of young people today. they were young leaders, in fact, from northern ireland, and they were in the commission, and it was absolutely impressive to hear them talk about cryptocurrencies, this technology and what young people are doing. so it’s really important that we in this house are involved in this, because the future is digital and young people are not starting from where we start from. they’re already there. so well done to all of you for your work, for your cooperation, and for being part of what is a first.
in writing. digitalisation is affecting all areas of our lives, including the economy. the characteristic feature of our civilization - and the determining factor in its development - has always been openness to creative invention. we have achieved success through unbiased adaptation of invention and innovation. emerging digital technologies are revolutionizing financial markets. they allow you to make efficient and secure transactions in a completely new way that has never been seen before. they also allow for the creation of new digital assets. the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. the european union, often associated with red tape and red tape, has an opportunity to attract digital financial markets and develop this sector of the economy through friendly legislation. this is all the more important because the concepts of free markets and free choice were born in europe: we should be the natural leader in this race. the dlt pilot programme is paving the way for safe and regulated trading of crypto-assets. of course, in this area, we naturally have to be concerned about money laundering, which we want to prevent at all costs. therefore, in parallel to the facilitations we are introducing, we need to finalise the work on the aml package.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to take this opportunity to thank mrs winzig for her excellent work as rapporteur for the committee responsible for roaming. it is important that we maintain the core objective of regulation in this area, namely that we want to offer the single market to citizens, users, consumers in a way that is most beneficial to them. it is true that this has naturally had to limit the economic aspects of the providers to a certain extent; and we see - and i know that mrs winzig is aware of this - that over the last ten years, investments in the european telecommunications market have been much less attractive than, for example, in the american market. we see this in some companies, which i will not mention. but it is our task for the next ten years to simplify the conditions for investment in europe. at the same time, madam president, i should like to point out briefly that three points are important to me, also as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection: calls within the eu have been included in the scope. that's good. it makes no sense that calls from home to another eu country are covered and may be more expensive than calls abroad. secondly, mrs winzig has been able to ensure that the same quality is guaranteed for services at home and abroad. this is important because with 5g, it's going to be more and more important that the services have the quality. finally, it is important that effective access to emergency calls be given the same importance in all member states and be available everywhere at the same speed. there are three good reasons why all citizens of the european union today benefit from this proposal. and for that, thank you very much, mrs. winzig.
member of the commission. – madam president, really, i do want to say a big thank you to honourable members and the rapporteurs because your work on the negotiations means that every european will continue to benefit for a further 10 years from the freedom to travel across the union without having to pay additional roaming charges for calls, text messages and mobile data. and this is an excellent result. for many people it’s not only a feature that they enjoy and they are aware of, it’s a clear symbol of what it means to be part of the single market. we’ve seen that leaving the single market brought back roaming surcharges for many british citizens. with the agreement reached in december eu citizens will not only be free from surcharges but will also be guaranteed better quality, better protection from hidden costs and better access to emergency services. the work of this house also greatly contributed to making this regulation more sustainable for telecom operators by providing a path for reduction of the caps for prices at wholesale level while still ensuring cost recovery. it’s now crucial that the new rules enter into force before the existing regulation expires in june. one final point. recently, many of you, and indeed many of our member states, have raised the roaming charges issue in the context of putin’s aggression against ukraine as a way to show our support and solidarity with the people of ukraine in this tragic moment. i could not agree more. in the face of this crisis, for ukrainian citizens forced to flee their country, being able to communicate with their loved ones back home is of the utmost importance. i’m very happy to report that various european telecom operators took swift action to reduce roaming costs, to provide hundreds of thousands of free sim cards or free calls to ukraine or free wi-fi in border areas or shelters. these voluntary measures are the quickest way to address this challenge and have already made a real difference on the ground to many refugees. the commission has been calling on european operators to continue these measures for as long as this tragic situation persists, and for more operators to join this action as ukrainian citizens are increasingly moving across all of europe. we are also looking into possibilities to go further. together with the european telecom regulators we are working closely with eu operators and ukrainian authorities on this issue. i’m sure this is very important for this house and i’m very pleased to bring that information to you, and i look forward to our debate.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, this agreement to extend free roaming for ten years allows anyone to understand what it means to move forward in the digital single market. thanks to a process of integration, we have consolidated a right that we also notice in our pockets, because there will be no additional costs for making voice calls or using data services while travelling in the european union. i would like to take this opportunity to propose that we should try - as the commissioner has said - to solve the problem of roaming for the millions of displaced persons arriving in the union from ukraine: to connect with their families and friends who are defending the values of our union against the dictatorship of putin on the ground there is a basic need, and to do so from here has a heavy cost for them. progress in the digital single market is also a stimulus that opens up opportunities for innovation to foster the emergence of new services that strengthen our competitiveness in the data economy, in the digital economy. finally, this step forward is also a hope. this agreement shows that if there is a willingness to dialogue and a commitment, there are mechanisms to intervene in prices when the market itself is not functioning properly. the union must urgently deploy this same regulatory capacity in other sectors, such as energy, whose market needs further integration. europe's sovereignty and resilience depend on it.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, commissioner, five years ago, the end of mobile tariff frontiers was a before and after for users. the implementation of the rules over the years has been a success, demonstrating not only the opportunity but also the feasibility of the rules. today, with the extension of the roaming regulation for the next ten years, we are taking a further step by reinforcing the principle of 'roam like at home' and quality assurance of service provision. thanks to the role of parliament in the negotiations, we have succeeded in gradually lowering the maximum prices that operators charge each other for the use of the network, thus facilitating greater market diversification. it is also worth noting that more emergency service numbers are included, which should be provided at no additional cost to the roaming user. finally, i believe that the text imposes acceptable obligations on operators, while at the same time strengthening the rights of users to access mobile services of the same quality and price as in their country of origin. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs for the work they have done.
for the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to express my deep appreciation for the cooperation of the whole parliamentary team, led by the rapporteur, mrs winzig, and at the same time congratulate her on the regulation that has been agreed, because it has not been easy. regrettably, in the past, administrative intervention has proved necessary in the telecommunications roaming services. the market was unable to find reasonable parameters for a long time. we see that the abolition of roaming across the union based on the principle of roam like at home has worked, and i am therefore pleased that our citizens will be able to benefit from the current system for the next ten years. we have further improved consumer awareness when crossing borders, solved the problem of emergency numbers and added value services. as a shadow rapporteur for the previous roaming legislation, the final night's debate on wholesale price ceilings was a kind of déjà vu for me. interestingly, we always approve roaming sometime after midnight. my approach has always been more conservative. the price ceilings should serve as a hedge, as a real ceiling under which all operators hide. the compromise reached in defining wholesale data caps is therefore a very reasonable solution. once again, thank you to ms. winzig and all of my fellow shadow reporters.
madam president, consumers today may take it for granted, but i remember the huge bills consumers faced for using their phone while roaming. it was outrageous. for me, it is clear: extending the ban on roaming charges is the right step. the end of roaming is a concrete example of the european union solving a practical problem. we did the same with limiting the costs of long-distance calls – so-called intra-eu calls. during the last mandate, i fought hard for our citizens to get a deal on lower prices on long-distance calls. however, the price limits that protect the most vulnerable among us will expire in may 2024. so the commission should now extend the price limits on intra-eu calls, or even go further and abolish long-distance surcharges altogether. the message today is clear: ‘no’ to roaming charges and ‘no’ to long distance.
madam president, five years went quickly. i am very happy now because i was the rapporteur last mandate. i know the mandate before, we didn't succeed. last mandate we did and it was thanks to the good work of parliament mainly that we managed to push down prices. and now i may congratulate the negotiators on the good results, with the right data prices, fair-use policy, even improved quality of service. but today we do have people among us who long for their dear ones in ukraine. and thanksto the generosity of the telecom operators, as the commissioner told us, there have been free sim cards and services and wifi offered. but i also see, and there has been readiness for the regional roaming agreement, which was due to be signed by the end of the year. i have not seen any news that it took place. is that the case? we need to help and i want to have concrete measures. we are helping many companies. can we also not only plead with them to do it for free?
member of the commission. – mr president, just to say this is a very pleasant debate because it’s good work and it’s progress, all building on what has already been the case. ms charanzová, i think you were right to remind us of how it used to be, because we tend to just take this for granted that we can ‘roam like at home’. so again, to thank the parliament for this good cooperation and ensuring that the continued benefits apply for all eu citizens and businesses, particularly in the single market and how it functions. i want to thank those of you who commented on the issue of roaming for ukrainian refugees. i want to give you the assurance that my colleague thierry breton and his services are committed to supporting ukraine and its people, and are actively engaging with all relevant counterparts, with support by berec, to ensure fast and coordinated action, and i think all of us fully support that. so thank you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 march 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the unlimited availability and affordability of mobile communications for all when travelling within the european union has made life much easier for eu citizens. the revolutionary facilitation of mobile communications within the eu in 2017 has made the free movement of persons between the member states of the european union equally more comfortable and secure, directly strengthening one of the four fundamental freedoms, while indirectly having a significant impact on the other three. the democratic coalition's vision is that mobile communications, accessible without borders, both technically and economically, are of paramount importance for the viability of the united states of europe, as they want to ensure that the rights and affairs of hungarian citizens are managed and protected at the european union level. the eu first reduced roaming charges in 2007 and then abolished them for consumers in 2017. five years after the adoption of the legislation, we will extend this measure and further reduce the burden on mobile operators to ensure that roaming regulation remains sustainable.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on 'suisse secrets' and 'how to introduce anti-money laundering standards in third countries' (2022/2572 ((rsp)). i would point out that you can use your voting machine to request spontaneous messages and insert blue cards after you have inserted your voting card. i would therefore ask you to bring your voting card with you at all times. instructions are available in the chamber. if you wish to register for a spontaneous debate, i would ask you to do so now and not wait until the end of the debate. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. this does not apply to spontaneous speeches, blue cards and statements on the rules of procedure. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time. ladies and gentlemen, i've been hearing this saying since the pandemic. and another note: when you speak from the podium in front of us, please be careful not to touch the microphone, because otherwise we have a very loud sound, which can be very painful for the interpreters.
president of the council. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting the presidency to contribute to this debate on a sensitive and important subject. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is a priority for the french presidency of the council, to which the council as a whole is committed. this is a matter of concern for our security and a matter of growing concern for our citizens. over the past few years, parliament, the council and the commission have worked closely together on these issues, so that our anti-money laundering framework has been considerably strengthened and progressively improved. as we know, despite these advances, much remains to be done. in this sense, we are currently working to advance the discussions on the sixth anti-money laundering package presented by the european commission, madam commissioner, last july. we are actively pursuing our efforts on this matter to start interinstitutional negotiations as soon as possible. on the more specific swiss secret file, the suspicions raised by these leaks are obviously of very great concern. they are extremely damaging when it comes to money laundering. as regards the concrete determination of what actually happened, in view of the seriousness of the facts, i will leave it to the commission to assess any investigations. the commission is of course directly responsible for notifying such risks affecting the internal market of the european union, in cooperation, where appropriate, with judicial authorities. in the council we are of course prepared to examine any list updated by the commission and any conclusions which might be drawn from the facts, as has always been the case. we know that in the coming weeks and months we will have the opportunity to define the most effective regime we have ever put in place to fight precisely money laundering and terrorist financing through this activity. among the legislative dossiers under consideration, the regulation on the fight against money laundering should make it possible to continue to codify and strengthen the european union's rules on our policy towards third countries. as such, this draft legislation is a very good starting point, according to the presidency, for our future discussions, once we have finalised our respective positions in the council and parliament. as regards the regulation on transfers of funds, to continue with the legislative files, we also intend to start negotiations with the european parliament as soon as your assembly has decided to do so. we hope that a political agreement can still be reached during our six-month term as president of the council. i thank you for your commitment to this subject, for your personal commitment, madam commissioner, within the college, and i am of course at your disposal to continue our exchanges.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for the opportunity to speak on a really important topic. before i really get into the depth of the debate, can i thank you, minister, for your commitment, and that of the french presidency, for our anti-money-laundering package. it’s really important and i do appreciate the support and the work. we’ve all followed successive revelations on money laundering with huge concern. these swiss secrets are just the latest. they reveal that credit suisse maintained business relationships with dozens of corrupt government officials, criminals and alleged human-rights abusers for several years. in the commission, we’ve made the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism a key priority. and we know that there is work to be done to tackle this issue. we stepped up the fight with the adoption of the legislative package in july of last year, and i know that we can rely on this house to work in a timely way on these proposals. the commission has put a particular focus on the enforcement of existing rules, as communicated in the action plan on money laundering in may 2020. we all share the view that we need to continue to strengthen our defences against money laundering and terrorism financing in the union and that we need to address the risks from third countries. so now i want to turn to the ‘swiss secrets’ case in more detail. like the european parliament, the commission regards these revelations as very concerning. i would like to reassure this house that we will not ignore the severe failings which this case has laid bare. i am determined to spare no effort in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism, both in the eu and in third countries. the war in ukraine is showing yet again that there is a need to clean up the financial system. we are determined to continue our work within the union and with our allies to rid the global financial system of money laundering. the swiss secrets revelations focus on the shortcomings of credit suisse in its customer due diligence checks. credit institutions need to verify customer identities and the source of funds to avoid their services being used to launder money. the intensity of these checks depends on the customer’s risk profile. the proper application of customer due diligence for onboarding customers and throughout the entire business relationship is a cornerstone of the eu’s preventative framework for anti-money laundering and countering terrorism financing. we have carefully analysed the implications of the swiss secrets revelations to ensure that the eu’s financial system is protected. to our knowledge, and according to the information from the investigative journalists, the cases revealed refer exclusively to this particular bank and its activities in switzerland. i would like to underline that all subsidiaries and branches of third-country institutions in the eu must apply eu rules and are supervised for their implementation accordingly. however, deficiencies in a third country’s anti-money laundering framework can also pose a problem for the eu, where there is a high level of integration of the financial system and a high volume of cross-border transactions with the eu. the commission has a legal obligation to protect the functioning of the eu’s internal market, and that is why, in line with our anti-money laundering directive, the commission has to identify third countries with strategic deficiencies in their national anti-money laundering and countering of terrorism regimes. switzerland’s anti-money laundering framework and its implementation were assessed by the commission in 2019. that assessment found deficiencies in the swiss framework. this autonomous assessment also took into account the results of the mutual evaluation report of switzerland in 2016 by the financial action task force – the global standard-setter in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. the european union and switzerland have strong economic ties. as recently demonstrated, the commission is working closely with switzerland on sanctions imposed on russia. an important element of our approach towards third countries is dialogue and cooperation with the countries concerned. the commission has already engaged with its swiss counterparts to improve switzerland’s measures to fight money laundering. the commission met with the swiss authorities most recently on 1 march of this year. this approach of dialogue and engagement is starting to show positive results. switzerland has adopted reforms in relation to the fight against money laundering over the past few years. in march of last year, the swiss parliament passed amendments to the swiss aml (anti-money laundering) act. these amendments include an obligation for banks to verify beneficial owners and apply higher standards of ‘know your customer’ procedures. my services are taking a closer look at these latest reforms and are analysing whether they address the issues revealed by swiss secrets. we understand that these amendments enter into force in july of this year. this is a step in the right direction, but effective implementation is of the utmost importance and the commission will closely follow up on this. we are intensifying contact with swiss counterparts to impress on them our concerns. we will maintain our dialogue with switzerland to ensure deficiencies are tackled and we will thoroughly monitor developments. before concluding, i would like to address the demands raised by some political groups and members to consider adding switzerland to our list of high-risk jurisdictions in the immediate future. at this stage, the commission is of the view that including switzerland in our list of high-risk third countries would be premature. the swiss secrets refer to one swiss bank and concern issues which, in some instances, date back several years. we have a constructive dialogue with switzerland, and recent reforms appear to deal with shortcomings related to customer due diligence procedures in the swiss framework. according to our rules, the eu listing cannot occur before the dialogue with the relevant third country has been exhausted. we have ongoing engagement with switzerland and we must ensure that this dialogue with our swiss counterparts yields positive results and ultimately addresses our concerns regarding the swiss anti-money laundering and countering of terrorism framework. but i really want to assure this house this evening that we will carefully monitor switzerland’s progress. should this progress be insufficient, or current engagement be broken, we do not rule out taking further action. and, of course, the commission will keep the european parliament fully informed on all developments.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, scandals such as the 'panama papers', 'paradise papers' and 'pandora papers' prove that money laundering continues to be a serious problem in europe. to this long series of revelations we must add the so-called "swiss secrets" that have shed light on the shady business practices of the major swiss bank "credit suisse". this is not just the largest data breach ever from a major swiss bank, but a scandal worth nearly 100 billion euros, involving more than 30,000 customers of the financial institution. dozens of prominent government officials and businessmen from over 120 jurisdictions, mostly outside the european union, are involved. against this backdrop, the country's bankers association announced that swiss bank accounts hold between $160 billion and $213 billion belonging to russian clients. experts say the actual amount of funds is many times greater than what was announced. the revelations have also taken on new meaning in the context of the military aggression against ukraine and the sanctions that the european union is imposing on russia. the commission notes that the swiss banks have a strong relationship with other european banks, so that the identified anti-money laundering deficiencies should not be seen as isolated cases but as a problem for the entire european financial sector. the need for a detailed and objective risk assessment is obvious. otherwise, in the absence of effective supervision, any deviation from the rules could open a breach in the security of the financial system of the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner, for long have we heard that the swiss banking sector has changed, that the banking sectors giving a possibility for criminals to launder money is a lazy and outdated stereotype. the swiss leaks have shown that the government was telling us lies, or at least not the whole truth. nothing – or not much – has changed. the due diligence made by credit suisse was virtually non-existent, enabling criminals, people covered by eu sanctions or linked to dictators to use their services. well i hope i’m wrong, but maybe switzerland will be included one day in our blacklist of countries having strategic deficiencies in their regime on anti-money-laundering legislation. now, with the eu putting sanctions on russian oligarchs with such weak due diligence, how do we know that they do not live their life to the fullest with the money on their swiss accounts? let us not fool ourselves that everything has changed. switzerland, unfortunately, is not helping us enough in our fight against tax fraud and money laundering.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you to the colleagues for this debate. i think we should acknowledge that suisse secrets are no longer secrets because of the work of investigative journalists, and we should be grateful that there are investigative journalists and that we have press freedom. i mentioned in my opening remarks that we’re very committed to maintaining a tough approach in the fight against money laundering, both inside europe and with third countries. i mentioned also that we are not resiling from watching whether progress is made or indeed if progress stalls, and we will take further measures if that is required. i want to thank you for mentioning europe’s own anti-money laundering efforts. we’ve had five iterations of the anti-money laundering (aml) directive, and it’s not enough because some member states haven’t fully implemented. and indeed we know that we need to go further. so i hope that we can work together on this package, which is a strong package that has to tidy up the more-than-loose ends in our current legislation. but we do need to work hard and we need to work fast, and indeed the french presidency are showing great leadership. i think the other point which has really come into sharp focus is the aggression by russia in ukraine and our sanctions. we now realise how much vulgar wealth there is in the hands of very few, globally. and i think that that visibility is really repulsive to our citizens. we are freezing assets, but we do have a task force in the commission and its title is freeze and seize. and i know member states will be looking at the second part of that with their own legislation, and i do believe this is a moment we should not allow to pass by without making a firm commitment that the financial system has got to be cleaned up both inside the european union and outside.
president of the council. mr president, madam commissioner, i will be extremely brief, first of all to thank you again for organising this debate and for your vigilance on this matter, which, as we have said, above all requires a strengthening of our legislation. i repeat, the european commission proposed texts a few months ago, last summer, for the sixth package. the french presidency is very much committed to making as rapid progress as possible on these texts during this six-month period, in conjunction, of course, with the european parliament. i would also like to reiterate that we will probably have to be more vigilant in relation to third countries in the current context and that we are relying on the european commission to assess the facts and draw the consequences for our swiss partners. i share the view expressed by commissioner mcguinness at the beginning of our debate, and i believe that we are not at a point where we should draw general conclusions about switzerland. so we will discuss and debate - without any complacency i think, neither in the european parliament nor in the council, be assured - any proposal that the commission might make in the light of the facts that will be established. once again, we have absolute confidence in the commission on this matter. thank you, commissioner, for carrying it very strongly in the last few months and for the future.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – there are still weaknesses in the eu anti-money laundering framework. while scandals have already forced many reforms, over-reliance on them to stimulate reforms unduly politicises aml initiatives. threats posed by third countries, especially those with such close ties to the eu as switzerland, endanger the integrity of the eu’s financial system as a whole. as aml practices are increasingly toughened inside the eu, interested parties seek to circumvent the system using third country channels. switzerland could be placed on the blacklist of ‘countries at risk’ for money laundering, in the hope of triggering changes in the country’s anti-money laundering mechanisms and deeper reforms. a few years ago, the commission placed tunisia on it, just when the country needed economic support from the eu, in order to push forward difficult democratic reforms. however, such blacklisting decisions are in reality highly political. one alternative solution proposed is that non-eu legal persons with an eu connection must register their beneficial owners in eu registers of beneficial owners. these registers would comply with harmonised rules at european level to present information in real time. while there may be merits to blacklisting, with much more cumbersome control procedures for transactions, truly effective solutions should be more proactive and objective in nature.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs markéta gregorová, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on macro-financial assistance to the republic of moldova (com (2022) 0004 c9-0007/2022 2021/0438 cod)) (a9-0043/2022). i would point out that you can use your voting machine to request spontaneous messages and insert blue cards after you have inserted your voting card. i would therefore ask you to bring your voting card with you at all times. instructions are available in the chamber. if you wish to register for a spontaneous debate, i would ask you to do so now and not wait until the end of the debate. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. this does not apply to spontaneous speeches, blue cards and statements on the rules of procedure. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time. i would ask you again, since we are having problems with the microphone system today, to try not to touch the microphone, otherwise it will be very uncomfortable, especially for the interpreters.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am pleased to be here tonight for the finalisation of the proposal of macro—financial assistance to moldova. i would like to thank the parliament and in particular the members of the international trade committee, as well as ms gregorová, the rapporteur for this file, for your support and cooperation. we do have a common responsibility towards moldova in these very difficult times and are ready to do what is needed. the commission has proposed, as the rapporteur just said, a new operation of eur 150 million, consisting of eur 120 million in medium—term loans and a eur 30 million grant component. this is to be disbursed in three tranches over two and a half years, with commonly agreed policy conditions attached to each disbursement. given the urgency, we will do our best to frontload the first tranche. the request for a new mfa by moldova was made in november amid a difficult situation, including the post—pandemic recovery and the gas crisis. now, due to the war in ukraine and its immediate impact on moldova’s economy, this assistance has become more urgent. we know that moldova, the poorest country in europe, continues to struggle with multiple crises at the same time, including the spillover effects of the russian invasion of ukraine via the high influx of refugees: 368 000 went to moldova and around 100 000 are remaining there. let me recall that also both the imf and world bank are looking into increasing their support to moldova in light of the effects of the war in ukraine on the country’s economy. this mfa should also build upon the progress made under previous macro—financial assistance, for example, the covid—19 mfa. it will also provide for a further push in some key reform areas, such as good governance, the fight against systemic corruption, the rule of law and energy sector reforms. moreover, this mfa will also build on the window of opportunity that we currently see in moldova, whereby all branches of the administration, including the president, the government and the parliament are aligned on a common and ambitious reform agenda. the moldovan authorities have recently requested an increase of the mfa amount. in response to this, the commission is working on a comprehensive support package where the request for more grant assistance can be accommodated as soon as possible, as moldova faces direct humanitarian economic consequences of the war. we expect that the first mfa tranche could be disbursed in early summer and such support is warranted in view of the magnitude of the challenges that moldova is facing.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the republic of moldova is the european country that has received the biggest number of refugees from ukraine compared to its population – bigger than any eu member state. people in moldova have opened their houses, and authorities in the republic of moldova have done all the necessary in order to provide for people coming from ukraine in need of support. the republic of moldova has acted in a european spirit. it has defended european values, and we are all seeing right now how important and how relevant the republic of moldova is for the whole european union. we can only live in safety, security and stability within the borders of the 27 member states of the union, if we are surrounded by countries which are safe and stable, and the republic of moldova is an immediate neighbour to us. a safe moldova and a stable moldova is in the fundamental interest of the european union. and i would also argue that the republic of moldova is as relevant as ukraine is for the security of the european union. and so, dear colleagues, let us adopt this macrofinancial assistance in the plenary tomorrow with a large majority. and commissioner, as soon as you put forward proposals for additional support, we will also do all we can in parliament to adopt them quickly to support you, because aside from the support that moldova is offering now during this crisis, we are witnessing a pro-european government, a pro-european president, ready to embark on closer cooperation with the european union, ready to reform the country. and if they are ready to get closer to the union, we should support them. because imagine if, in addition to the pro-russian dictator lukashenko in belarus, there were a pro-russian president in moldova. we should avoid that. we should support moldova’s european path.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the discussion on the assistance programme to the republic of moldova is very timely. over 500 000 refugees have entered the country, which does not list as affluent in any development ranking. this did not stop the people of moldova in providing help and shelter to the victims of war. in the same vein, the european union should provide macro-financial assistance to the country. grants and loans should be disbursed in accordance with the accepted international monetary fund (imf) programme. this, of course, is only one of the many assistance programmes the eu will, is and should be providing to safeguard the stability of moldova and help to tackle the current energy crisis, post-pandemic economic recovery and the negative effects of the unfolding security crisis. we should not forget our commitments, which stem from the association agreement and the dcfta, and be mindful of moldova’s efforts to modernise the economy and their european aspirations. moldova needs our friendship and help more than ever. the eu has to be its true friend in need.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. 150 million euros, including 30 million in grants, is a significant amount, but it is a drop in the bucket. and i want to say that in the face of what siegfried mureşan has emphasized, this enormous openness of the moldovan society, which has actually accepted the most refugees per capita, more even than the polish society, although we have accepted 2.5 million, this aid is too small. we need to increase our spending and our activity. the european expectations of moldova require our constant work, a permanent support group in the european commission, a presence on the ground - i am thinking of the mission of the european parliament. these are our tasks that we are obliged to do in the face of this test that the moldovan society has passed today. yes, the moldovan people are already in europe, they are already with us and they are providing this first aid, even though they are poor and do not have enough resources. and our job is to help him.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the european public prosecutor's office was launched and the european anti-fraud office was reformed. it didn't help much. the risk of fraud has increased during the pandemic due to simplified procedures that could have resulted in less competitive public procurement and direct awards. there was also a heightened risk of conflicts of interest and corruption. the increasing presence of oligarchic structures in the european union in recent years creates a risk of abuse and conflict of interest. in some member states, members of national governments and other persons in political positions are part of an oligarchy and use european union funds for their own financial gain through criminal practices, often linked to corruption. never have such accusations been made against my country, against poland. proper financial management of the european union is necessary. we support all efforts to do so.
madam president, the health crisis and the war in ukraine show that the european union, which for 40 years has promised to protect us, has once again betrayed us and weakened us considerably. in the name of globalism and free competition, you have sold off all our strategic businesses: the medical sector, as we saw during the pandemic, but also the energy, military and digital sectors. your ideology has supplanted pragmatism and today it is the people of europe who will suffer the terrible damage of bad choices, particularly in terms of purchasing power. nuclear energy is the greenest, cheapest and most self-sustaining energy available. the systematic sabotage of the eu energy market, including the attempts to dismantle edf, is a strategic, economic and political suicide. by your choices, you have made us dependent on the rest of the world in every way. it is time for this federal europe to give way to a great europe of nations, capable of protecting our sovereignty and cooperating on major projects - ariane and airbus being two examples. marine le pen will come here in a few days to change course, put an end to this ridicule and finally defend the people of europe.
madam president, please! we are accelerating the energy transition to deprive putin's war machine of the union's money for any fuel. i support the ambitious goal of cutting gas imports by two-thirds this year, and maybe we can do more. we need to diversify our supply and finance investments like lpg terminals, collectors. the commission should do everything it can to address this. but before the next winter, the most important thing is to introduce the obligation to provide storage. as head of parliament's negotiating team on this issue, i can say that we are determined to meet this condition legislatively within a few months. the willingness of countries to buy gas together is important. i proposed this in parliament in 2010 with jacques delors, and he is very pleased that the member states are finally coming to terms with it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon by history to make a great leap in the quality of our energy policy in order to build the energy union that was already envisaged. and we must do so by means of extraordinary measures and without taboos, as the commissioner has said. i'll start with the first of the operations, the storage one. i'm all for the idea of common storage, but i'm asking for more. we must also think about strategic stocks so that we have a reserve that is the real guarantee of our security. we see the commission's willingness to make joint purchases, but i ask that this willingness to coordinate becomes a much more effective, much stronger action. we have done that with vaccines, and we have to do that now, right now, with whoever is there, with the countries that are willing to do that coordination. and then, as my colleague nica has already said, we must address the mechanism of price formation if we do not want our economy to be thrown into disarray, our businesses to be brought to their knees and our european families to be in extreme difficulty. and we have to do that by eliminating the over-financialization that's in there and by touching, adjusting, not being afraid to touch the market. because if we don't touch this sectoral market, our entire economy is going to go down. so courage and foresight from the council and the commission, parliament is ready.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, and mr vice-president of the commission, i should like to make three brief comments. the first is that we have an emergency to deal with: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the cost of energy, which threatens to put our production systems and our households out of business, and we must prepare for the coming winter. we therefore support the commission's proposal which includes measures for national price intervention, adequate gas storage by next november and joint purchases. the second consideration is that it is clear that the transition must be accelerated as much as possible, but to do this we must abandon ideological approaches and then embark on the major processes of renewable energy and energy efficiency infrastructure on the one hand and on the other hand ensure the diversification of the supply of the fossil fuels we still need. finally, the third consideration: in recent years, we have chosen the green deal as an environmental goal, that's true. but the ukrainian crisis shows us that the green transition is also urgently needed to guarantee europe's strategic autonomy and thus, in effect, our freedom and sovereignty. the path we have chosen is the right one and we will continue to support it from here.
madam president! the european commission is talking about becoming independent of russian gas as soon as possible, and this seems to be the right direction. however, i am concerned by the commission's proposal in the latest gas package to exclude the possibility of continuing to apply tariff reductions to transmission tariffs at lng exit points while proposing the possibility of granting discounts on entries from installations producing and storing renewable and low-carbon gases. lng terminals are a strategic infrastructure for energy security and diversification of supply sources, as proven by the current russian aggression. it is essential to balance climate objectives with current challenges. the key task should be to promote diversification and own sources, not discriminating between different energy sources. that should be the most important task for us today to achieve our energy goals.
madam president, relaxing state aid, setting price ceilings or thinking of a tax on profits that have fallen from the sky, which could bring in some 200 billion euros this year alone, are steps in the right direction. but the commission's proposals fail in the main: energy is still treated as a commodity and not as a duty, and its price is still fixed on the stock exchange. it also does not intervene in a price-setting mechanism. defending energy profits, which in the first half of 2021 alone were over 4 billion, remains more important to the commission than defending people. we need an energy system that is socially and environmentally fair, that promotes energy independence and sovereignty and that stops failing those who need it most. the commission's call for people to turn off their heating earlier is offensive and shows a profound lack of awareness of the difficulties and sacrifices they are experiencing. energy poverty exists because policy has failed. if there is political will, we can get to the point.
madam president, vice-president dombrovskis, it is common knowledge that we are in the midst of a storm and our citizens are looking to brussels. it is therefore essential that we take measures in the short and medium term to achieve this. the commission's proposals for common gas orders, common lng storage procedures and high stocks, reaching 90% of full capacity next winter, demonstrate that here in the european union we have learned the lessons of the pandemic and are making use of them. however, energy prices are soaring and that is why we need immediate, urgent measures. the regulation of gas and electricity prices in the member states and the taxation of the profits of energy companies are unfortunately not enough. we need a limited-time intervention in the wholesale gas market. the proposal of the greek prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis is on the table. to have a free market that works we must ensure that our citizens are not impoverished by the crisis. to continue to defend our values with heavy sanctions against russia, we must maintain the cohesion of our societies, push prices now, accelerate the deployment of renewable sources, go deep into building upgrades, sustainable transport. we must make investments, but first of all we must protect our citizens from the storm.
madam president, let me start with a statement we all know is true but the implication of which we tend to go around. there will be no quick and easy fixes. for an undefinable time we will have an unstable and unreliable russia on our borders. and the implications are huge, and we seem to be slightly unwilling to understand this. from the very first day, i said that we need to have two windows: one for speeding up the transition to a low carbon economy, the other to find bridging solutions for the next three, five, seven years. so far, we seem to be united, but as soon as we go into the concrete proposals, everybody seems to bring in his or her ‘holy cow’: lng is not good; we need gas; renewables are good as long as they don’t come from bio sources or forests; or then we speak about prices, and so on. but the truth is the following: every cubic metre of russian gas, every barrel of russian oil, every load of russian coal is dripping with blood – innocent ukrainian blood.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. well, you could cut off gas, putin's gas money in three minutes and put it on atom and coal, which we have a lot of. but you don't want to do it for one simple reason. first, you'd have to admit to an ideological error. and what about the co2 emissions in europe during the war, when you couldn't stop the war? but the other reason is that it's just cool to sell gas to others, russian gas full of ukrainian blood. and yet you brazenly claim that you're doing it for the planet. you put ukrainian ribbons on your body to ease your conscience. but you don't want to hold back putin's money. and i know why. you two are still doing some big deals together. just look at the list of companies. i've been looking into these major russian putin projects. arctic lng - shareholders from france, vostok oil - shareholders from the netherlands, amur gas processing plant - shareholders from italy, gas processing plant in ust-luga, gazprom and germany. what's the big deal? how do you guys keep the rule of law, you and putin and russia? you obviously value your own comfort more than the lives of ukrainian children. and these are the european values that you have so often spoken of here in this house. shame on you.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i wanted to say that the fact that we have a gas problem at the moment and dependence on putin is due to the mistake of the european union, because it is known that gas is not only in russia. why this gas was bought by the west from russia is another question and this is a huge mistake for which ukraine is now suffering. we have a situation where on one side we have war, on the other side we have an energy revolution, and this energy revolution in the form of renewable energy has not been accepted by society. different countries are in different situations, some countries need more time to move towards renewable energy, but the european union has not given and is not giving that time. and that's another mistake that's going to make the union unpopular. commissioner dombrovskis, the most important thing today is two words. it's access to different energy sources, which is simply the decentralization of energy supply. on the other hand, energy security there is a need to create a durable legal framework for investment in different energy sources for the european union.
in writing. more than 2 million ukrainian refugees have crossed the polish border. poles have opened their hearts and homes wide to their ukrainian neighbors. what about the european values in the eu that we hear so much about in this house? the masks are off, and you can tell who's who. the stakes are cash and oil, and the price is ukrainian independence and the security of the countries of central and eastern europe. and ukraine is fighting alone for european values and european security. putin attacked ukraine because he got the green light. the commission has repeatedly warned against depending on russian energy supplies. you didn't listen, and now people are dying in the ukraine. you thought the russians would take kiev in three days and it would be over. you'll be a little hypocritical, give a few euros to the refugees and you can go back to business as usual with moscow. this isn't the first time you've been wrong. the eu heads of state or government condemn the barbaric and unjustified aggression against ukraine and call on russia to unconditionally cease hostilities and withdraw all military forces from ukrainian territory. they express their appreciation to the ukrainian people for their courage in defending their country and to ukraine's neighbours, including poland, for showing great solidarity in welcoming ukrainian war refugees. but today, it is not about words, but about urgent and consistent action.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr commissioner, mr minister, i have to go. i think we all know that the war changed everything. it must also change the european union and its energy policy to ensure the european union's energy sovereignty. change it to respect every resource that is available in the european union, including mining. we have to be open to new technologies, global technologies that capture carbon, absorb carbon. all the documents must be centred around new models of diversification, storage, capture, saving and ensuring low energy prices. that's why we need to rethink ets. he's the source of all speculation. the commissioner may have some way of monitoring the ets. the documents show that no one has oversight of the ets. and we want ets 2 to be there, too. i mean, it would affect the tax on fuel for cars and fuel for heating or cooling homes. we really need to learn from this.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. freedom is not cheap, freedom costs, too, and perhaps especially energy freedom, but peace is priceless. and when we have war criminal vladimir putin sitting on a gas pipe like a toad, we must be strong, decisive and speak with one voice. the united europe was founded as an anti-war alliance, the coal and steel community. history has come full circle before our eyes. and this is precisely the moment when the european union must go one step further. a common energy union must be created the essence of solidarity and supporting each other in these difficult times to prevent another world war, but also climate catastrophe. the green transition is necessary because it makes us independent of the fossil fuels we see before us, but until then, let us use our european resources. this is the european ration of the state. no more importing coal, oil and gas from russia. the courage of europe. there may not be another chance like this.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. the care program is extremely important, urgent and necessary. we support care, but today's proposal is not enough. today we need a package of changes that will have a real impact on the ability to quickly help people fleeing war. russia is waging a cruel war against a free ukraine, against humanity. defeating russia economically and helping citizens fleeing this barbarity, the people of ukraine, is one of the biggest migration challenges we face as a european community since world war ii. my country the polish government and citizens for four weeks, since the first day of the war, has been standing with an open heart on the front line of aid and support, financing from its own resources and providing security, social and welfare for more than 2 million war refugees. as of today, almost 100% of the allocations for 2014-2020 have been contracted in poland. the european fund for aid to the most deprived and the asylum, migration and integration fund in poland have also been allocated and used in practice. cohesion policy, as in the response to the covid-19 pandemic, should be an effective and urgent tool to respond to this extraordinary social and economic crisis. given the enormous social and economic challenges we have faced in less than a month, i believe it is necessary to mobilise new and additional resources to enable the countries that have taken in refugees to meet the new challenges. we also ask for an extension of the eligibility period for the 2014-2020 period by one year and for the possibility of applying the flexibility mechanism in programmes to be increased from 10 to 20 per cent, and to allow the implementation of the european social fund support for fead, food and material assistance, and for the fami in the area of refugee assistance, the application of 100% funding in relation to the overall budget of the operational programme for food aid for the years 2022-2023.
in writing. russia's military aggression against ukraine and the ongoing armed conflict have dramatically changed the security situation in europe. as a result of this aggression, the european union, and particularly its eastern regions, is facing a huge influx of people. poland has opened its borders wide to all those fleeing this war. so far, more than 2.4 million refugees have sought refuge in poland alone. that is why it is so important to regulate the issue of helping these people. the care program is incredibly important and necessary. however, its records should make it possible to provide aid to those in need even more quickly. fugitives are arriving every day, and the end of russian aggression in ukraine is unfortunately in sight. unfortunately, the measures declared so far to help refugees are inadequate in relation to real needs. the care initiative only partially meets the requirements of poland. the european fund for aid to the most deprived and the asylum, migration and integration fund in poland have already been allocated and used in practice. we must therefore make sure that the care programme records allow us to provide rapid and real assistance to victims of this war who are seeking help in eu countries. it is also an opportunity to appeal to the entire eu community: only joint and determined action can make a difference against the russian aggressor. we must stand up to this unprecedented aggression and the crimes that are its consequence!
in writing. eu leaders called for the approval as soon as possible of the programme for refugees in europe (care), which will enable member states to provide emergency humanitarian and financial support to people fleeing war. member states have shown solidarity with countries bordering ukraine, including poland, in hosting ukrainian war refugees. as poland, we believe that the funds declared so far to help refugees are inadequate in relation to real needs. the care initiative only partially meets my country's requirements. it is important that the other eu countries step up their assistance to ukraine, which is struggling with an invader and needs political, financial, humanitarian and defence support from the aggressor. in view of the shelling of civilian objects, attacks on civilians in humanitarian corridors, and the intensification of hostilities in the vicinity of nuclear power plants, poland has presented a comprehensive package of restrictive measures. we want him admitted as soon as possible. the need for decisive and effective action that will be so severe for russia that it will stop its aggression against ukraine.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the concern and concern for the climate, for the clean air we all breathe, and for the protection of the biodiversity of our planet is something that unites us all in this room. i don't think there's any division here. however, we should not forget that climate protection and related activities must not lead to the deindustrialisation of europe and the loss of competitiveness of european industry. recent events russia's aggression against ukraine have highlighted europe's dependence on russian energy imports. this is therefore a unique moment in which the european union, in order to preserve its energy independence and to ensure the energy security of its citizens, should, along with the development of renewable energy sources (which is of course also not subject to discussion), focus on promoting the technologies and raw materials at its disposal. to create a certain base for the transition period, so that we can guarantee with our raw materials, with the extraction of our raw materials and with the technologies that we have available in europe, to become independent. the ipcc report indicates that massive emissions reductions are needed to avoid further global warming. so the question is: how do we as the european union, how do we as europeans want to convince the big economies of the world that are by far the biggest contributors to co2, like china, brazil, india, to also do something to fight climate change? we only have 7% of the money! ambition alone is not enough. we must be pragmatic, rational and effective.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. on february 24th, a lot of things changed, but on february 24th, the problems of climate change and the need for a just energy transition did not end. the un experts in the ipcc report they analyzed are talking out loud about the red alert, that we are on the verge of a climate catastrophe. and believe me, people feel it and they know it, but they need sensible climate policies and new jobs. they need funding to replace the furnaces and buy solar panels. my silesia is the region that rebuilt warsaw after the war. this is a region that has been exploited economically for decades. we silesian people hear, as do the ukrainians, that we are not here, that our language is not here. we need new green investments in silesia, but also investments in culture and education. the european capital of culture in silesia and zagreb would be a very good boost for the whole region. i am counting on you, mr timmermans, because as a person from limburg, also a post-mining region, you know perfectly well what i am talking about.
madam president, please! thank you so much for this debate. i'm glad to see you here on such an important matter. i want to say that from june 1, 2022, poland will no longer buy any coal from russia, and from january 1, 2023, we will no longer buy a single gram of gas from russia. the european union should therefore follow poland's lead and thus safeguard the interests of the european union by distancing itself from the barbarian putin. renewable energy yes, we support it because we all want to live in a clean environment, we all want to drink clean water, we all want to breathe clean air, and we will measure and support all actions in this direction. but my question is this, mr president: will renewable energy sources, these clean sources, really ensure the energy security of the european union? will we be able to compete with these renewables and the energy system with china and america?
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, just a couple of points in reaction to what the honourable members have said. first of all, i want to report about a meeting i had last week in stockholm with representatives of climate organisations, nature protection organisations, forestry organisations, academia, and for the first time, all of them around the table – and you know how thorny the discussions have been on forestry with sweden and finland – for the first time, everyone around the table said the urgency now is so great that we will all get out of the trenches. and we sat together and we agreed that in the next year we would identify precisely, on a scientific basis, what the problem is and how we can solve the problem. and everyone committed to that. and i say this so clearly in this house because science is not an opinion. someone here said it today. it is not. signs are facts. you know, that the earth is round is not an opinion, and if we can come to an agreement on the scientific facts, then the political choices are channelled and are not just free for all. and i think this example from sweden might be a good example to follow. let’s get out of the trenches. secondly, in reaction to bas eickhout; yes, we need to speed up the energy transition and we will come with our repowereu proposals to make that happen. and i also say we need... because we don’t have our own oil, we have very little of our own gas, we certainly can’t rely on coal anymore for very long, so the only solution to have our own energy is to have renewable energy. if the question is, can we be competitive with renewable energy? if we couldn’t, why then are china and the us investing so massively, massively in renewable energy today? because they know that is where the future is. and i would say, and i say this also to my honourable friend from silesia, łukasz kohut, look, we can only help coal mining regions by offering them a swift and secure transition to a new economy, connecting them. prolonging their connection to coal is just a waste of their time, an attack on their health and a waste of taxpayers’ money. this transition should be done and should be done now. there are so many economic opportunities in this. poland already is the biggest exporter of electric buses in europe. polish citizens massively want to install rooftop solar and they’re doing it at lightning speed, no pun intended. so here i believe that this transition should be also defended as not just the right thing to do because of our climate, but also the right thing to do because of our economy. which brings me to my final point. all of this is moot if it is not embedded in social policy. it will not happen if people have the feeling that they will be left behind. so the ipcc report also forces us to look at the issue of redistribution within and between societies, because that’s the only way people will be part of this transition. that’s the only way we will get the support from the population we need. because even if the facts are clear, as in this ipcc report, that we need to speed up things, if people only worry about the end of the month they will not be bothered with the end of the world. so we need to make sure that everything we do is embedded in social fairness. that’s the only way we can do what the ipcc report says, and that is turn things around.
in writing. the report we are discussing today is yet another warning about the consequences of inaction on man-made climate change. the grave threat to human well-being and the health of our planet does not allow us to waste any more time on the goal of reducing emissions and curbing global warming. cascading impacts caused by extreme natural events further highlight future risks and the interaction between climate, ecosystem and biodiversity protection, access to natural resources, urban patterns, economics, social inequalities, transport systems and energy sources. any delay in the path of green transition towards sustainable and climate-neutral development risks being irreversible damage. we are facing an urgent and complex challenge that must involve all of us, governments, the private sector and civil society, and must be addressed with significant investment and in the name of equity and social justice. every action we take today affects the future viability of all of us and future generations.
in writing. i welcome the contribution of experts to the development of ar6. the report also provides information on the impact of climate change on the global economy, including the impact of climate change on the global economy. up to 3.6 billion people live in environments that are highly vulnerable to climate change, and current types of unsustainable development are increasing the exposure of ecosystems and people to climate risks. one in three people are exposed to deadly heat stress, a billion people living in coastal areas will be exposed to flooding by 2050. the wrong answers to the challenge of tackling climate change can also generate difficult issues of vulnerability, exposure and risks that could be difficult to correct. the climate crisis is inseparable from the biodiversity crisis and the crises caused by the poverty and inequality suffered by billions of people. political commitment, improvement of the institutional framework, adequate financial resources together with continuous monitoring and evaluation of measures selected on the basis of the best available scientific knowledge at the time and put into practice are essential for the adaptation process and achieving climate resilience. in romania, a large-scale effort is needed to develop, operationalize and implement adaptation measures at local level. very few cities, towns and communities have up-to-date adaptation plans.
in writing. the main message of the latest ipcc report is: 'it's now or never'. climate change is happening faster than expected, and without decisive action, the social, environmental, economic and political consequences will be catastrophic and irreversible. to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees celsius or less, we need immediate and deep reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore swift and bold policy decisions. the commission continues to take hard data on the causes of climate change lightly. it is essential that the commission takes immediate action to review the 'fit for 55' target and adopt a new 'fit for 65' climate regulation package. to this end, actions should be implemented that will accelerate not only the green energy transition but also the transition to a sustainable, ethical, plant-based food system. it's important that the changes affect energy, transportation and agriculture. fit for 65 is also about the eu's independence from gas and coal supplies from states that violate human rights and about food independence based on the knowledge of scientists and the demands of climate activists. recently, an open letter on the subject, prepared by green rev institute, democracy action and future food 4 climate, was signed by 66 representatives of civil society organizations and 20 scientists from around the world. they're worth listening to.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we live in a union and, above all, in a world where multinationals have more rights than individuals, citizens and citizens, in tax matters. it's time to get back to that. the taxes paid by our fellow citizens finance public goods and services. multinationals use them and in return they rely on the principle of tax consent. let's end this and restore tax justice. the draft minimum tax rate for multinationals, which is threatened by nationalism, must be concluded as a matter of urgency. the text has been criticised: rates are too low, exemptions too high. i share those criticisms. the europeans must finally be heard on taxation issues. this text, which affects our daily lives, is now in the hands of the finance ministers. so i ask that tomorrow we send a positive signal to taxpayers and citizens: make multinationals pay their fair share of taxes.
president. - we are discussing today the global minimum tax, the so-called pillar two model rules. a noble endeavor, but there are practical objections. at a time when our citizens are being hit hard by rising prices, putting an additional burden on businesses is not the right answer. because who's going to pay the extra corporate taxes? according to an imf study, workers are the most affected by corporate taxes. it explains 45 to 75 percent of their lower wages. important in times of high inflation. in addition, bureaucracy undermines competitiveness. unfortunately, we in the eu are also very good at this. this proposal takes this even further. the proposal means that large companies will have to keep additional accounts. this will particularly appeal to lawyers, jurists, accountants and consultancy firms. the treasury departments will also have to hire new bureaucrats, because these complex rules have to be interpreted. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. finally, it is a world-weird idea that countries which have to raise their taxes will find no other way of giving advantages to multinationals. the global minimum tax is a solution to a problem. most countries already have a way to make sure that everyone pays their taxes properly. it is also questionable whether other countries such as the united states will ever implement them. let us reconsider this proposal, mr president, because it is not going to solve the problems of taxation in a digital and globalised world.
madam president, this directive is a step in the right direction, and it is urgent to have multinational companies contribute at least a little bit. but it is also urgent to stop the unfair competition with local smes that bear the weight of state regulations and taxes. with war instability, inflation and energy prices going through the roof, smes are the weak link of the economy. multinationals and governments have tools to weather this storm and put themselves always first. this leaves smes in no man’s land, often paying the price on fuel stability. for example, the urgent measures of the spanish government to lower oil prices demand that companies pay the government subsidy in advance. easy for the big guys, impossible for the small guys. this directive is good and temptations to water it down must be resisted. but it is ironic that while we approve it, smes that keep our economies healthy, play by the rules and ensure our way of life in times of emergency are left out in the cold.
madam president, tomorrow, the eu ministers of finance can agree on the minimum effective tax rates of 15% for big multinationals. the deal also introduces another tax payment rule to fix tax havens. we are all agreed upon a basis amongst 137 countries. then the commission proposed a reasonable directive. many thought that on this, in the eu, we will stand strong together and nothing is going to stop us now from approving and implementing this ground—breaking rule. but now some countries, including my own, are hesitant to agree to the french presidency proposal. i call upon the eu member states to have an agreement on this document tomorrow. with putin’s war around the corner, as well as difficulties for our economies caused by the conflict and the pandemics, we need unity as well as fair taxation for a sustainable recovery. this directive gives us that.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the green transformation of europe cannot be stopped. the ets is therefore an essential element in supporting the green transition. the ida as a tool of the business must at the same time support change and stabilise the market so that our citizens are not exposed to unpredictable price fluctuations. the ets cannot depend on the free market alone. we know that before the war in ukraine, russia speculatively drove up the price of oil and gas in europe. i'm asking the commission to investigate whether russia, through companies with russian capital, has been manipulating the price of carbon dioxide emission allowances, causing a sharp increase in the price of these allowances a few months ago. we have seen that the autumn increase in the price of allowances has caused a deterioration in the competitiveness of the european economy in all sectors. today we know that the market stability reserve must be able to react more quickly and ensure europe's resilience to extraordinary events.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i want to tell you that economists, businessmen and, above all, europeans, say something quite different from what you say. they say, quite simply, that the ets is opaque, manipulative, subject to all kinds of fluctuations -- meaningless, with the interference of opaque companies. energy prices are high, we don't see any energy security, which is absolutely critical in the context of war, and it's also not really related to decarbonization. i propose that we lean towards capture, absorption, because this is a serious global challenge. the stabilisation market should therefore serve a completely different purpose. i suggest that the commissioner look at the amendments 27, 28, 29 tabled by the ecr and consider that this is why we have this market, that when prices are high, especially when there is such a threat in the world of war - we have war in europe, commissioner - it should serve not to take allowances off the market and raise the prices of the ets even further, but precisely to release these allowances. i think the commissioner feels a sense of responsibility for what's going to happen next week, next month, next year and next decade. this is not the way, first of all, to transparency, to energy security, and it's certainly not the way to climate protection.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commission very much for taking the floor on this extremely important matter. i regret that i cannot say the same to the council representatives who are unfortunately not here today. last year we debated in this house the first ever eu strategy on children's rights, and today there are no words to describe what children are experiencing during the russian aggression against ukraine. it was heartbreaking to see children being treated in the basement of a hospital in kiev. anger and tears filled my eyes when the russians bombed the hospital in mariupol. and in the last few days, the new synonym for putin's war crimes is bucza. mass graves, torture, rape. i'm not sure what you mean. can you find words to describe it? one out of every two children in ukraine has left home to escape the bombs and the cruelty. one in two of the seven and a half million children in the world are not sleeping in their beds, not going to their schools, not playing with their toys. some of them were separated from their fathers, their mothers, their friends. today in the debate, and on thursday in the resolution, we will be emphasizing the importance of providing care and protection, a roof over our heads, access to education, health care, ensuring family reunification. how important it is that we provide ukrainian children and young people with everything that they have been deprived of by the brutal russian aggression. we must be especially alert to the dangers that lurk in the minds of children who have no one to protect them. unaccompanied children, children separated from their families or children from orphanages. let's not be naive! among the tens of thousands of wonderful, good, helping people will be those who will want to exploit this war and its victims in the most vile way. this is why it is so important to establish an effective system of registering the most vulnerable children. how can we help, support and protect children who we don't know where they are or who is looking after them?! and there's no margin for error in this! whatever we do today, we need to do more. we must be prepared for a marathon of aid, because the ukrainians are entrusting us today with their greatest good and hope for the future. their children and youth. another generation. it is our responsibility to ensure that these children, who are fleeing war today, return to their homelands safe and sound, and that they are certain that europe is also their home and that solidarity, respect for the law and respect for other people are values worth defending. always and before any, even the most barbaric aggression.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we've been expecting trouble from russia for years, warning of it. we appealed for security for our part of europe. we were told, a few days before the war, as commissioner borrell had said, that the union was not dealing with security issues, or we were told: if you want more security, involve russia even more. will we say the same to the children of mariupol today? poland has taken in over two and a half million refugees, including about a million children. what do they need? what they need is peace. more efforts by the european union, perhaps by the french presidency, as the chairman of metsola has shown. we need a register of these children in cooperation with the ukrainians and the authorities - a register of those who have crossed the border, but also of those who remain in ukraine and are at risk of deportation. as a teacher, i'm going to focus on educational issues. european funds are needed to transport and safely evacuate these children, to teach them the basics of the language, to create new hybrid textbooks linking ukrainian and host countries' programs, which are ideologically neutral. we need psychologists for integration and cultural adaptation, libraries, cultural heritage centres, scholarship programmes, but also programmes for the care of the youngest, so that their mothers can look after them and work.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the russian invasion of ukraine not only puts this country and its people at immediate risk, but also threatens the future of a generation. almost half of the refugees fleeing ukraine are of school age. that's why we need to provide young people with access to education so that they have a chance for the future no matter where they are. we must remember that children fleeing ukraine are vulnerable. it is therefore crucial to ensure that teachers and trainers are adequately prepared to work with refugee and traumatised children. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. let's make sure that ukrainian children and youth continue their education. in this context, the european commission's initiative to expand the school education gateway, where educational materials from ukraine and the member states can be accessed in the language of instruction, is particularly important. we also have to remember about ukrainian students, who are the future of this nation. i am glad that many member states have decided to make special funds available for scholarships for them, but a common european initiative is needed in this regard. it is also necessary to recognise diplomas, qualifications and periods of study, especially for teachers and health workers. they are essential for the smooth integration of children and young people fleeing ukraine into their new environment. i would also like to highlight the role of sport in the integration process of refugees, especially children and young people. member states must ensure that children and young people have access to sporting activities. it's the sport that can give them a break, help them feel better, help them overcome their trauma. it will also allow them to adapt better to their new environment and to build links in the countries that host them. it is our shared responsibility to ensure that these children and young ukrainians feel safe and have a chance at a better future, including in the host countries.
mr president, a crying and exhausted little boy is walking by himself with just one plastic bag in his hands, towards the border with poland. tired mothers carrying their children in one arm and just a couple of belongings in the other, only what they had time to pack, crossing the border with slovakia there are now already 4 million of them. four million ukrainians have crossed the borders because their country is being brutally attacked by russia. russian soldiers kill innocent people in the streets, rape girls and women and torture children. but unfortunately, danger still awaits across the border, especially for women and children. they arrive to camps cramped with thousands of people. suddenly, a car or a bus appears and somebody offers to take them to a safer place. or so they say. we have a lot of disturbing information that women have been taken away, drugged and forced into prostitution, and that there are ukrainian children being trafficked and exploited. we need to do everything we can to protect them. effective registration, border management, are vital, to secure the safety of young and vulnerable ukrainians. all this could be facilitated by having frontex on the ground to help local officials deal with the immigration wave and provide safe transport of refugees further to other european countries. the european union can and should do more to provide help in this area, to give support to the countries dealing with huge numbers of refugees.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not know about you, but as a father of five children, i have tears in my eyes every day when i see the images of the terrible war, the war for which vladimir putin is responsible and which he personally ordered and ordered. these are the images of fallen soldiers of ukraine, these are the images of grieving parents, these are the images of destroyed tanks and planes, but they are also the images of destroyed houses, hospitals, cultural institutions, monuments. it is the images - and many colleagues have already spoken about this - of innocent and suffering people whose everything is being destroyed and taken away. we all - and i personally - lack the words to express my shock, my grief and my despair. and the images we have seen in the last few days from bucha - i think we all feared that it would look like this, but we are horrified that it really is. and as the father of five children, i also know that it is our duty to take action, despite or because of this suffering, and to take on even greater responsibility. we must really help the ukrainians effectively to defend themselves against this war of aggression and to protect the people from aggression. we must not only impose sanctions, but we must actually implement them in our member states and in our cities and towns. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we must help refugees - many colleagues have responded to this. but i also wish that we could think beyond the day now. my grandmother was a refugee from the sudetenland after world war ii. and she always talked about her home. and that's why it's important that we help ukraine win this war, and that we then take responsibility together to help ukraine rebuild as well, so that as many people as possible can go back to their homeland as soon as possible and try to rebuild as much of what's being destroyed these days as possible.
mr president, commissioner johansson, since 24 february, when the world - and the european union, of course - was shocked by the brutality of the aggression perpetrated by putin and his regime against ukraine and its people, we have witnessed a change of era, a zeitenwende. four million displaced persons for the first time since the second world war on european soil have entered the european union, the vast majority of whom, as we know, are women and children in a state of extreme vulnerability. it is therefore essential that this parliament adopts this resolution, which not only supports but demands from the commission and the french presidency a coordinated response which, first of all, ensures the registration and identification of all persons and establishes as an absolute priority the whereabouts of all those missing children awaited in some corner of the european union where they have not arrived. secondly, it calls on the commission to put a stop to this state of over-reliance on non-governmental organisations and on the voluntary or spontaneous volunteering of citizens and to establish a coordinated plan for the safe transport of these people to the place where they can be welcomed in a spirit of solidarity in all the member states of the european union. it is also important that we ensure adequate funding with all the instruments at our disposal, not only the european asylum and migration fund, but also the european social fund, react-eu, and all the instruments available to enable us to support the member states financially in this effort to give a dignified welcome to so many vulnerable women and children, which will not be dissolved overnight, but will last, because that is precisely the consequence of the temporary protection directive. but it is absolutely essential, without any doubt, to protect these women and children from the risk of human trafficking, trafficking and prostitution by providing them with adequate information. because that is what the european strategy on the protection of the rights of the child, the european strategy against prostitution and the commission's mandate against all forms of trafficking and exploitation of persons are all about. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure)
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to ask mr lópez aguilar, the president, about his comments and concern, for which i thank him, but i would like to say that the children are registered in poland. they have a right to education first and foremost, and they are already participating in education. the ones that were reported by the parents are already in school. also, some 1 222 children are in polish hospitals. it's all happening now. and just that right now we're doing it with the resources of the polish people, the polish budget, the polish government. is it true that you wrote a letter to take away from the polish government and the polish state the means that are so much needed today? and will you, mr lópez aguilar, simply withdraw from this letter of appeal to the european commission? we all need resources today to support refugees in particular. and i hope that happens.
mr president, my colleagues and i in the intergroup for defence of children’s rights we have been many years denouncing what is going on with the children escaping from wars in syria, in iraq and afghanistan. and now is the question of ukraine. and i have to tell you ... – los niños y los jóvenes son siempre los que pagan el precio más alto en las guerras. aquellos que tienen la suerte de escapar y sobrevivir quedan con traumas indescriptibles que cambian sus vidas para siempre. otros son víctimas de aún más terror: caen en manos de mafias que se aprovechan de su vulnerabilidad, monstruos disfrazados de voluntarios que secuestran a niños para explotarlos, obligándolos a la explotación sexual, el trabajo esclavo o incluso el tráfico de órganos. hay toda una generación de niños en riesgo aquí. debemos construir un sistema robusto y coordinado en la frontera con la presencia de oficiales de protección de la niñez. debemos ayudar a los países vecinos para que los niños estén matriculados en las escuelas y no se les roben sus años formativos, tan importantes en su educación. debemos rescatar a los niños ucranianos vulnerables, en particular los que se encuentran en instituciones de acogida, los niños en hogares de guarda, los niños en hospitales, los niños con discapacidades, los huérfanos de guerra y los niños no acompañados, que en estos momentos, a miles y miles, están en las fronteras de países nuestros europeos. colegas, frente a la barbarie que vivimos en bucha, frente a la pura maldad y paranoia, debemos defender nuestros valores europeos. y una cosa que nos tiene que quedar muy clara: los hijos de ucrania son nuestros hijos, su futuro es nuestro futuro y ha llegado el momento de actuar.
mr. chairman, i'm not sure i understand. my colleagues have already given all the necessary figures on the subject under discussion. i would just like to emphasise that the member states have a major role to play here, as do some european programmes, including erasmus, which will also have to restructure certain items. the point is that erasmus can be of great help, not only to refugees coming to europe, but to all young people and children who are displaced persons also within ukraine. i would like to stress that the key task for all of us is the integration of these young people into normal life. it's vital to their survival. we have good education systems in europe that can help a lot. i would like to give just a few examples from the republic of slovenia, where primary school children and adolescents have already spoken or uttered a few words in slovenian for the second day. and i believe that's the same in other settings where young people come. so erasmus needs to be extended, its operation, not only within the european union, but also within ukraine, and i think we have many more obligations there, more difficult tasks than within the european union. thank you so much for your attention.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the citizens of my country, romania, but also the citizens of poland, the republic of moldova, slovakia, the czech republic and the other countries that have taken in these refugees. we're discussing a very important issue. we also debated it last night in the libe and deve committees. commissioner, i couldn't ask you the question last night, but i'll ask you now. of course, children are the future of every nation and we must protect them regardless of their nationality. i heard here that only ukrainian children. i'm not sure. we need to have a balanced and not double standard behavior for children in afghanistan, in africa, in syria, wherever they are. children are the future of nations. that's why i think we should protect them all and not make any distinction based on nationality. another thing i have to say to you, commissioner, is that, as you have also said to our committee, the states which are now under the greatest pressure have their own problems and you have to intervene with the appropriate budget. my country has children in poverty, my own children in poverty, and of course we have to take in these children who come from ukraine, but it's unfair that we can't provide them with conditions. and i think that, in addition to organization, in addition to platforms, solidarity must be supported with budgets. and i want to ask you, commissioner, because i have also been present at the debate today and i did not see that a third option would be put into question, namely to stop, to stop the fire, to stop this horrible death of thousands of citizens. sure, sanctions for russia and aid for refugees. the diplomatic route, commissioner, are you still using it? the european institutions, along with the united states, the un, nato have a historic responsibility to do the best diplomacy to stop the fire and stop this misery that is not only for ukraine. you know, my fellow citizens are asking me, what's going on? when will the war end? the danger is for enlargement and that is why i think you must also go through the diplomatic route and give us an answer, to know how to respond to our citizens.
mr president, it’s difficult to add something new at the end of a debate, but i want to add my voice of shock at the evidence of war crimes that we’ve seen over the weekend, and that had been very articulately expressed by so many colleagues. i want to raise one issue, which is the criticism of the international committee of the red cross (icrc), which is triggered by the decision by peter moore to visit sergei lavrov in moscow ten days ago, and photographs that emerged of mr moore seemingly smiling with mr lavrov, and the decision to open an office in rostov just across the russian border. and we had an engagement with the members of the rada inna sovsun and halyna yanchenko. and their criticism of the icrc was palpable and very understandable, because clearly russia has carried out breaches, systematically, of international humanitarian law, whether it is collective punishment, whether it is summary executions, as we saw in bucha, whether it is the targeting of civilian infrastructure. so that criticism is very, very understandable. nevertheless, it is clear that the icrc are mandated very clearly by the geneva convention and its first protocol to observe the humanitarian principles, which means impartiality, independence, neutrality and humanity. and that is a very difficult thing for the icrc to do, and it’s very difficult for members of the rada to accept. so my recommendations are twofold: first of all, that the icrc should be a lot more sensitive in the circumstances where there is clearly an asymmetric approach to respect for international humanitarian law, where the russian side have been so systematically in breach. and i recommend that dg echo would, if possible, open a dialogue between the leadership of the ukrainian rada and the icrc, on the other hand, in order to find a way for mutual understanding.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. it's a very good debate, thank you very much for it, and a very important resolution. but i think we should prepare - and i am proposing to do so - the next resolution that will speak directly about the need to immediately and quickly investigate the russian barbarians who are killing children in ukraine. we have europol, we have eurojust, we have the european criminal court in the hague and we have the prosecutor's office in ukraine. these institutions should work together now, immediately, to catch the russian bandits who are murdering innocent children and innocent ukrainian mothers with impunity in various places. i think that such a resolution should be passed by acclamation. and the criminal court in the hague, which in 20 years of operation has issued only three judgments so far, i emphasize three judgments, should not have mercy on these torturers, because there is so much evidence that russian barbarians murder innocent children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during my speech - one minute, two minutes to be honest - many children still in ukraine will continue to become internally displaced persons or refugees, children who are forced to flee their homes. children, traumatised and vulnerable children, in particular those from institutions, foster care, children in hospitals, children with disabilities, war orphans, unaccompanied minors, who are at risk of ending up in criminal networks of trafficking or victims of abuse. i am well aware of your commitment to the protection of children, but i would like to stress, as the first signatory of the european parliament's resolution on the protection of children and young people fleeing the war in ukraine - a resolution which was strongly supported by the intergroup on the rights of the child, of which i am co-chair - that we must intensify our efforts to protect the most vulnerable. humanitarian corridors, adequate reception services, health care and psychological support, appointment of guardians for unaccompanied minors, support for ngos working in the area, safe mechanisms for the relocation of minors and their families between member states, access for children and young people to education systems: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children. children, the first victims of an absurd war.
mr. chairman, please! thank you, commissioner! as long as putin is receiving petrodollars, ukrainian children and women will not be safe. let's be clear here that no discussion is going to stop putin unless there is very concrete action. i absolutely agree with what mr rzońca said, that at the moment only the trial of criminals is such an element. putin can't be safe in what he's doing. poland already polish prosecutors are collecting testimonies from war victims, especially from children. they are maimed, maimed by putin and his gang from the most important thing, which is childhood. they don't have a dowry for adult life anymore. and that's why i want to say that in my country right now, 1,222 children are in hospitals. we brought a lot of handicapped kids. kids you couldn't stand to put in a shelter. they're safe today, they're in poland for rehabilitation. we're also helping out in ukraine itself. i was just in lviv and the surrounding area this weekend, and there's help being sent there. and the children ask one thing: they ask you to take down putin, and they thank you all for your help, everyone, and poland, and all other countries. thank you for dropping this one, too. let's give thanks to these communities. and one last thing, mr. chairman. it's very important. for example, a last-minute request from ukrainian doctors: 420 women and children from bucha and irpinia who have been sexually abused are asking for help in evacuation and rehabilitation abroad. they're really needed. we poles from our funds, from our budgets and also from our family budgets - almost every pole today helps - but it is important that we do it together, because without the funds of the european union we will not be able to help very effectively, especially children - victims of war. thank you very much for this discussion and let's condemn putin, let's not allow him to function, let's wipe the tears of children caused by putin.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the war in ukraine shows very clearly that naivety when it comes to energy security brings disaster. it's not the energy sources, it's not the fossil resources that are the problem, it's that the european union, the individual member states, have given the field to putin at their own request. you have got rid of the state, and in this house you have got rid of these decisions, your own resources, you have underestimated the energy security of europe, and putin has been allowed to enter this place. to this day, many lack the courage to tighten sanctions and cut off the european union and european countries from sources coming from russia. it's time for these sanctions to finally be decisive and effective, for us to stop pretending to do something, just to be concrete. this regulation is a compromise and like any compromise it does not meet everyone's expectations, but it is a step in the right direction, because it will make it possible to think that this discussion about energy security, about making europeans safe and getting rid of this dependence on russia, is possible. i hope she's in a hurry. investments such as those made by poland in the supply of lng, the swinoujscie gasport and the baltic pipe pipeline, for example, show that this is a step in the right direction.
mr. speaker, the house of lords! the regulation in question is crucial for the financing of infrastructure projects of major cross-border importance. the budget is, i remind you, 6 billion euros. unfortunately, the regulation no longer provides for the possibility of financing gas projects. in view of the war in ukraine, poland is introducing the fourth pillar of energy sovereignty in its energy policy until 2040, the main objective of which is to rapidly decouple the national economy from imported fossil fuels and derivatives from russia. i believe that investments in critical gas infrastructure supporting the objective of european independence from russian gas should continue to be supported through the creation of alternative instruments for this purpose. i also support the creation of a specific category and financing possibilities for smart gas networks, and in particular possibilities for supporting and upgrading existing natural gas infrastructure networks.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the budget for 2023 should be in line with actual needs. we have to stick to the real issues. we have to deal with quite large and unexpected situations in this budget, namely the war situation in ukraine. the budget must therefore also be flexible and must also take account of the problems of safety, food and, of course, health. and all those who speak of the rule of law, who shout loudly about the rule of law, shout loudly, i wish they shouted as loudly that this budget should reflect humanitarianism. the humanitarianism that poland is presenting at this moment on the international stage and is the object of admiration. but we don't want any praise from you on this matter, because we know that we have to open our homes, we have to open our hearts, we have to take ukrainians, mothers, children from ukraine, under our roof. and we in poland do not create refugee camps. we open our own houses, our own apartments. it is worth noting that there was no mention of the war situation in this budget until march 15. i therefore thank the rapporteur very much for introducing this information on the crisis in ukraine. well, i also want to say that the ecr cannot fully support this whole proposal, because there are calls for the immediate implementation of the rule of law mechanism, that there is a proposal to budget based on gender. these are important matters, but not the most important. and we also don't agree here to just talk about reproductive rights in this budget. the most important thing today is the man, security, humanitarianism. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card)
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i'm not mixing anything. i'm saying it as it is, and i just want to point out that the european treaties dictate what the competences of individual countries are, so the various efforts of some liberal and left-wing politicians to destroy the governments of the united right in different countries are simply useless. they are not in accordance with the treaties. you know very well, mr. ambassador, that treaties determine the powers of the legal systems, and humanitarianism is above any legal system. humanity is humanity. if you put poland on one side, criticizing it for some alleged lack of rule of law, and on the other hand we show that we welcome two and a half million ukrainians - mothers and children - to polish homes, then on the same scale you want to put three weeping judges who allegedly suffered some harm? because 80% of poles believe that the polish legal system needs to be reformed.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to ask the honourable member - in the light of what she has just said about poland - whether she is aware of any cases of fraud against eu funds in poland. i need a specific answer: do you know that any company, any person, any organization has defrauded eu money in poland? please give a specific case.
mr. chairman, please! thank you, senor borrell. i will return to the debate we had at afet and sede. i asked you then what you had done with the document called the global strategy of the european union, which as foreign minister in 2017 together with mrs mogherini we had adopted as a european strategy. the new document you're presenting was published before the russian-ukrainian war. so why was the one rejected and the other accepted? i am confused again when you say that the commission is not concerned with defence. so what is this document and what is it for? why do you need 5,000 troops if you say the commission is not concerned with defence? what is the nature of this document? is this a military document that is supposed to equip the european union with some kind of military instrument? is this just another paper that your successor will throw away next year, like you threw away mrs. mogherini's paper?
yes, i will ask an additional question. mr borrell, what are your suggestions for modification of these documents and mandates after the outbreak of the war, after the aggression? do you suggest more troops, faster deployment of those troops, a bigger mandate to include combat mission? because i think that right now what we need is rather a moral compass – a document which is telling us who not to sell weapons to, on whom to impose sanctions and who and how to assist when attacked by the aggressor.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the hell of women in afghanistan continues. 87 percent of afghan girls and women have experienced intimate partner violence in their lifetime. in 2021, afghanistan was ranked last in the global index on women, peace and security. once again, we have had a debate here in recent months about the status of women. we talked about the hell of women in belarus, poland, afghanistan today. we'll probably talk a lot about the hell of women in ukraine. we can't look the other way any longer. commissioner, the president! the situation of women in afghanistan has not been tragic since yesterday, since last week. decades of war, pandemics, the freezing of aid, drought and poverty, the incompetence of the taliban -- that's the reality of afghanistan today. that's why we can't do business as usual with afghanistan, with this regime. but we have to help these women. we need to get a fund set up to make sure that women who want to get out of this regime have the opportunity to do so. women who want to stand up to this regime will have our support. and that's why today, from this place, we have to say it loud and clear, to show solidarity and to say to all of you, to all of the girls and all of the women of afghanistan: you will never walk alone. we're with you, we're in solidarity.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. on march 23, girls in afghanistan were told that they would not be going to school. these teenage girls' dreams were destroyed by men whose faith had gone mad. the taliban are ruining the lives and futures of children in the name of their fanatical delusions. the boundaries between state, religion and reality have been blurred. it's the way it is with autocrats, no matter how wide the geographical breadth, people don't mean anything to them. and so the right-wing populists think, "the state is us, religion is the state, and education must be in harmony with religion". this is happening in kabul, budapest and warsaw, where zbigniew ziobro is waging a cultural war for the polish soul. autocrats want to rule the masses, not people who think for themselves. we need to put pressure on the afghan taliban on education and support the afghan people. and we cannot allow those who think like the taliban to come to power in our europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a fraction of a second, women in afghanistan have lost rights that were won with 20 years of hard work, rights of every human being in the 21st century, to be able to express themselves, to socialize, to speak freely, to work, to be politically active, to live in a democracy and a state of law, to fight for their family, their aspirations and their dreams. in one night, it was all gone. but there is hope, there is a need for justice and, above all, there is a power to demand justice. we have a moral obligation and a duty to stand by these women in every way. each member state separately and the european union as one fist. the afghan people, and especially the women who are fighting for equality and justice, do not deserve a regime of deprivation of liberty and a flagrant violation of fundamental rights. it is up to all of us to support their legitimate demands for democracy in practice, while respecting european principles and the code of values we have been following for six decades.
madam president, the situation in afghanistan is incredibly frightening for women. the killing, the torture, the utterly inhuman treatment, the discrimination, the segregation. i join in the call of all my colleagues and also the horror they described in their speeches. and i have to say, i was also ashamed in this room after hearing from one of my colleagues in the id faction that this behavior belongs to the cultural environment of afghanistan and that we should tolerate it. i think that's a shameful statement, that it completely denies the basic human rights that we should all respect. and these basic human rights, as expressed in the un charter, are binding on afghanistan, too. it is not possible for women to suffer and not be respected as free beings with their rights guaranteed. i'm really deeply ashamed.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you for this debate and thank you for your engagement on afghanistan and in particular, for putting the spotlight on the situation of afghan women and girls. the european union remains committed to supporting the people of afghanistan, as was evident at the pledging event last week, where a total of almost eur 2.2 billion was pledged, of which eur 560 million from the eu and its member states. i want to be very clear that the eu does not recognise the taliban government and provides its support outside government channels. i think it’s really important to remember that we don’t work with the government. we will continue to facilitate women’s active and meaningful participation in the dialogue on the future of afghanistan, and we will not accept that girls do not have access to quality education. international support should follow the human rights approach, ensuring equal opportunities for both boys and girls at all levels of education. our reflections on future support will be based on these ideas. the commitment from the european parliament in this regard is highly appreciated and necessary, so thank you for this excellent discussion.
i have received six motions for resolutions* tabled in accordance with rule 132(2)/136(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. _______________* see minutes. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the good souls who advocated an inclusive taliban government will be at their expense. after a few concessions, the natural is back at full speed: from the recent ban on girls going to school to the one on air travel without a male guardian. how can that be surprising, when everyone has bowed to the taliban's wishes? i want to see the agreement signed with some aid agencies, which restricts the participation of women in their missions. the commission, which claims to quadruple its humanitarian aid, seems almost to endorse this unequal treatment. moreover, much to the chagrin of the official media, the taliban will be indispensable in the distribution of this valuable support - with the risks of diversion that one can imagine. and the blackmail of migrants to restore development aid will only increase, as afghans were the first nationality of asylum seekers in the european union in august. in short, the west is still trapped in a market of dupes, after decades of ruinous military engagement.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the outcome of the eu—china summit (1april 2022) (2022/2590(rsp)). i have to remind you that free seating is applied, with the exception of the first two rows, that are allocated to group leaders. you will also be able to request catch—the—eye and blue cards for statements or questions to the previous speakers via your voting machine – you have the instructions in front of you – after having inserted your voting card. i would also like to remind you that interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum except for catch—the—eye, blue cards and points of order.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, i am honoured to debrief you on the recent eu-china summit, number 23, that took place on 1 april. i had the honour to accompany both the president of the commission and the president of the council in my double capacity of high representative for foreign and security policy and vice-president of the commission. most of you will agree that our relations with china are not where we would like them to be and, given china’s increasing assertiveness both at home and abroad, it’s clear that we don’t share the same political values. to start with, we have a very different interpretation of human rights, and they recognise it. they told us they have their own constitution, and their own interpretation of human rights. with respect to the war in crimea, china has an ambiguous position on this war, which requires us to put plain facts on the table and to press china to do all within its power to be part of the solution to end the war. that was our primary goal in a dialogue which was everything but a dialogue. in any case, it was a deaf dialogue. china wanted to set aside our differences on ukraine. they didn’t want to talk about ukraine. they didn’t want to talk about human rights and other issues and instead focus on the positive things. the european side made clear that this compartmentalisation from compartments is not feasible and not acceptable. for us, the war in ukraine is a defining moment for whether we live in a world governed by rules or by force. that’s the question. we condemned the russian aggression against ukraine and support this country’s sovereignty and democracy, not because we followed the us blindly, as sometimes china suggests, but because it is our position, our genuine position. this was an important message for the chinese leadership to hear. we called on china to use its influence with russia to reach an immediate ceasefire and to support humanitarian corridors. we stressed that any attempt to assist the russian military, or to help russia circumventing the sanctions we have taken, would have serious consequences and could deteriorate our relations. the chinese side stuck to general statements of ‘wishing to see peace’, ‘we are peaceful people’, ‘we do not invade the others’, and asking for de—escalation, but avoiding specific commitments or avoiding also any kind of blame on russia. as i said, it was not exactly a dialogue, maybe a dialogue of the deaf, but certainly we did not come to an agreement on joint actions. so we couldn’t talk about ukraine a lot, but we didn’t agree on anything else. we didn’t hesitate to raise other issues where we disagree with china. we recalled our concerns about china’s treatment of minorities in xinjiang. both presidents were both very much assertive and clearly addressed this concern. the concern about tibet, inner mongolia, and our dismay at china dismantling the ‘one-country two-systems’ principle in hong kong. we called on china to address global concerns on human rights and labour rights. we stressed the need to relaunch the eu-china human rights dialogue. and on this, i have to say, prime minister li keqiang agreed. the discussion also touched upon international issues. we called on china to play a constructive role in myanmar, in afghanistan, in iran – i have to recognise that on the jcpoa they are playing a constructive role – and also on maritime security. we raised our concerns over the south china sea and called for preserving the status quo in the taiwan strait. we agreed with the chinese leadership on the importance of cooperation on climate and environment, on biodiversity, and agreed that the high level dialogue on environment and climate will continue through regular meetings. it was clear that global recovery from the pandemic is a shared priority. you know that they are facing, again, difficulties facing a new wave of pandemics. we discussed cooperation on vaccination and confirmed our commitment to work with china on a new international instrument to boost pandemic prevention, preparedness and response. at the same time, we requested china to lift its unacceptable and disproportionate sanctions against european decision makers, members of this parliament and national parliaments and intellectuals. as long as chinese control measures will be in place, there is no prospect for the ratification process of the comprehensive agreement on investment to move ahead. that is what i explained clearly, first during my conversations on the preparation of the summit to my counterpart, the foreign affairs ministers and then during the summit. we also were very clear about the need for china to stop using unjustified trade measures targeting lithuania, violation of wto rules, disrupting our internal market. we talked certainly about trade and investments. they wanted to talk about it, and we talked about it. we pointed to the need to address asymmetries in our trade relationships and make it more balanced. we made it clear, too, that china needs to address longstanding difficulties related to market access and investment environment and urged china to find concrete solutions to some of these problems at the next high level trade and economic dialogue. in addition, we also raised issues including the crucial importance of a level playing field in 5g procurement and contracts, and cybersecurity threats were also raised. we stated our readiness to cooperate in research and innovation, in common priority areas like agriculture, biotechnology, climate change, biodiversity, but arguing for our reciprocal relationship. we also stressed that, as global humanitarian needs keep growing, china’s role as a humanitarian donor should also rise. we underline that being a good donor requires robust coordination founded on an effective multilateral humanitarian system. that was the summary that i could go through with you, because i think that the summit was, as i said, not exactly a dialogue because one part was importantly focusing on ukraine and the other was not exactly doing that. we talked about ukraine, without having any commitment from the china side. but i insisted on the idea that we at least should agree on asking for a ceasefire, for humanitarian corridors and to make sure that russia will not use any kind of chemical weapons and weapons of mass destruction, that there are red lines that everybody should agree on in this war, that certainly we want this war to finish as soon as possible, but the way it finishes matters. at least we put these issues on the table and we insisted a lot on them. we must continue the dialogue with them in the resolution of the conflict, because china cannot pretend to be a responsible, great power and close its eyes or cover its ears when it comes to a conflict that obviously makes it uncomfortable, because it knows very well who the aggressor is – although for political reasons, refuses to name him. i remain at your disposal. i am sure we will have an interesting debate about such an important question.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, we had low expectations for this eu-china summit and the outcome was, frankly speaking, rather in line with expectations and not more. i saw, however, much merit in the direct and outspoken approach of the eu leaders. this is in line with the position of this european parliament. we in the epp group reiterate the call for responsible chinese behaviour in international affairs. any chinese actions that support russia’s aggression in ukraine are unacceptable and shall carry severe consequences. i welcome the assertiveness of our eu leaders in defending european values. this is a clear priority for the european people’s party group. we stand for human rights in xinjiang and tibet. we stand for democracy in hong kong. and we stand for peace and stability in the taiwan strait. i must stress that the prolongation of current tensions comes to the detriment of both parties. bilateral eu-china trade has further increased in 2021. this is precisely why we need to engage beijing on tackling structural economic issues such as fair competition, market access and wto. as inta standing rapporteur on china, i sincerely hope that the high-level trade and economic dialogue will soon reconvene and will deliver concrete results. this, of course, must include frank discussion on economic cohesion in lithuania. it must also be stressed that the unacceptable chinese sanctions against members of this house have to be lifted. with these political sanctions in place, that is no possibility for real progress in eu-china trade and investment relations.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, our expectations before the start of the eu-china summit were high. we believed we could influence china into helping us to end the war in ukraine, resolve our current trade dispute and jointly address major environmental and health challenges. we hope that safeguarding our enormous economic relations will be more important than the so-called ‘limitless friendship with russia’, as they call it. we now stand corrected that much more has to be done to turn the tide in our relations. we wished to see china as a partner, but still remain with a potential rival. however, we should understand the chinese leaders’ pleas for a more independent eu policy, even if what they have in mind is a policy independent of our transatlantic partners. in fact, the development of a more autonomous and geopolitically—mindful eu external policy is exactly what europe needs today. we should note that chinese actions and inactions push us toward more assertive and strategically—driven eu policies. in the long run, we need a world where china is our partner and a stability factor. it is high time for the chinese leadership to appreciate the benefits of such an approach.
madam president, i would like to put to the leaders of the people’s republic that president putin has made a disastrous mistake in invading china, but so have you. because by all accounts, he gave you a warning that he would do that and you didn’t object. you should have. because if this horrible war has done anything, it has certainly brought the free world together. i’m not sure this is what you intended. therefore, i’d like to tell you not to make another mistake, because globalisation has already suffered two huge blows. the first, the rise of populism in the west – and it’s partly a reaction to the fact that globalisation was good for poor people in poor countries, but bad for poor people in rich countries – but you have risen a billion people out of poverty in china, and we respect you for that. the second one is the pandemic. we’ve discovered that we need some of those medicines and equipment nearer to home. if you were to supply president putin with the lethal assistance that he needs to crush ukraine, it’s not just what we would do, it’s what our consumers would be thinking about every time they consider buying a chinese product. you really don’t want to go there. you don’t want that effect. you don’t want to deal globalisation a third blow that globalisation might not survive.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. on behalf of the ppe group, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ruiz deves, and the entire negotiating team for this report. what's happening in europe today is that education is crucial, and civic education in particular. it is the young generation that will decide our future. education is a prerequisite for active and aware citizenship and therefore for democratic participation. unfortunately, only half of pupils in the european union say they have had the opportunity to learn about europe at school. education about the european union and its values and democratic processes must therefore be significantly strengthened. we need to empower young people to be more involved in elections and reduce misinformation. this is why it is so important that the commission develops an exemplary curriculum in the context of eu and global citizenship education. it must be drawn up in conjunction with experts and representatives of the educational community and adopted by all member states. these programmes should, inter alia, promote a better understanding of the history of european integration, the institutions of the european union and their functions, european electoral and decision-making processes, and the ways in which citizens participate in the democratic life of the union. as meps, we also call for the development of specific civic education objectives and their promotion through a new european civic education strategy. and we also need to focus on the quality of teaching, which has the greatest impact on effective learning. continuous training and upskilling of all teachers and trainers is therefore necessary, especially with regard to the european and global dimensions of civic education. modern civic education must also raise awareness of the ecological transformation and digitalisation, and take into account the need to act responsibly towards the planet.
on behalf of the ecr group. (start of the speech off the microphone) ... is only based on the exchange of best practices. however, some of the draft report's provisions go beyond the role that the eu institutions can and should play in this respect. the diversity of the european union, including the diversity of its education systems, is a fundamental value of the european union. it is up to the member states to decide how to implement civic education. attempts to harmonize the curriculum, the curriculum, the number of hours of study are an infringement of their rights. the establishment of union indicators or targets which serve to monitor the solutions adopted by the member states in the field of digital education and thus provide a basis for their assessment according to the vision of the model of civic education adopted by the union institutions cannot be accepted. as the proposed division of powers in the field of education is unacceptable the report openly promotes federalism, european identity and mentions european citizenship on many occasions we will vote against this project.
madam president! mr. high representative! i'm not going to let you down. mr. chairman charles! i'm not going to let you down. in bucha, russian soldiers entered the basements where the residents were hiding. they made people undress, they raped women, they murdered men in a brutal way. in their rage, they murdered children in a brutal way. mariupol is destroyed. people are suffering. such images today shock us, outrage us. we don't believe that they're really happening. we in poland saw it during the second world war, when poles were murdered by the germans, the russians. but after that war, everybody said, "never again". how often have we heard the assurance: "never again!" and those words were also spoken here today in this room. and think of the wars, the cruelty, the murder that took place during that time. we are once again debating sanctions. once again, we're wondering what we need to do to stop putin. sanctions are in place, and putin is still killing. they don't work. now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now. we have to make some important decisions right now. the entire civilized democratic world must close its borders to putin. there's no time for that. ukraine doesn't have time. europe has no time. since our last session, bucza, irpin, has been destroyed by mariupol. the european council should be held immediately. mr. president charles, call a meeting of the european council! make the important decisions. let the world shut up about putin! it's the only way to stop him. we must immediately abandon oil, gas and all contact with russia. that is the only way to stop this aggressor. i say it again and i will say it again and again: europe, courage! this is really a moment where we have to show that we are united, that we are brave.
we have given you the opportunity to reply, mr daly, and we are trying to maintain the necessary calm to continue the debate and to respect the views of all our colleagues.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for six weeks now we have been living through a war in ukraine, as a result of the russian invasion, which has presented us with ever more and more gruesome images of the real horror of the people in the regions in conflict. it is of the utmost importance that we, as the european union, respond unambiguously to this aggression in these times. but it is equally important that we do not allow ourselves to be overwhelmed by the inevitable emotions that arise, that we keep a clear head in our decisions despite all the horror. the aim is clear, and every man with heart and mind shares it: this war must be ended as soon as possible. to help make that happen, we're putting sanctions on russia. for sanctions to have the desired effect - history teaches us that very often this is not the case - they must be sharp, effective and targeted. you have to meet putin and his war machine. but there are certain side effects that we ourselves are unfortunately unavoidable. but sanctions which are primarily driving our own citizens, our own economies, into economic ruin, as a short-term total gas embargo would do, are prohibited. it would not be in the interest of anyone if we were to take economically suicidal sanctions decisions. i therefore appeal to the european council, to the governments of the member states: be determined, yes. but please, be equally prudent. it is undeniable that it is our humanitarian duty to provide aid and solidarity to people fleeing from war zones, which fortunately is also happening on a large scale. and it is our foreign policy task to do everything in our power to bring about a cessation of hostilities. i would therefore like to remind you that it is imperative, even in the worst of times, to keep the channels of communication open, however great the obstacle. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' procedure.)
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, you have used your "reason" many times, let's use our "reason"! you also used the expression that "the sanctions we have put in place are not enough". i would like to know what concrete measures you think we have not yet taken, because, after all, this debate should bring proposals to the commission and the council to do something more, but what i have heard from you is that we must be more rational. can you tell us concretely: what should we do to stop the war, stop people dying and help these people?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. look, i'm all about responding with discretion. i think that the sanctions we have now imposed and the new ones we are imposing are right. i also see the desire in this house to go even further and to embark on a total gas embargo. we would actually be ruining ourselves economically - in some countries completely, in others less so. and that's something that's not going to do anybody any good. if we want to give aid and solidarity, we must be able to do so. we're not doing that by ruining ourselves economically. i 'm telling you specifically: i think the sanctions are right and i fully support them, including what is now being put in place. but i am resolutely opposed to the call - which we have here - for a total embargo on energy from russia at this time. we have to do this step by step. of course, we must become independent and free of it. of course we have to get rid of it. but we have to do it in stages, so we don't ruin ourselves. because sanctions that hit us harder than russia itself would be counterproductive. that's why i wanted to express this.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! there are no words to describe the drama of the ukrainians, the crimes we see every day and the images we see before our eyes. the bombing of ukraine. a woman killed in front of her house, her house in ruins, and these keys to the apartment that fell out: with a keychain with the european union flag. yes, today it's not just ukraine that is being bombed and ukrainians are being killed. it is also putin's attack on our european home, on our order and security. and that's why the ukrainians are fighting for us, and we can't waste any time and we have to be united, decisive, very determined to help the ukrainians, but also to restore peace and order. the ukrainians need weapons today, heavy weapons: tanks, missiles, ammunition. but we also have an economic weapon. and i call on all of you to rise above the divisions, from left to right, above national selfishness, because today, being selfish is not patriotic. there's no time for economic calculations. we need a full embargo on coal, oil, but also gas. and there is an amendment that allows us to speak out forcefully and decisively as a house and organize pressure on our governments. it's now, not "as soon as possible". what does that mean, "i'm not"? where's the technical and analytical, some economic diversions? today, parliament must say clearly: cut putin off from the euro. every euro is a euro for the army and the criminals. and there's blood in the gas line. and we have to say clearly: stop, let's stop this! full embargo, embargo today, now, now, immediately. i call on you to be united, to be united. let's amend this resolution. there is an amendment that could make this resolution a clear, strong signal to the whole of europe.
madam president! the time for political correctness is long over, but some in europe and, as we hear, even in this room have not yet noticed it. when ukrainian mothers write contact details for loved ones on their children's skin so that someone will take care of them after the death of their parents, i hear in the context of ukraine a discussion about the copenhagen criteria. when russian troops rape ukrainian women and girls, some have the audacity to mention the unprofitability of moving away from russian fossil fuels. while the russians are looting ukrainian homes and shops, trying to smuggle even the pans out of the country, there are those in europe who still prefer european prosperity and, of course, the russian market. while the russians are trying to murder a european nation, there is one leader of a country in europe whose real enemy is the president of ukraine. the longer this war goes on, the more obvious those who try to maintain the so-called symmetry or even understand russia. let us stand firmly behind those who fight for us and our values, for the future of our children, so that our sons do not have to die! this is not their war, it's our war, and they have to fight it. perhaps in this context it is worth quoting former russian president medvedev, who says that eurasia stretches from vladivostok to lisbon. it's their dream. let's be clear: we must say no to the russian fuel leak, and the oligarchs' assets must be confiscated for the sake of ukrainian reconstruction. the sanctions are meant to hurt ordinary russians, and the criminals must be caught and punished. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the eu is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. i expect, josep, that you will give this message to zelensky in kiev. no more talk. we have to act now!
madam president, the situation has deteriorated since the versailles summit. in this debate and our resolution, we welcome the conclusions but we move beyond them. we also welcomed the proposed package of sanctions yesterday, but we need to be stronger and move beyond it. to support their heroic resistance, we need to bolster our military equipment production and delivery to ukraine. furthermore, budgetary procedures cannot be an issue when it comes to collecting evidence and prosecution of war crimes. time is of the essence here, and we have to move now. the commission and the eu supervisory authorities must closely monitor all member states’ comprehensive implementation of all sanctions and share these data. we should also introduce secondary sanctions on all entities in the european union and third countries that will aid the russian and belarussian regimes to bypass sanctions. all loopholes must be closed, and all enablers must be sanctioned. the same goes for the countries that aspire to join the eu. their lack of alignment has to have clear consequences on their integration process. yes, sanctions cost russia, and they cost us too. our citizens also carry the financial burden, so we need a european solidarity mechanism that will address their economic and social consequences and pave the way toward energy independence. we can only do it if we do it together. these brutal actions by russia show us that we have to do it. during the pandemic, we showed it was possible. democracy costs, and the ukrainians know it too well these days as they pay the highest price for it. we cannot escape our responsibility, our commitments and our credibility. this is no time for calculations of economic gains and losses; it is time for decisive action. by defending itself, ukraine is fighting for us.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the horrific images of the violence in bucha and in many other cities in ukraine have provoked the right reaction from the west, the right and sacrosanct reaction from the european union. it is clear that our goal is peace: we must work to achieve it, but we must remember that there is no peace without justice. that is why we must defend the independence and territorial integrity of ukraine, and roberta metsola did well to represent all of us in kiev, to show that we are for peace but for peace with justice. it is obvious that the sanctions we are imposing on russia must be accompanied by strong european action in support of citizens, families and businesses. i think it is right to have the stability of a recovery which, through the use of bonds, allows us, for example, to help countries like poland which, with great courage, are welcoming millions of ukrainians fleeing their country. european solidarity must be supported, as must the action to have a common european defence, as must the action to have self-sufficiency in agri-food. beware of the threats coming from russia, beware of what may happen in africa: if the russians do not send wheat and corn to those countries, we will face further migration flows from the south to the north of europe. we must certainly think about the cap and also think about the 'producer to consumer' strategy: the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must also work hard to think about how to rebuild ukraine, which is now a candidate country to be part of the european union. and then there's the energy issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. our strength is the unity of europe, the unity of the whole west: the union, the united states and nato.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. we are discussing this morning the dire situation in ukraine. the horrific images from bucha - many have spoken about them - fill us all with dismay, despair and anger and, yes, also with determination, not least to punish those responsible for these crimes. putin - i'm sure - did not expect this determination. and to maintain that resolve, we must stand together as the eu. and i think that in order to be united, we have to take account of the different concerns that exist in the eu. this applies to the support of eu member states which share a border with ukraine and are therefore the main target of war refugees. and it's about the right calibration of sanctions. no one is helped when production is interrupted, when factories are turned into scrap because glass or aluminium factories need a continuous supply of energy. and since we are in a single market, it is not local failures, but the breaks in the supply chain will quickly spread to other member states. my concern is the possible reaction of people caught between rising energy prices and worries about jobs. ladies and gentlemen, if the people no longer support the sanctions, then in the end it will be in putin's favour, and nobody wants that. the abandonment of gas imports from russia is right, and it must be prepared by increasing the european union's resilience - that is, by expanding renewable energy rapidly and on a continental basis. this means that we in the member states of the european union are doing our homework and closing the gaps in infrastructure to be able to distribute existing energy better among the member states. and that means diversifying energy imports. let us be determined to end europe's dependence on fossil fuels - first from russia, then from all the others.
madam chairman! commissioners, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. the images from butja are terrible. the brutal killing of innocent civilians. a man walking home with a bag of potatoes. another one comes cycling in, bunches with female by the side of the road, naked and burned. the images are so cruel that they are difficult to describe. we lack words, but right now we need words, we need political words, and we need action behind the words. what we're seeing in butja is like war crimes committed by putin, and there should be consequences. those who are behind these brutal attacks and killings must be held accountable. this applies to those with military power as well as to those with political power. that is why, dear friends, we need to tighten up the sanctions against russia and belarus again. in close coordination here in the eu, but also with our allies elsewhere. we should have put a thumbs-up on putin. it must be felt when international rules are violated. my colleagues here today have spoken a great deal about energy sanctions. i support it completely. we need to tighten up sanctions, but we can also do more. we actually need to look at the digital sanctions as well. every single day, russian tech companies harvest sensitive data from millions of smartphones, including smartphones here in europe. it's data that could potentially be used against ukrainian fugitives or russians working against putin's regime. the road from the russian data harvest to putin's desk in the kremlin is quite short, even if the mobile phone is in europe. in this way, every single app that contains components from a russian tech company poses a potential danger to all those working for a peaceful ukraine and a democratic russia. so that's why we also need to look in the toolbox for digital sanctions now. we need to impose a data embargo on the eu and the west so that the flow of data from russian tech companies can stop as soon as possible. we need to take all the weapons out of putin's hands, including the digital weapons he's using against his own citizens and against the ukrainians. i hope we can stop this now.
madam president, mr borrell, commissioner, it is difficult to find words to express the horror of the russian barbarism perpetrated before the eyes of the world in ukraine. when faced with a moral human choice between good and evil, we cannot be neutral. neutrality means we're with the aggressor. despite the enormous investment in the kremlin's propaganda war, there can be no doubt who is the aggressor and who is the victim. war always leads to great suffering, and war must end today, but it must not end with a victory for the aggressor. there's no time to delay. i therefore appeal to you, to the council, to the commission and to the member states. double and triple your efforts, ukraine can't wait. if one or two parties do not want to participate in enhanced measures or sanctions, or do not want to participate in defense equipment supplies, then without them it must continue. right now, ukraine is on the borderline between civilization and barbarism. a potential loss to ukraine is a loss to our freedom and security. i support mrs verhofstadt's earlier statement that sanctions should be tightened to the maximum and that they should be effectively enforced by the member states and also by the applicant countries. they must also, along with us, participate in all sanctions. we have to shut down all funding for the russian war machine. the maximum amount and scope of support should be provided to ukraine in the form of defence equipment, humanitarian aid, macro-financial assistance, as well as support for refugees, for children fleeing war. i would like to ask the commission and the council to find ways of using the russian state assets that are in the european union, as well as the assets of the oligarchs, to support ukraine. and finally, something very sad for me. it is shameful and disgraceful the behavior of the bulgarian rulers who, for fear of the collapse of the coalition, are discouraged, i will say it like todor zhivkovski. they don't want to support with defense equipment those who fight for our freedom in ukraine. and one last point, i would like to pay my big respect to president metsola. she was there in kiev. but i would also like to ask if the bureau of the parliament could please return the ukrainian flag here to the plenary until the war has ended with the victory of freedom and ukraine. slava ukraini! - what are you doing?
madam president, mr vice-president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we are at war. the massacre in bucha proves that putin's barbarity knows no bounds. more than ever, we must support ukraine humanitarian and militarily. let us be aware that this war has an unbearable cost in human lives and desolation for the ukrainians, but also economic and social costs for europeans and the rest of the world. in the face of putin's aggression we must defend our democracies, bearing in mind that citizens have been under two years of tension with the pandemic and now, in addition, suffer the cost of war with an exorbitant increase in prices. our duty is to make them feel protected not only militarily, but also economically and socially. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, the european union cannot be a world political power without deterrence. it must take its share of responsibility, as the high representative reminded us this morning. the next nato summit in madrid in june must therefore produce a new strategic concept for the alliance with a genuine european defence policy. on the other hand, runaway inflation jeopardises economic recovery and increases inequalities. the energy bill must be reduced urgently and in this respect the recent european summit was a turning point in the union's energy policy. europe has reacted in unity, but with respect for diversity, as has been shown by the recognition of the 'iberian exceptionalism' so that spain and portugal can temporarily limit the price of the megawatt. i am glad that the commission and the member states are gradually taking up the proposals of the spanish government to achieve an energy market reform that moves towards a true energy union, clean and affordable for all. we can only do this with unity. it is necessary for all european political forces, starting with those in my own country, to show a sense of state and support the governments in order to successfully face all these challenges.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the continuing russian war of aggression and the humanitarian suffering it has caused in ukraine are shocking and appalling to us all. the images from bucha that reached us over the weekend are unbearable. the war crimes against innocent people - men, women, children - must be punished. those responsible must be held to account. we must do everything we can to end this war as quickly as possible. so, to me, that means we really have to do everything that does more harm to putin than it does to us. i have two things to say: firstly, i welcome the european commission's proposal to stop the import of russian coal. at the same time, we need to stop importing russian oil. because russian exports of coal and oil are both easily substitutable, and we can add to these russian government embargoes. russian banks involved in oil and coal trading must also be disconnected from the swift system. i am glad that this is now also provided for in the fifth sanctions package. but i also think it is clear that if we can even come close to accepting a gas embargo, we should implement it. at the moment this is not the case, but i very much hope that if all the member states work hard to make us more independent in this area, we will be able to impose a gas embargo in good time. secondly, we must now start building a common security architecture in the eu. i think joint procurement makes sense. i think it makes sense to pool our research activities in the field of security and defence. there are plenty of suggestions. we have discussed this subject many times in the european parliament, and have drawn up and put forward proposals. we must now take a very concrete approach to the building of a common security and defence union. i admit that i have not yet seen any concrete initiatives from the member states in this respect, and i would be glad if the member states would finally take the appropriate steps here.
madam president, thank you for your time. the russian aggression and the barbaric killing of people proves that the world we thought we lived in is collapsing before our eyes, a world where dignity, human life, is respected. putin's in ukraine because he didn't take over ukraine in two days. it's not likely he'll take it for another two months, and we may be preparing for as much as two years of war as military experts predict. putin did not win because the ukrainians were united, because they heroically and courageously resisted the aggressor, and on the other hand, because we in europe have also shown unity and are helping ukraine in its struggle with both arms and humanitarian things. we must realize that the world is not supporting us in these sanctions, but the democratic world. that china, india, and the arab states didn't join. serbia has not joined either, and some european countries are already hesitating. so it's going to be a tough fight. but we certainly must keep up the fight. the russians won't stop our sanctions, they can weaken them. it's going to stop russia from getting the weapons the ukrainians need. that's why i'm very supportive of what the czech republic and the united states are doing. and we must also do even better and stronger in this respect in the military field. humanitarian aid is certainly needed, and with sanctions, there is no time for speculation. germany has been financing russia for 20, 30 years with gas purchases, thinking it was a regulated country. but today we see that we are financing the war and that we have invested so much money in russian gas, 536 billion , at this time of war, is unacceptable. and we have no right to worry about how we will live, while in ukraine people are dying defending european borders, defending the democratic system. that's why we celebrate ukraine. we owe it to ourselves, we have a responsibility to support ukraine fully.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to say that we are all appalled by the latest massacre we have seen, the one in bucha, and so many others. a few months ago we were commemorating in the european institutions that the success of the european union - the great success - was that there had been no war for 70 years. we were commemorating it and saying: if the european union has succeeded, it has succeeded in avoiding war and replacing it with dialogue and peace. well, we have on our continent - not in the european union, but on the european continent - a bloody war, a tremendous, unequal, unbalanced invasion. and from day one we've been aware of that. and diplomacy, ladies and gentlemen, is not working here, it's not working. we must act as the commission is doing, with all possible measures. and we'll probably have to keep articulating this. i want to give my full support to the european commission, i want us to congratulate ourselves on this european union and i also want to stress the importance of the unity of all, of all european countries. it's very important that no one leaves the agreement. that is what will give us strength in the face of a dictator like putin, in the face of a universal massacre, for which he will have to sit before the hague tribunal finally. i would therefore like to thank mr borrell for his words and speech. loud and clear, as always, loud and clear, saying the things that need to be heard and that need to be heard in this house, because we all have to internalize it. the european union is our great strength and, as you have rightly said, if we were not here, if it did not exist, we would have to invent it. of course, mr borrell, i'm not going to let you. that is the key to everything: the actions against putin, against russia, but above all our unity and our strength in joint measures and the strengthening of the european institutions.
madam president, putin is a butcher. we saw this in bucha. in ukrainian (the speaker uses a non-official language); in polish, putin to rzeźnik; in german, putin ist ein metzger; in spanish, putin es un carnicero; in french, poutine est un boucher; in hungarian, for mr orbán, putin egy hentes; in swedish, putin är en slaktare; in silesian (the speaker uses a non-official language). i demand from the european parliament to condemn putin and call him a war criminal. this symbolic act will honour thousands of ukrainians who were killed fighting for democracy, who were killed fighting for our common values and, non-symbolic, stop importing coal, gas and oil from russia now. long live ukraine!
madam president! i want to say that the union will only be great if it is clearly and firmly against the putin regime clearly! there must be no information of any kind that undermines the unity of the european union. poland today is that example, that country which, like other countries neighbouring ukraine, provides beautiful help to ukrainian families. apart from sanctions, or perhaps even next to sanctions, the most important issue today is helping ukrainian families who have moved to poland, romania, hungary, the czech republic, slovakia. these people are here. in poland, the polish government spent 8 billion zlotys of its own budget to support these refugees. 8 billion zloty is 2 billion euro. poland has already given the ukrainian families a pesel number. there are already 800,000 ukrainian children and mothers in the polish registry, so we have their names, surnames, dates of birth. we have their declarations that they want to stay in poland. so my question is: when will this help from the european union be available to countries that are already bearing the cost of supporting these families, because unfortunately there will be more refugees? the war is on, the war will continue. i think we just need to make the right budget changes in advance to help those who are fleeing putin's bombs from ukraine right now. this is our duty! we have a multiannual financial framework, we have to make this budget more flexible. we have national reconstruction plans, we have to re-prioritize. today, we just have to put people first!
in writing. ukraine has been fighting for over a month. he's not only fighting for his freedom, but for the security of europe. and here we have the trojan horses in the union - germany, france and the netherlands. this war would not have happened if it had not been for nord stream 1 and 2, if it had not been for the dependence on russian energy supplies. it could be said that germany's desire to dominate europe once again led to war. i blame the fact that people are dying in ukraine, and i blame the countries that sold arms to russia after 2014 despite the embargo. and today the union finances the war, paying russia 600 million euros a day. so who should feel guilty for the brutal aggression against the ukrainian civilian population? since the invasion of ukraine, putin has received 45 billion euros from the eu, while ukraine has received only 1 billion. this is european hypocrisy. what did poland get for helping ukraine? the european commission has just deducted the fine imposed by a woman from the ecj from the amount of the fine granted to poland. is the war and more than 2 million ukrainian refugees in poland an opportunity for the predicted starvation of poland? we have another debate in the ep about poland, because apparently poland, not russia, is the enemy. and that is what the union's solidarity is in the face of war! no one here thinks that evil should be stopped as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: one of the pillars of the new strategy is to ensure reciprocity and equal opportunities in international cooperation. over the past three years of cooperation, horizon 2020 has established scientific relations with third countries, including 30 cooperation initiatives with several countries such as canada, japan, china, india and african countries. poland is the founder and initiator of the bioeast central european agricultural research and innovation initiative, which aims to increase the participation of 13 countries in the framework programmes for research and innovation in agriculture, including the bioeconomy. horizon europe is a new research and innovation programme with a budget of €97 billion. poland's aim is to make more use of the national science potential and increase its share of funding from the european union's framework programmes. question: what mechanism will the european commission use to ensure that all areas of the european union have equal access to the programme's funds and to ensure the sustainable development of the european union, the 13 countries of central and eastern europe and poland?
i'd like to inform you that the minutes of yesterday's meeting and the texts adopted are now available. are there any comments? i can't see. the protocols have been adopted.
i'm gonna need you to stay calm. we're going to debate.
the next item is the debate on the current topic (rule 162) on the cooperation of the putin regime with the far right and separatists in europe and the similarities between them (2022/2626 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the furious and brutal war that we see that putin’s russia holds against ukraine shows what putin considers his biggest enemy: it’s democracy, it’s media freedom, it’s civil liberties, it’s our european values. and that’s the reason why he’s running that kind of brutal war crimes against his own brother and sister peoples in ukraine. but not just that. he’s fuelling fake news. he’s fuelling disinformation within the european union. and he’s clearly supporting extreme right parties to dismantle our democratic processes here within the european union. first and foremost, our dear friend viktor orbán. sometimes when these authoritarian people have their best moment of success, they are very honest. he claimed that hungary is in a war against the european union. that’s just what putin likes him to say. but what about the lega’s salvini? can you tell us why you wear t-shirts of mr putin? or actually what have you been talking to mr malofeev, who is putin’s main organizer of the alt-right in the european union? and would you tell us how much russian money you invested into your last eu campaign just a few years ago? or, madame le pen, tell us why you have skipped handing out leaflets with you hand-shaking with mr putin, who is considered a war criminal, meanwhile? or how do you deal with your doubts that you’re still having with mr popov, one of the most famous oligarchs of mr putin – you still owe him millions. how do you pay him back? do you pay back with political favours or how are you doing that? but meanwhile, well, your best friend orbán has stepped in and given you another 10.6 million for the current presidential campaign from a bank that shall not be named. afd, mr gauland going to mr aleksandr dugin or my dear friends from the austrian parliament, the fpö. mr vilimsky, what was actually the content of the friendship agreement that your party had from 2016 until 2021? what was your cooperation with the war criminal, mr putin? would you tell the house here what that is? you are claiming that you are patriots, but you’re the exact opposite. you’re traitors and you’re selling european interests to an autocratic war criminal named mr putin. shame on you.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! it's good that we're talking publicly about who was speaking about putin in public, and how they spoke. it's something to be condemned, and i'm with those who do it, unless it's part of some internal political game, well, then i'm not with you. and all those who have done good for russia and putin deserve to be reprimanded and criticized. and i agree with president glucksmann, whom i respect, and who said that this is a matter of both the extreme right and the extreme left. because there is no shortage of such statements, as the representative of the spanish popular party has just said here. everybody does it. let's be objective here. the question is, who's doing more damage? is it the one who stupidly - and this is reprehensible - puts on a t-shirt with mr. putin - pure stupidity - or the one who has been investing in nord stream for years, and thanks to this kind of effort russia is getting stronger? and then there's the russian payroll. it's a shame. it was chancellor schröder, it's still there. the austrian foreign minister, mrs. kneissl, was on it, and she's still on it. but there are also politicians like françois fillon, who resigned, but for years he was. there was the chancellor of austria. and from one option, and from the other option, and the socialists, and the hadeks, mr. kern and mr. schuessel. i'm glad they quit, but they were for years. there was also prime minister matteo renzi. so let's throw stones where the right people are. and the far right, and the far left, and all the parties and leaders who were guilty of this.
madam president, commissioner, the links between putin and his regime and various european movements have long been known. firstly, the extreme right-wing movements, such as those of le pen, salvini and others; secondly, the separatist movements, for example in the case of the catalan question, where russian interference was clear. but also, for example, the case of brexit. brexit, which dealt a profound blow to the european union, was directly encouraged and supported by putin and the moscow regime. and so we must also look not only at the links which are ideological links and which are to the extreme right, but also to the extreme left, to syriza, to podemos, to the parties of the extreme left in portugal. we must also look at the question of separatism. and that is why, as rapporteur for bosnia-herzegovina, it is essential to sound an alarm to this house and to all the european institutions. now, as in years past, putin is instrumentalising separatist instincts in bosnia to create destabilisation and bring war back. the risk in bosnia-herzegovina, now that 30 years have passed since the war began, has never been greater than it is now, after the dayton peace agreements, and it is therefore essential, in order to stop putin, that the european union does its work in favour of peace and development and the european path of bosnia-herzegovina.
madam president! russia's invasion of ukraine has made it so that even the most skeptical of people can no longer deny that vladimir putin is an enemy of democracy and freedom and a war criminal. until recently, however, he had a wide circle of sympathizers among european right-wing politicians. mrs le pen and mr salvini have defended the kremlin's case on every occasion and have implemented a political plan written in moscow to disrupt the project of european integration. at this point, i would like to acknowledge what i heard from the italian representative dreosto of the id. i cannot ignore what mr czarnecki said about the slight but very painful and visible manifestations of the extreme left's pro-putin behaviour. propaganda through russian media, money to fund right-wing political parties, and influencing electoral processes through a wave of fake news are russian methods to distort our democracy that the kremlin has used in recent years. today all the masks are off. there is no longer any place for putin's friends in our democratic family. either we are for democracy, independent media, free courts and elections, or we are the anti-democratic fifth column that is breaking the unity and security of the european union and working in the interests of russia. when ukrainian civilians are being massacred in the streets of bucha and other cities, the accomplice of the criminal is the one who covers up or distorts the picture of this tragedy or finds excuses for russia's actions. when only solidarity at european level can protect us from russian aggression, it is a useful fool who weakens the european union by not respecting eu law, blocking important community initiatives or organising meetings of the internationalist international of putin. we must take all the necessary steps at the legal and political level to limit russia's influence on european political parties and our democratic processes. and all the leaders of the european countries must understand that there is no third way between eu democracy and russian tyranny.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. well, the subject of this debate is the search for a right wing that works with russia. i'll help you. well, let's remember that germany, in alliance with russia, destroyed poland in the 18th and 19th centuries. the head of the prussian administration in poland stated that the purpose of this action was to "remove germans and people from former slaves and slavs". in the 20th century, when poland returned to the world map, it was again destroyed by germany and russia in the famous molotov-ribbentrop pact, and the german leader considered the poles to be subhuman and less than free. in the 21st century, germany and russia built a gas pipeline over the heads of poles and slavs and forced everyone to buy their gas through climate policy, and they also claim that poles in the courts cannot do what germans do at home because they have a worse tradition and culture. well, ladies and gentlemen, if you're looking for a right-wing that is cooperating with russia, i want to tell you that for almost 400 years, for more than 400 years, germany has been in europe. i'll tell you one more thing, stop pretending that you're doing anything to help ukraine. but there is one thing that could make putin give in - so macron stop calling him.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. well, russia, like ukraine, has claims on poland. and i think the kremlin must be having a lot of fun watching germany, at the hands of the european union, attack poland, which is the biggest supporter of ukraine. you want to impose sanctions on poland because we don't want to do everything like you. but really, how are we supposed to imitate you? in this indifference to the fate of ukraine? you yourself calculated that cutting off russia's funds would cost every german at most 80 euros a month. and you say "no". what's the matter? are we to imitate this stint and this numbness? you promised ukraine weapons and you promised ukraine security. you didn't keep any of it. you want us to copy this bastard? or is it the putin rally in berlin? it never happened anywhere else. is that supposed to be our model? you've been playing russia for years, and now you've got the results: but i know, i know... i'm sorry, you did something. you guys were silent for a minute. but it's a lot easier than cutting off nord stream. you've already lost because you're morally on the wrong side. fortunately, there are nations in europe that are not indifferent to the fate of ukrainians, such as poland, which knows very well what ukrainians are going through today, because there are still people living in poland who remember very well how the germans burned children in the ovens. they remember the wola massacre, they remember the genocide in warsaw and across the country. and to this day, the germans have paid nothing for it. and today they want to be the arbiters of morality and they want to teach everybody what the rule of law is. you may have more money and more intelligence today, but you don't have what it takes to lead europe. you're incapable of sacrificing anything to defend the good. and if you had spent the same amount of time that you spent sanctioning poland to sanction russia, ukraine would be saved today.
madam president! there is a war and the need for a strong community response and indeed full cooperation. what do we got? and we're under attack again, against whom? on ourselves. all those who attack our partners in europe are putin's henchmen. they're exactly who putin's counting on. and i wanted to say that it's very simple to solve this conflict that we're debating today. no one can steal with impunity. you just have to not steal. no one can break the law. you just have to not break the law. i will appeal and appeal to prime minister morawiecki from this rostrum, because from this rostrum in the fall he declared that the disciplinary chamber will be dissolved, the judges will be reinstated. a few months and where's the implementation of those words, prime minister morawiecki? today i call for an immediate return to negotiations and an end to this dispute, because the poles will indeed be a model democracy. we will fix it ourselves in poland, but this dispute is against the interest of poland, it is against the interest of the nation and the expectations of the poles. eighty-two percent demand and expect good cooperation with the european institutions and our place in europe. one and a half percent is the voice we just heard. prime minister morawiecki, fire these blackmailers because they are not acting in the national interest. don't be afraid. we'll help you settle this dispute.
the question asked by raising the blue card. madam president, thank you very much for taking the question. you are very active in speaking out about the situation in poland. i wanted to ask you very specifically, because you have raised the issue of the rule of law, the rule of law mechanism, you have co-created this rule of law mechanism. i would like to ask you specifically, please, to give some specific information about the fraud of funds by a person in poland, the fraud of eu funds by a company in poland, the fraud of eu funds by a polish company, funds that have been transferred to poland in any financial perspective. i've asked the same question to chairman dombrovskis and commissioner gentiloni, and they've given me the answer. if you have a problem, ask them what they told me. now, tell me, do you know of any cases where poland has misappropriated funds?
madam president! bombed cities, women raped, little girls, parents killed in front of their children with a bullet in the back of their heads. mass executions, bodies lying in the streets. animals left on farms and in laboratories dying of hunger and thirst. this is a moment when we must speak with even greater determination about the rule of law and human rights and we cannot let go because of war, because we see what has happened to disregard for these values and failure to respond to human rights violations. when politics is asleep, dictatorships are born and strengthened. i appeal to the council and the european commission not to let up! it must be clear to the government of each country that there is no place in our community for the destruction of the judiciary, the free media and civil society. and no government that violates the rule of law and human rights should receive eu funds. the funds must go to local governments and ngos.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. once again, my homeland, poland, is under attack in the european parliament. this time it comes at a particular moment during the russian aggression against ukraine. poland, which has taken in two and a half million refugees, is the most committed to helping ukrainian citizens. and even these circumstances did not stop the state from holding another session of hatred and unlawful attack on poland, which today defends the honor of europe. you're repeating slogans that are pulled from putin's propaganda. look into your eyes before it's too late! the former us ambassador to poland had the courage to admit that the west had been deceived by russian disinformation. poland has already participated in five article 7 hearings in the council. all the issues have been cleared up. it's time to end this procedure! and as for blocking kpo funds for poland, it is not only illegal, but in the face of the war in ukraine and the costs that poland bears by supporting ukrainian citizens, it is simply immoral.
president. - despite the war in ukraine, our concern about the rule of law in poland and hungary is of course legitimate. poland still does not meet the conditions set by the european commission for the abolition of the controversial polish disciplinary court. we also see that the situation has deteriorated further since the beginning of the war in ukraine. recently, another judge who applies eu law and judgments of the court of justice of the european union was suspended. in hungary, by contrast, the elections were free, but the osce notes that the electoral playing field is uneven and does not actually meet international standards and obligations. orbán's party has reformed the current electoral system to its advantage and naturally has a great deal of influence over much of the media landscape. the line between state and party is becoming increasingly blurred. i'm not saying that. the osce is. but, ladies and gentlemen, the bitter war in ukraine reminds europe more than ever of our duty to defend democracy, the rule of law and our values. as long as poland and hungary continue to undermine the rule of law, no european funds should be allowed to flow to these countries. the european commission should therefore no longer be in doubt. it must take its responsibility and not wait a day longer to put the conditionality mechanism into effect, as the european parliament has been asking for months.
dear writers, do you see what happens when you break the law? a putin agency, exactly like the one we have in budapest. over the years, your friend orbán has been appropriating his homeland just like you have: institution after institution. he's been muzzling the media, breaking the backs of some journalists, throwing others out of business, taking away radio licenses, taking over local newspapers, just like you. he finally established freedom of speech and democracy in hungary. because no one will tell me that when 90% of the media in a country is spreading government propaganda, when the government controls all the institutions, and spends the equivalent of 3% of gdp on the election campaign, that the elections can be fair. a system that boils down to throwing a ballot box at the rules set by an autocrat is a mockery of democracy. we were supposed to be a big hungary, and we ended up with a weak lunch with an expired russian sausage. orbán has created a closed system, and his people have been covered in a tight closet of putin's disinformation. he feeds his compatriots kremlin propaganda, putting russian positions and accounts blaming ukrainians in the media. mr. waszczykowski, did you really support putin's servant in this election?! lawmakers, especially the pimps, come to your senses! this is the last moment. leave this authoritarian tram that orbán's motorcycle drives straight to the ruski mir stop. putin's worst nightmare is a strong, united in diversity, federal europe. this is the direction we need to go.
blue-card question. – you call for an action against poland because of the judiciary system, because of the reform in judiciary system, and i would like to ask you: do you know what really poles changed in this system?
blue-card question. – so, you spoke about honesty and i would like to ask you how you comment on your german government and the fact that nord stream 1 is still open – concerning your relation to russia. and from your group, at the beginning of this year, it was mentioned that poland and russia are very connected – like the polish government and putin are very connected. do you still, today, think they are so connected with a partnership and that your government is not connected to putin?
the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much for taking the question. my question is going to be very simple and very precise, because i like precision in my statements. you were kind enough to give me the statistics and you say that 4% of the eu funds in poland were defrauded, as i understand it, or, as you said later, went into the pockets of despots. sir, please state your source! there's no such data in poland. i want to know exactly what source you gave because you did it in a public statement. this is very important.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. it is indeed a great courage for the french presidency to discuss poland in the context of article 7, because it is france we should be talking about today. the country that has been selling arms to russia since 2014 despite the embargo. and it's a country whose companies see no reason to withdraw from the russian market. a few days ago, the representative of the parliamentary majority janina ochojska said that they are doing everything in the european parliament to prevent poland from receiving money. hence the blocking of the reconstruction fund, hence the conditionality, hence the debate about the republic in the context of fakes, half-truths, untruths or newspaper headlines and in the context of war. poland is not just about two and a half million refugees. it's 200,000 children and youth in the education system, it's an open health care system, it's an open labor market, it's trains that transport ukrainians to poland for free. this is 7 billion zlotys from the budget to finance citizens who have given - in a sense of great responsibility for the fate of the entire european union, not only the republic, not only ukraine - their homes, their property, their money. and all of this in the context of the lack of money from the european union for refugees in the european union. telling people that we're going to find money in unused funds is just irresponsible. shame on you!
madam president, commissioner, the fundamental values of the european union, as set out in article 2, must be respected by all member states. it is now clear that both hungary and poland, particularly through the actions of their governments, are not respecting these values and that is why the commission has initiated proceedings under article 7 and, on the other hand, parliament has initiated proceedings under the same article against hungary - one against poland and one against hungary - precisely in order to restore these values. we see every day, particularly in the case of hungary, a deterioration of the situation which is extremely worrying, especially in the light of the latest developments. in the case of poland, in particular, the question of the judiciary, disregard for the decisions of the court of justice of the european union, the disciplinary question and the question of the reinstatement of judges who have been unlawfully removed from the judiciary or whose connection with the exercise of judicial office has been terminated. the rule of law must be restored. it's a big deal to us. and it is essential that the council acts. the commission and parliament have done their part. the council has not yet done so and has all the conditions to do so, at least as regards article 7 (1), because for this only a qualified majority is needed and not only unanimity. that is the fundamental question. the council must act in such a way as to restore the rule of law throughout the european union.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. today is the day that proves how europa schuman dies, this great schuman, whose cause of beatification is underway. europe and the european project were built on the ruins of the second world war. why would you do that? so that there will be no more war. the commission has also received information from the russian authorities indicating that the russian authorities have not yet taken any action to address the concerns expressed by the russian authorities. this is a present for putin today. this debate and these licenses and other arms deliveries are a gift to putin. today, the european left, especially through the mouth of a german mep, is shouting in german to poland that we must be even more forceful. the germans have already made poland our home once! we are a proud nation and we will not submit to the euro-dictate. we've won eight elections in a row and you don't like it! that is what mr halicki said today, and that is what mr pons said. what's the action for? to overthrow the conservative government in poland, the government of values. if you shout "no to poland!" you mean "no to the polish people", who today have opened the door wide for ukraine and for the ukrainian people fleeing the fires of war. shame on you!
madam president! former us ambassador to poland georgette mosbacher recently said that the rule of law problems in poland were the result of russian disinformation and that both the eu and the us were uncritically accepting it. she thinks that poland should be apologised to now. not only do you not apologize to poland, you're organizing another debate and with this next debate you are also part of this russian disinformation. you talk so much about helping ukraine, and you're weakening poland by supporting russia. poland, which is helping ukraine the most. and you've been doing it consistently for a long time, even though it's been revealed that even after the annexation of crimea, you sold weapons to the butcher putin, who is now using them to commit genocide. this is not right! commissioner, you said today, among other things, that you were too naive about the putin regime. now in this mechanism of naivety, in my opinion, you trust the opposition and leftist circles on the issue of granting funds for the reconstruction of poland, illegally combining it with the conditionality mechanism, in which this issue you do not have treaty competence. the budget agreement cannot be used to exert political pressure and blackmail on member states. as a consequence, the actions of the cjeu lead to the imposition of the primacy of european law over national law... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, there is nothing more absurd, more kafkaesque and more grotesque than to raise this question at a time when hundreds, tens of thousands of refugees are pouring into poland and hungary, and these two countries are doing everything in their power to provide first aid. poland was the first country to give military aid, while here we were still wondering what to do. where are you going, how are you going to get to kiev, dear commissioner? you're going through poland, you're stopping there. can't you see how they work and help these people and take the first blow? and to blame poland and hungary right now, when in this room, putin's influence was growing through misguided climate policy, through making us dependent on russian gas. because here, when our energy was banned, it was russian gas that was helped, and everyone knows that. and this was the result of that policy. the problem is different, commissioner, and you know it. what bothers you is the policy of poland and hungary with regard to the family, to tradition, to family values, to family planning. these things annoy you, and that's why you do these shameful things. they must be stopped and this must end. long live the nation states. i'm not going to congratulate you, you know why.
madam president! dear leader of this parliament, of this european union! you've been very weak today in your attack on poland and hungary. you have absolutely no case. you have no knowledge of the polish legal system. you are hopeless in your attack on the humanitarian attitude of the poles and poles. we have taken in two and a half million ukrainian children and mothers. we have given 8 billion zlotys from the polish budget to help these people. and you want to cover the word "humanitarianism", the concept of humanitarianism with some vague concept of the rule of law. you don't understand, you don't know how to define the rule of law. you can't scare us with your money, nor can you buy poland! you will not buy, because what matters most to us is the honour that comes from the very essence of the european union, from the very essence of free countries of sovereign nations! and we're just not afraid of you, and you have no argument!
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, indeed, this was a very important debate, and i would like to thank this house and its members for organising it. the discussion was about the rule of law, which might sound as something theoretical, something for the lawyers, something academic. but for the european union, when there is a breach of rule of law or some level of uncertainty in one member state, it creates uncertainty for the whole europe. and believe me, i know what i speak about, because i work in this field, especially in the field of justice and human rights for already seven years. and i see this erosion of trust, which is creeping through european union and its member states. and i would quote ms kempa who spoke about schuman’s europe dying. i think that if one day schuman’s europe will die, it will be on the lack of trust between the members of the club. and i have to say, this is one of the serious threats we face as well, the lack of trust. because everything which is in the treaty is based on the strong prediction that the rule of law as a basic principle, as a governance system, works everywhere. that’s why we have to deal with this issue. a few words on hungary. i was following very closely what prime minister orbán was saying before the elections and after. and he repeated one sentence that it’s the highest interest of hungarian nation and of hungary to remain in the european union, that it’s the highest national interest. and so i think that also mr orbán understands that if they want to stay in this european house, they have to respect the rules of the house. and one of the rules of this house, that of the european union, to be precise, is that the winner after the elections does not take all. that the winner, the political winner does not take judiciary, does not take media, does not take the state administration. and these are the rules, because when we see the system where the winner takes all, we see autocracy. and this is what is not compatible with the european democratic system, what is foreseen in the treaty. and this is not about ideology. this is about governance system which is at stake. and i always repeat the same thing when we discuss the hungarian situation and article 7: this is not ideological. this has to be a serious debate about the level of respect for the rule of law as the condition for a functioning democratic system. a few words about poland. and here i would maybe more like to use my mother tongue, my language, which is czech language, because poland and polish people are very close to my heart, and i admire very much what poland and polish people are now doing in this crisis. and i remember myself very often speaking also with the polish representatives, with some of you. i was asking, what is the justice reform good for? who is it good for? what is the cost benefit of it? i tried to understand. and in the meantime, by really trying to understand and coming to some reasonable solution to see the independent judiciary in poland, i saw more and more that poland is weakening itself by this. and when i was in gdańsk last year, and it was in september, i remember myself saying, i fear of weak poland. i would like to see strong poland; also because maybe i have the instinct of the czech person who lived 23 years under russian occupation. the russian troops were in czechoslovakia from 1968 to 1991. this instinct is something which is not transferable, and that’s why i was always alarming: we need strong poland, because in the case something will happen – and also i felt that something might happen, because i saw through this information that russia is preparing for this invasion or for something, at least something damaging european interests – in such situation, we will need strong poland. so i call on everybody to come back to the table and to discuss what might be the way to make poland stronger. because i believe that what makes the state stronger is a well—functioning democratic system, including independent judiciary. sorry i have to be a little bit personal and emotional, because i really think that this is not a good combination, of the necessity of strong poland and the ongoing issues we discussed today. sorry, i am long, i am very sorry. a few words about the conditionality. i want to confirm what mr körner said, that the 4% is the statistics announced by olaf regarding hungary. the conditionality was not meant as a principle to be used against some concrete country. it was created for possible use in the future, when we see very serious breaches in the system of rule of law which might endanger the sound financial distribution of european money. and ms wiśniewska said here that it’s not legal. it is illegal; it was clearly said by the european court of justice in its ruling from 16 february, and we have been triggering now the procedure against hungary, because we believe that we have a strong body of evidence that there is insufficient prosecution and investigation of fraud and corruption. and we’ve also received answers from poland, which we are now analysing. and honestly, i still don’t understand why hungary and poland did not join the european public prosecutor’s office several years ago, especially for poland, where we always saw a very low level of fraud and corruption. and we always saw poland as a country which is managing well the funds. and so i didn’t understand because the eppo was created to increase the protection of eu money everywhere, not only in the countries which get massive cohesion funding, as is the case of poland. but this is what it is, poland and hungary are not in the eppo, and who understands the system, he maybe sees that if we had all countries under eppo, there would be no conditionality mechanism. sorry i was too long, but i had something to say, because i really welcome the opportunity of having this discussion, and hear the members of the european parliament and their views on the situation.
this conversation is over. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. poland has been involved in the article 7 teu procedure in the eu general affairs council for over four years, which is still not resolved. although the completion of the procedure should be a priority for all member states and eu institutions. a procedure whose end is not defined has a political cost, deepens divisions between member states and weakens citizens' trust in the eu. we see that the eu institutions have no interest in putting an end to this unfounded dispute. this debate is another example of the desire to keep this debate going and to escalate it. at the same time, poland has presented the rule of law situation comprehensively and answered all questions at five eu council hearings. the eu council was already kept informed about the state of the rule of law in poland in the state of play formula. the commission has also received comments from the polish authorities, which have not provided any further information. the eu's competences are defined by the principle of conferral, according to which the union acts only within the limits of the competences conferred upon it by the member states in the treaties in order to attain the objectives set out therein. the european union has no competence in the field of the organisation of justice in the member states.
in writing. if a football player deliberately kicks his opponent on the field, even though the fans are cheering and celebrating, he still gets a red card. even if two-thirds of the audience is rooting for the outlaw team. viktor orbán and fidesz refer to the newly acquired two-thirds power and otherwise continue to lie the so-called child protection law in connection with the rule of law mechanism launched due to the criminal activity of the government, when talking about a politically motivated brussels procedure. the majority of voters unquestionably support orbán's premiership, but voters have certainly not given him the mandate to continue state-level corruption, systematic theft of eu funds, or further dismantling of the rule of law framework. hungary is entitled to subsidies granted by the european union. hungary needs these resources. however, it should be recognised that the functioning of orbanistan is not compatible with the rules of the european community. the european union's objections are clear and unambiguous: we cannot access these funds at the moment, mainly because of corruption at the state level, in order to protect eu funds. viktor orbán and fidesz will have to recognize that a two-thirds majority does not mean the rule of law and in the interests of the hungarian people in the interests of the masses who voted for fidesz must change decisively and guarantee the fair use of eu funds, the restoration of the rule of law. this is clearly in hungary's interest.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the violation of the right to asylum and the return ban in the eu member states (2022/2588 ((rsp)). i would remind you that you are free to choose your seat in the chamber, except for the first two rows, which are reserved for group leaders. you can also request the allocation of speaking time and the issuing of a blue card through your voting machine after you have put your voting card in the machine. i would also remind you that the floor in the chamber is still used for speeches from the chair in the centre of the chamber, with the exception of speeches on request, speeches with a blue card and speeches on the agenda.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the right to asylum and the principle of non-refoulement are core principles of the european union. it is without a doubt that these strong principles are the reason why the european union is seen as a beacon of hope for people around the world. the european union received over half a million asylum applications last year. around 200 000 persons have been granted protection. we can be proud that europe upheld these principles during the arab spring, the syrian refugee crisis, and again throughout the takeover of the taliban in afghanistan. moreover, since 2015, eu resettlement programmes have provided safe and legal pathways to more than 95 000 vulnerable refugees. member states collectively pledged to resettle or admit on humanitarian grounds 65 000 persons, notably afghans, at risk in 2021 and 2022. this shows the union’s commitment to continue implementing policies fully grounded in european values and international law, and continues to do so. the outstanding solidarity showed towards the more than 4 million refugees fleeing the war in ukraine proves our commitment to uphold our duties towards those in need of asylum. this being said, i am not here to paint an idyllic picture or deny reality. the situation in europe is, of course, not perfect. any violation of the right to asylum is unacceptable. five months ago, you held a plenary debate about allegations of violent pushbacks at our eu borders. since then, there are new reports of violations of the right to asylum. in february, the unhcr recorded almost 540 incidents of reported informal returns by greece since the beginning of 2020. the unhcr, as well as many ngos, express concern about alleged pushbacks at the border between poland and belarus to which access is prevented, and allegations of fundamental rights violations at the lithuania-belarus border have been filed with the frontex fundamental rights officer. the fact that disciplinary procedures are undertaken in croatia for involvement in pushbacks is important. but, regretfully, reports of alleged pushbacks at the croatian border continue. like many of you, the commission is deeply concerned about these persistent reports. we must protect our eu external borders while upholding fundamental rights and the right to asylum. member states have the direct responsibility to ensure that this balance is respected. we welcome that national independent bodies are conducting investigations and i call on all member states to be transparent and proactive. in greece, the national transparency authority has been tasked with conducting investigations. one of them has recently been completed. in croatia, the independent monitoring mechanism issued an interim report in december 2021 on the monitoring visits conducted over the previous six months. the final report is expected in june of this year. the commission will analyse each final report and assess the efficiency of the authorities carrying out the investigations. the commission takes allegations of violations of the right to asylum very seriously. the commission is advocating for the establishment of independent and credible monitoring mechanisms in each member state, as we proposed as part of the future screening procedure. when solid evidence indicates a systematic breach of eu law, the commission will consider taking the necessary formal procedural steps. finally, we believe in a strong and credible european border and coast guard agency that plays a crucial role in supporting the member states in the effective but human control of eu external borders. this is why the commission has been working together with the management board of the agency to strengthen the governance of the agency. in particular, we monitor the implementation of the action plan adopted by the management board of frontex to follow up on the recommendations made in the 2021 reports of the frontex scrutiny working group and the eu ombudsperson. although there is still work to accomplish, progress has been made. the board appointed a new fundamental rights officer in june 2021 and a deputy fundamental rights officer in january of this year. 20 out of 40 fundamental rights monitors have been in function since mid—2021, and all 40 fundamental rights monitors are expected to be recruited by this summer. the serious incidents reporting mechanism, as well as the agency’s complaint mechanism, are more effective and improved by strengthening the role of the fundamental rights officer. the commission is fully mobilised to ensure that the right to seek asylum and the principle of non-refoulement are fully respected and safeguarded. to this end, i thank the european parliament for playing a key role in scrutinising and keeping this important topic on top of the agenda. we will continue to work with you to establish the facts, ensure transparency and protect the right to asylum.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, when it comes to violations of international law and human rights, we must be careful and have serious evidence. my country, greece, has managed since 2015 a large volume of migration flows in an exemplary manner and with absolute respect for human life, when there were countries of the european union that refused the solidarity due. the greek coast guard has provided search and rescue services to more than 320,000 migrants, while in the critical period since march 2020, based on official data from 1,500 maritime operations, there were fortunately minimal human losses. yet my country is receiving baseless and unproven accusations of alleged push-backs, fake news and methodical attacks. the national independent transparency authority, in march 2022, in its report on complaints, explicitly states 'among other things' that national, international and european legislation has been and is being fully respected, without exceptions. similar findings were also made by the official mission of the committee on civil liberties in november 2021, in the presence of president juan fernando lópez aguilar. as a greek mep, i am proud that greece has been proven to be an effective guardian of the union's external borders, with respect for human life and international law. the real enemies of migrants have an identity, they are those who organize the trafficking rings and exploit human suffering and those who cover them, making millions. they are the ones who traffic in people by joining criminal organizations. but there are also those who, for the sake of economic and political interests, like turkey, consciously share propaganda with fake news, spreading unrestrained lies. the union and each member state have an obligation to examine, in full transparency, any serious complaint of violation of rights. but they also have a duty to protect the countries that are deliberately targeted, by avoiding making unreasonable and frivolous accusations based on no evidence.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner dalli, international humanitarian law is an integral part of the sources of european law (article 6 of the treaty on european union). the guiding principle of the right to asylum is non-refoulement, that is, non-refoulement, and even less violent or forcible refoulement, of people who, fleeing from despair or from conflict zones, try to reach the door of the european union. and so it is not only sad, but outrageous and unacceptable that we continue to debate the veracity of allegations of pushbacks - violent pushbacks at the border - often in violation of the human rights of people in desperate situations, particularly those on the high seas left to their own devices - allegations that should be thoroughly investigated by the commission. that is why this european parliament has strengthened the mandate in the field of fundamental rights of the agencies involved: frontex and the european union agency for asylum. in addition, we must add that the work will not be complete until we have secured once and for all legal and safe pathways, including humanitarian visas, for all those who are trying to reach the european union fleeing conflict zones or in desperate situations, whose dignity is no less than that of the four million ukrainian women and children whom we welcome.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. i see that the left is taking the logic that we should accept everyone: open the borders generally and accept whoever we can, but not to all european countries, but to the poorer countries in the east, because we have already locked up our own richer countries. for example, the netherlands, because here the dutch member of parliament says to take everyone. and how many ukrainians has the netherlands taken in and how many are ready to take in these real refugees, refugees from ukraine? how much can he pay? because i remember another dutchman, mr. timmermans, saying in 2016 that any country that doesn't accept refugees should pay 250,000 euros for each refugee. and that's a negative, right? and now when poland, for example, takes in refugees, it says, "no, 250,000". now we're not paying anything. how come you were able to pay erdogan 8 billion euros to keep refugees in some vile tents? you paid him to do it. and now that poland is taking in more refugees in its own homes, not in sordid tents, than you have taken in in the entire european union since 2015, you don't want to pay anything. well, i'm asking you, how is it, commissioner? do these refugees at the turkish border have any different value than those who are welcomed into polish homes? i don't even expect you to respond to that in any way. this hypocrisy of yours is legendary. the dutch ambassador will come to me and tell me that we should immediately take in more refugees, but to poland, not to the netherlands, because we in the netherlands will spend our money on an exclusive life. and the poles, the poorest, pay for the refugees. but we want more refugees. enough of this hypocrisy!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for years we have been listening to the lies of the european left that hungary is not helping refugees. the present war shows the absurdity of these claims. we help people in need, but we reject illegal economic migration and the violation of our borders. this atrocity makes a very clear distinction between people fleeing war and economic migrants who are aggressive and attack border guards very often. as we have said on several occasions, they should not be confused with genuine aid. of course, hungary, along with the other countries of central europe, are now helping those in need. hungary has already taken in and assisted more than 600 000 refugees. in times of peace we can have all kinds of political debates, but in a time like this, when central europe is experiencing the biggest migration crisis in its history, petty ideological debates must be put aside.
madam president, a huge wave of migration has taken the eastern border of the european union by surprise. and so it's not just greece or the mediterranean anymore, but it's also people fleeing russian aggression, and they've become weapons against the european union in the hands of putin. we have thousands of other refugees here in the european union. and frontex is an agency of the european union, which we have entrusted with the security and protection of the external borders, we have strengthened its authority and budget. it should therefore help member states to manage migration - including illegal migration - and to combat smuggling and trafficking of people, but it must also protect those human rights borders. the security and protection of the external borders go hand in hand with solidarity and compliance with the rules. so let's remember these rules and set them up so that they are understandable to all those involved, whether it's frontex, the member states, civil society, or the asylum seekers themselves. that is an appeal to the commission. last fall, i visited lesbos and greece, and i have to say that the greek government has made tremendous progress. it has set stricter rules, but at the same time ensured that people seeking international protection are received with dignity, that asylum procedures are expedited and that there is a return policy. i think that in the current crisis, we see how important it is that we have an instrument of international protection for these refugees. and i want to remind you that there are non-profit organizations that help these people who find themselves in need, in the asylum process. i would like to mention the names of at least two important people in greece - metadras and iliakydis - who deserve our help, and in the czech republic, the refugee aid organisation, which deserves our financial support and our thanks.
i have to say, madam president, pushbacks at europe's external borders by eu member states are now a common and systematic practice. however, the principle of non-refoulement constitutes the basic protection for refugees under international human rights law. why does the commission, as guardian of the treaties, do nothing about these constant violations of the law? the double standard we are witnessing at the polish border is also hard to bear. on the border with ukraine, the polish government rightly appreciates the solidarity of polish civil society. and it is only to be welcomed that the feeling of solidarity and the acts of solidarity of the polish people are so strong here. but at the same time, pushbacks at the polish-belarusian border by border officials continue. people are dying in the streets, and the european union is watching. the eu's values and rights must apply equally to all people on the move. the commission must therefore initiate rule of law proceedings against the states concerned. we cannot afford to have lawless spaces on europe's external borders.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot denounce the refoulement of asylum seekers without distinguishing between two very different situations facing the member states of the european union. when genuine refugees are seeking asylum, these states show a great sense of hospitality. we saw him with the ukrainian refugees. on the other hand, when turkey or belarus exploit migrants to organise our migration flood, it is understandable that the frontline states, such as poland or greece, refuse to let them in. instead of attacking these two member states, the european union should thank them for defending our civilization. because if we give in today to the few thousand migrants who come from other continents abusing the right of asylum, we will encourage millions more to do the same in the medium term. personally, i don't want to do that. between resistance and submission, i choose resistance. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card.)
the answer is 'blue card'. i have spoken about a very specific situation, in which states exploit migrants by the hundreds. i have cited two examples, namely belarus and turkey, for bringing migrants to france. and it's obvious that in this case, they're probably not asylum seekers. and therefore, i think our role is to negotiate with the countries that send these migrants to stop such actions. because if we give in, well, we'll disappear.
madam president, we cannot have a situation at the eu borders where pushbacks are structural, systematic and brutal. refugees are left to freeze to death. they are pushed out to sea in greece with risk to their lives. they are brutalised at the croatian border. all this is true and the commission knows it. everyone knows it. even the frontex director who lies to our face knows it. so why is nothing happening? why are there no infringement procedures? why are you financing refugee prisons on the greek islands? why are you not spending that money on decent and dignified reception conditions for refugees? why are we not showing the kind of solidarity that we are now showing the ukrainian refugees? and it’s the right thing to do because it is who we should be as europeans. when somebody seeks protection in europe, we should try their demand for asylum and we should give protection – that’s who we should be. in greece, on the polish border with belarus, and the polish border with ukraine. this is what we have to establish now and pushbacks have no place in 2022. so, please, commission, you have to do your job now.
madam president! i would like to draw attention to and also clarify the issue of refugees on the polish-belarusian border. to call these people economic refugees is to ignore where they come from. these are people from afghanistan, from iraq, from syria, from yemen, and these are people who are fleeing from war, from persecution. those who lost their lives - the 24 people who were pushed into the forest - are people of the same nationality. ten women lost their children because they were repeatedly thrown into the forest to freeze, so a lot of people died on this border. i would like very much for us to look at the situation there and not accuse these people of wanting to improve their lives, although everyone has the right to do so.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, free movement is one of the fundamental values of the european union, and the schengen area is a historic achievement, an expression of the unity and cooperation of the member states. the size of this value was highlighted during the covid pandemic, when most states imposed strict controls at internal borders, limiting free movement. the existence of a mechanism to verify and monitor the implementation of the schengen acquis is absolutely indispensable, as is its adaptation to new realities, and in this context i congratulate the rapporteur on her work. yes, because we are talking about responsibility in relation to the schengen area. we must admit that, unfortunately, there is a double standard today in the schengen area, in that romania and bulgaria are kept out of it. as early as 2011, romania was recognised as meeting all the criteria for accession, being an important provider of stability and security by defending the external borders of the european union and maintaining security in the wider black sea region. today, in wartime, at the borders of the european union, the romanian authorities have once again demonstrated their ability to manage thousands of refugees on a daily basis, preserving the sustainability of the european union. that is why i believe that keeping romania out of the schengen area is deeply immoral and unjust, and its accession appears as a necessity and must take place immediately.
mr. chairman, please! i was born in 1982, and i remember the long lines at the border. traveling freely in europe has been a dream for generations - a dream that has come true. and it's because we started to get along in europe and to think in terms of community. let's be proud of that! let's remember that cooperation benefits us all and let's continue to improve the quality of life of the citizens that's why they chose us. it is good that the commission has proposed solutions to monitor the functioning of the schengen area. effective controls at external borders and the absence of controls at internal borders are crucial. it is good that the report addresses the issue of compliance with fundamental rights, because there are people behind these rights who need our help and who need to be treated with dignity. and no more problems of cross-border workers! we remember the beginning of the pandemic and the chaos that we managed to overcome. the union is the values and quality of life that the schengen area symbolises. let's take care of this european home of ours!
madam president! the russian aggression against ukraine is provoking strong reactions in the societies of the union towards the citizens of that country. we cannot see all russians as aggressors or as supporting this aggression. there is an opposition in russia, there are citizens with whom we will and should talk in the future. the russian government, under putin, has severely restricted freedom of the press and assembly. for the slightest criticism of government policy, for the slightest protest against the war, russian citizens face 15 years in prison. but thousands of people are taking to the streets. in protests in over 60 russian cities alone, nearly 5,000 people were arrested in early march. russians are protesting in different ways, for example by placing signs in supermarkets, at the price points of products, informing about the aggression against ukraine. he called alexei navalny to protest against the war in ukraine. russia and those responsible for the deaths of civilians in ukraine and the destruction of towns and villages must be punished. let's remember that not everyone who is silent is guilty.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. it is estimated that there are between 10 and 12 million roma in europe, of whom about 6 million live in the european union. the most frequently reported problems affecting the roma community are social exclusion, segregation, discrimination, low income, poor housing conditions. according to a 2016 study by the european agency for fundamental rights, about 63% of roma youth are not in education, training or employment. that's one of the biggest problems. the european parliament, in its resolution on the implementation of the roma integration strategy in 2020, cites the lack of political will and anti-gypsyism as the reasons for the poor situation of roma in europe. i think the reasons are more complex, that the programmes that are being prepared need to be more responsive to the needs of roma communities. in my country, poland, the roma number about 20,000 people, so the small community is a well-integrated group. there's no housing segregation or discrimination in the job market. access to education and health care is guaranteed. the association of roma in poland is active in scientific, cultural and publishing activities, although there are of course also problems. in my hometown, gorzów wielkopolski, there is an annual international gypsies' romane dyves team meetings, which are organized with the support of local authorities, government, local media. i invite you to this festival. on funding: support from the fead and the esf, from the european regional development fund is a legitimate action to combat discrimination against roma and should be targeted. and it's worth focusing on fighting child poverty, early education, improving child welfare. the situation of marginalised roma in europe must change and it is high time. this must be the task of governments, local authorities, but also of roma communities. and we have to ask ourselves, why are we still losing this fight?
madam president! we're about to vote on a resolution that will affect the commission's draft "right to repair". we have no doubt that the possibility of users being able to repair their own equipment is being extended, but we must be aware that only some consumers will take this step because of the high cost of the service. we agree that the biggest problem from the consumer's point of view is the availability and the cost of repairs, which are often close to the cost of buying a new device. unfortunately, in my view, our text does not address this problem, and reducing the barriers to the flow of repair services within the common market is, in my view, the key to the success of this commission initiative and to the enjoyment by consumers of a longer product life. in a word, we have to prepare a solution that is not a dead solution. i would like to ask my colleagues today not to make the right to repair a duty and compulsion to repair. it is important to seek additional incentives to encourage consumers to repair products, but without limiting the consumer rights provided for in the guarantee period. we must also be careful that our proposals do not lead to automatic price increases for products which are prohibited by regulation. in times of covid, rising energy prices and the war that putin has started, many europeans already have a problem with buying cheaper appliances and access to parts. the ecr made the appropriate amendments to both of these points. i'm counting on you to back them up.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. fellow workers! in december, the committee on employment and social affairs held a hearing on mental health in the digital post-pandemic world. this is a very important and timely subject, though not new. digitization and remote work is a double-edged sword. on the one hand, they give employees more autonomy, the possibility to work from home and, in theory, save time, but on the other hand, work and family life are blurred and working hours are often longer. isolation and lack of social contact have left their mark on mental health across all age groups. social contacts have proven invaluable. they're irreplaceable. the physical aspect has also emerged - lack of physical activity, lack of access to sporting facilities, and sometimes even a curfew have contributed to the deterioration of mental health. the rights of workers, including the right to disconnect, should be respected. safety and health rules are equally important. in remote work, lack of movement and long hours at a desk, often without the proper home office equipment, carry the risk of musculoskeletal disorders, obesity and diabetes. in the area of healthcare, access should be provided not only to primary care physicians and specialists, which is often scandalously limited or impossible in some member states during a pandemic, but also to psychologists and therapists for support. investing in better working conditions, better management of stressful situations will increase productivity and improve the well-being of workers. well, you can counteract workplace burnout or anxiety. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
mr. chairman, please! the idea of introducing transnational lists of candidates for members of the european parliament is contrary to article 14 of the treaty on european union, which explicitly states that member states receive the mandates. this article states precisely that no member state may be allocated more than 96 seats. the introduction of a system of elections throughout the union would therefore be in flagrant breach of the treaty. if one country receives more than 96 seats, it further distorts the diversity of the european union and consequently favours the large countries. this is a proposal that grants extra-treaty powers, further advances the federalist agenda and violates the treaty principle of subsidiarity. the motion also raises outrage for other reasons: namely, its provision that every citizen over the age of 18 should be able to vote and stand for election, with the recommendation that the minimum voting age be set at 16. do you think 16-year-olds are emotionally mature enough to choose who represents them in the european union? as ecr, we oppose this resolution. as a member of law and justice, i also do not support this resolution and we all do not support it.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. my question is this: since you represent renew as a very important political force in the european parliament, i assume that you have had discussions with experts in the fields of developmental psychology, child psychology, youth psychology. i was gonna ask you about that age. do you really think, and do you have any evidence, that this group of people who will have the right to vote will use it skillfully and responsibly? i'd just like you to give me an example of the experts you used to propose that voting age.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to ask you a question and ask for a definite answer. this is article 14 of the treaty on european union. will this article not simply be demolished by the introduction of an additional european constituency? so please tell me - i am addressing myself to the commissioner - whether this new ordinance does not run counter to the european treaties.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 3 may 2022.
the next item is the report by mrs simone schmiedtbauer, drawn up on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the eu action plan for organic farming (2021/2239 (ini)) (a9-0126/2022). i would like to remind you that you have the freedom to choose your seat, with the exception of the first two rows, which are allocated to the group chairmen. you will be able to apply for the 'catch-the-eye' and the 'blue card' procedures after you have inserted your ballot card in the reader. i would also like to remind you that in the chamber the speakers take the floor from the main speaker except for questions from the chamber, questions raised by raising the blue card and requests for compliance with the rules of procedure.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 3 may 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr karol karski, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the persecution of minorities on grounds of their beliefs or religion (2021/2055 (ini)) (a9-0071/2022). i would remind you that there is a free choice of seats, except for the first two rows, which are allocated to the group chairman. i would also remind you that you will be able to apply for the withdrawal of your vote and the blue card procedure after you have inserted your ballot card in the reader.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic and the associated school closures have made the situation of a large number of children much worse. it has put many of them at risk of deteriorating mental health, marginalisation, isolation, and the erosion of some of their educational achievements and the loss of their motivation to continue their education. at the same time, the negative impact of the pandemic on the economy is associated with a real risk of lower education spending. in this context, the unesco paris declaration calling for investment in the future of education is crucial. it requires broad support and the conversion of the police into effective action. on the other hand, the pandemic has forced us to step away from our routines and look for new solutions. and we can use this painful lesson to reform our rigid curricula and education systems. appreciating non-formal and informal learning, mentoring, volunteering and supporting the development of key skills can help to better link education to labour market requirements. the development of modern information and communication technologies also creates new opportunities, provided that they are widely available and that their use does not lead to exclusion and isolation.
in writing. women are more likely to experience difficulties entering or returning to the labour market, particularly after a break in childbearing and parenting that often makes their skills and qualifications outdated. the self-employment of women can be seen as a strategy for those who cannot find another form of employment and thus a way to earn money, or as evidence of an 'entrepreneurial spirit' and a desire to be their own boss. for many women, entrepreneurship has become a way to break the glass ceiling, overcome financial problems, achieve greater job satisfaction and freedom of action, which is manifested in the ability to set their own rules. support should be given to entrepreneurship programmes targeting women, their education and skills development. access to funds for women entrepreneurs and self-employed women and the removal of administrative barriers to business creation are also of paramount importance. women's entrepreneurship also supports the diversification of economic activities by stimulating innovation and diversity in management, production and marketing practices, and products and services. the author of the report emphasises that empowering women entrepreneurs and investors makes economic, business and ethical sense. this issue therefore needs to be addressed as it is crucial for creating new jobs, stimulating the economy and economic recovery in europe, and for strengthening the eu's competitiveness.
madam marshal, the high chamber. artificial intelligence is a wonderful invention, but like any invention, it can be used for good or for evil. it could be for cancer detection or surveillance, safer driving or autonomous killing, including with weapons of mass destruction. it can expand our knowledge or create deepfakes and manipulate entire societies. as a union, we are not the leader of this technology, but leaders do not always do it right. russia, for example, used bots to create or support the anti-vaccine movement during the last pandemic. in china, the system is so advanced that you can get social points for paying your bills on time, for crossing lanes. the whole of life can be regulated by points like we have in europe for driving a car. it was a nightmare. in the united states, these technologies are owned by large corporations that make enormous profits and have such influence on the united states congress that it's almost impossible to regulate them in a meaningful way. so we in this chamber are the only hope for mankind to regulate this technology in a meaningful way, to balance the interests of industry with the human need to live in privacy, to be accountable for our words and simply to live in a civilized society. we need more investment in this technology, but we also need better regulation. and so i would like to congratulate the authors of our report.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president ladies and gentlemen! i'll start with a quote, words that were spoken by the former us ambassador to poland two weeks after russia's aggression against ukraine, admitting in the same interview that she herself often disagreed with the polish government. i quote: "the eu is currently dealing with the rule of law in poland and is debating sanctions. it's time to say it out loud! as for the rule of law problem, a lot of what was coming out in the west was the result of russian disinformation. both the eu and the us welcomed it uncritically,' ms mosbacher said. today marks more than two months since putin's attack. in that time, we have seen the heroism of europeans and the humiliation of europe's elites. i am thinking of the buses and trucks with german, italian or belgian registration numbers that you would have seen on polish motorways when they were transporting humanitarian aid to ukraine. i also think of french and german politicians who were on the phone with a war criminal and racing ideas on how to block or circumvent sanctions against him. what was poland doing during that time? proud poles, without financial support from brussels, have taken in millions of refugees from war-torn areas, mostly to their homes. and the polish government hasn't said a word about relocation. our country has been at the forefront of humanitarian and military aid to our neighbors, and our politicians have been raising the conscience of europe's elites. prime minister morawiecki's words about the nord stream pipeline being filled with the blood of innocent people will surely go down in history. why did you plan this debate about our rule of law?! or do you want to drown your burning conscience? the shame that your journalists and citizens remind you of every day? over a million ukrainians were kidnapped and sent to russia, often to siberia. stalin did the same thing to the poles 80 years ago. and all of this is happening right in front of us. what are you guys doing? european politicians? politicians who have the audacity to lecture the polish government today. your green line is to be powered by russian gas. your leaders are urging your companies not to close their businesses in russia because you want the dirty, bloodstained rubles that you're going to exchange for the supposedly clean euro. you'll never get that stain off your honor. history will remember you for this. you may try to scold the poles, but it is our country that is on the lips of the free world today. much has been said about the generosity of poles in providing humanitarian aid and in welcoming refugees. here's another quote from the last few days about the government's actions: poland's ruling pis party has gained some breathing space and prestige thanks to its tough policy towards russia, after years of being under the microscope of brussels. this is a prestigious spanish newspaper, pointing out that our government was right on many issues and today it is using this to show what is really happening in our country. today is an important day for poles, a national holiday. it was established in memory of the constitution of 3 may, 231 years ago, when poland was reforming itself to avoid german-russian annexation, when poland was an example for europe, introducing the first constitution on our continent, a constitution that gave many freedoms to the weakest, who were exploited by serfdom, a form of slavery that was then widespread in europe. i would like to ask the french: how would you feel if on july 14th someone tried to teach you? he was debating the police's brutal response to the yellow vest protests and trying to blame it on your government? then why are you spoiling the holiday of the poles? why are you trying to take away our right to be proud europeans? on the day of our most important national holiday! this may 3rd constitution was the model for your constitutions. today you forget that. and i will end with the words: long live poland! long live the europe! but a europe based on true values, those derived from the old and new testaments, greek philosophy, roman law, not neo-marxist, leftist babble.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, has anyone seen the representatives of the french presidency? has anyone seen them? well, actually, they're not here. we're just having a little debate about democracy and the rule of law, but they're not here. so if you see them, tell them to come, it'll be really interesting. we all know by now, friends, what is happening in poland and hungary. the attacks on democracy are far reaching. hungary can no longer be considered a real democracy. they are institutionalizing a view where the majority has unlimited powers to undermine judicial independence, close down media and media pluralism, take control over higher education, silence civil society and, not least, attack people's fundamental rights. if i could maybe ask my colleagues to sit down more quietly so that i can finish my speech. (the president asked the members to be quiet when taking their seats) i am sure very many are interested because its about democracy and the rule of law so keep your ears open. with this attack on democracy, who pays the highest price? where is it felt the most? it's women who see their rights attacked, it's my lesbian sisters and my lgbtq community who are scapegoated in several of the eu member states, and in poland and hungary. it is ethnic minorities, it's roma and migrants who are discriminated against and targeted for hate speech. it is nothing new for some of us to be attacked by anti-democratic and ultra-conservative political forces. it always hurts, it always minimizes people's lives and it is always potentially very dangerous but, when the attack appears in a context where the institutions and the public courts are not functioning, then it's a totally different story. when it's sometimes even persecuted by the state, it's a different story. then it is statesponsored persecution, and we are in europe 2022. think about that for a second. and yet, commission, you do so little. the council isn't even here apparently. how is it possible? and don't think that citizens don't see you. they see you fumbling with your toolbox, they see you stumble and they see you failing and falling. so now it's up to the governments. you have to meet in the council and get recommendations forward. the commission has to stop the funding of undemocratic countries. you have to prioritize bringing member states to court for breaches of democracy and the rule of law. and, if needed, you have to create new tools. friends, democracy in the eu is broken. either you're on the team of those who say it has to be fixed and we'll do everything we can to fix it, or you're on the slippery slope of resignation, of accepting the authoritarian drift, content with your toolbox and your fumbling. i know which team i'm on. i'm on democracy and the rule of law and fundamental rights. i stand with all those who fight out there, in hungary, poland and other member states, to keep up this fight for all our rights, for all our values.
madam president, dear colleagues, thank you very much for the floor. the article 7 procedure has been going on against hungary for almost four years without any tangible results. there’s a clear reason for this: the accusations are not factual; they are not of a legal nature but clearly and only political. hungary has come under heavy criticism for years because we stand up for our sovereignty and right to decide on issues that do not concern the european union. it all started with the migration crisis back in 2015, when we maintained that only hungarians can decide who to let into their own country. hungary, in fact, was the first country to differentiate between a refugee and an economic migrant. the left—wing liberal forces propagating the new religion, multiculturalism and open society, à la george soros, did not like this policy, so they launched a political offensive against my country. then they criticised us because for us, marriage is between a man and a woman. what is more, the father is a man and the mother is a woman. now, even if you don’t like this, you have to accept that it’s only hungarians who can decide about these issues in hungary and for hungarians. more recently, we have come under attack because we have chosen to protect our children. we made it clear that it is the parents’ right to determine what kind of sexual education they want their children to receive. you know, our children will always be more important for us than to conform to the latest gender madness spreading in the west. now these significant political and ideological differences have also motivated many other unfounded accusations. these include the ridiculous claim that there is no press freedom in hungary. well, in reality, hungary today has a more balanced press and media landscape than in many other places in europe. what hurts you so much is that, unlike in western europe, in hungary right—wing, conservative, christian democratic media exists and flourishes. as for the accusations of an all encompassing corruption. well, if this was true, the significant and constant economic growth, exceeding the eu average for over nine years now, would have been impossible. this spectacular economic success has benefited the whole country, the entire society, and not only a few businessmen. otherwise, the government would not be re—elected over and over again with such a large majority. so it is high time to stop these absurd attacks and respect the right of hungarians to their own country. we do not want you to dictate to us our values and convictions, thank you very much, we can define them for ourselves. 18 years ago, when we joined the european union, it was clear to us where we wanted to belong after four decades of soviet domination – to a community of freedom that respected classical european values, traditions and was based on mutual respect. since then, brussels – and especially this parliament – has increasingly become a self—righteous postmodern witch—hunt club, that wants to impose a radical and narrow ideology on everyone else. if somebody resists, like we do, then you start the blackmailing, the sanctions and the aggressive attacks. we still believe in a europe which will respect each other’s similarities and differences. i therefore demand: stop once and for all the poisonous and shameful attacks against hungary and poland!
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank you, at the end of this debate, for having really put these article 7 procedures on the agenda. they must also remain on the council's agenda as long as the causes which triggered these procedures persist. it is important that we can continue this work, that we can deal satisfactorily with the criticisms that we have made, whether the commission or parliament, of poland and hungary. i believe that the procedures help to maintain political pressure, and the commission will remain ready to provide the council with all the information on developments in the situation, but also to participate in all the hearings. i've also said that we are ready to use all the tools at our disposal. and i want to say, because i have listened to the comments about the way to organise infringement proceedings, in my portfolio and certainly also about the rule of law, we have introduced more infringement proceedings since the beginning of the mandate of this commission than before. i know that there are some studies about a global approach on all infringement proceedings, but i want to insist that in the rule of law i know your interest for the rule of law in the rule of law we have introduced more infringement proceedings than before. i also want to insist on the fact that we also have discussions, i said on conditionality and on all the elements, but also on the recovery and resilience plan. you know that we are until now in discussions with hungary and poland about their own recovery and resilience plan. we did not agree for the moment about the content of those plans. i want to conclude, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the remarks i have heard concerning the situation in ukraine. since 24 february, of course, it has been necessary for the commission, as well as for all the institutions and the member states, to react with sanctions, with support for ukraine, and also with real solidarity with all the member states faced with the flow of refugees. and we will continue to do that. we need to express our solidarity with ukraine, but also with the member states having a very large number of refugees on their territories. but i want to be clear, i want to say that a fortiori because we are asking russia to have full respect for a rules-based international order, we need to continue to do the job at home in the eu. we need to be very aware about any possible breach of the rule of law. we need to be very attentive to a correct functioning of a rulebased order in the eu if we want to be credible when we ask others to follow the rules, like russia and ukraine. if they are not, then we would impose sanctions on ukraine. if we have problems in the eu, we need also to react. so i thank you for your attention for such an important debate and for your participation in such a number to the discussions about the rule of law.
thank you, commissioner. the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions to wind up this debate expired at 10.00. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 5 may 2022. we can now proceed with the voting. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the socialist delegation has voted in favour of this resolution as it shows a genuine commitment to make significant progress in the ongoing article 7 (1) teu procedures, in line with its obligations under the treaties. at parliament's request, hearings are not organised in a regular, structured and open manner. we urge future presidencies to organise hearings regularly and at least once per presidency. we ask the council to ensure that hearings under article 7 (1) teu also address new developments, including those related to violations of fundamental rights. we call on the commission and the council to refrain from approving the national plans of poland and hungary under the recovery and resilience mechanism until they have fully complied with all country-specific recommendations under the european semester and have implemented all relevant judgments of the court of justice of the eu and the european court of human rights. the commission's conclusions should constitute sufficient grounds for the council to adopt recommendations in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 7 (1) teu.
in writing. once again, we hear from the european commission that, in the absence of progress in restoring the rule of law in poland, the commission is concerned that the commission will continue to follow up the proposed legislative changes. the monitoring, the watching, the analyzing. once again, we see that the commission lacks the determination and will to act. meanwhile, in poland, non-suspended judges continue to be persecuted and the foundations of the judicial system are undermined. independent media are under attack, and the basic human rights of women, people with disabilities, and lgbtiq people are being violated. the union is a community of values. we cannot choose which values and principles we will follow and which we will not. we must show solidarity and support the countries that have taken in refugees from ukraine, but we cannot turn a blind eye to the violation of the rule of law by the governments of these countries. we're running out of time and we don't want to hear any more of your concerns. it is necessary that the commission urgently implement the conditionality mechanism, while ensuring that its application does not affect the citizens of those countries. the funds must not go to the perpetrators of the infringements, but should go to local governments and ngos.
madam president, i would grant the nationalist side of this debate that the process of the conference has not been perfectly democratic. but i’d just like to remind you that the whole idea of the conference was to open up the process to unelected people, to the kind of people that we don’t normally talk to. so that was deliberate. and if your supporters were less active or less persuasive in that process, well, that is your mistake and your failure. but don’t blame the process. we’ve been through a lot as the european union in recent years – the financial crisis, the refugee crisis, brexit, the pandemic and now war. and some of you have argued – correctly, in my view, that we need to take a strong stance. we need energy transformation and financial help for energy transformation. we need strong sanctions on an aggressive power, on mr putin. that we need energy security, including a gas union, purchasing of gas together. and at the same time, you say the eu should go back to being a union of fatherlands, a free trade area – some of your supporters have even asked for abolishing this parliament. i have to tell you, these ideas are not compatible. you have to choose, if you will the ends you have to will the means. personally, i want a union strong enough that can not only stand up to putin, but send him to hell. and therefore, i believe we need not a superstate, but a super power. and therefore, these proposals should be considered seriously. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card intervention)
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. i wanted to say that of course dialogue is always better than turning your back on each other and discussion is always worth discussing simply. but i wanted to ask you because you were a minister and you once made the accusation against germany that the germans are not doing enough, are too passive in the european union. later, your colleague from the epp, donald tusk, said that german governments were a blessing in the european union under the leadership of chancellor angela merkel. i have a question to you: after the reform you are proposing after this conference, are you not afraid that the union will make the same mistakes as it did? because we're at war, that's what we all agree on. we have a great war drama. someone is to blame for this war. do you have no such fears? or, if you will, may the lord indicate some mechanism that will prevent such a dramatic error.
blue-card reply. – i would like to thank the honourable member for recalling my speech in berlin in 2011, where i indeed said that i feared german power less than i feared germany’s inactivity. and you know what? it seems to fit the current attitude of the german coalition to the war in ukraine. no human institution will be perfect, but when the facts change, i change my view. what do you do? therefore, we need institutions that would protect people’s identity but enable us to work more effectively together. i think some of those proposals do that.
in writing. the conference on the future of europe could be seen as an opportunity for a truly pan-european debate, expressing different visions of the future of europe, including those opposed to further strengthening the power of brussels at the expense of the powers of the nation states. but it soon proved to be a political tool in the hands of european federalists. it is not a platform for the exchange of ideas on the future of the union, but a tool of manipulation to push for an agenda of empowerment of the eu institutions and more centralisation of power in the eu and a reduction of the role of the member states. the aim of the conference is to legitimize the political programme for a centralised, federal union without changing the treaties, and thus bypassing democratic procedures and thus bypassing the democratic will of the citizens. the principles enshrined in the eu's founding treaties, including subsidiarity, proportionality, delegated powers and representative democracy, cannot be reconciled with the social engineering we have known all too well in eastern europe since the days of communism. we cannot agree with this vision of the future of europe. the transfer of increasing power to the european level has further distanced europeans from the eu institutions, rather than bringing the union closer to its citizens. the ecr group therefore withdrew from the conference on the future of europe. participating in her work would legitimize her disturbing assumptions.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the current brutal russian attack on ukraine, the kremlin has simultaneously stepped up its hybrid warfare tactics, including a large-scale disinformation campaign. this is another example of how digital technology has become a very important part of our lives. there is no doubt that the current russian regime, by seeking to change borders and take away sovereignty from other countries, is threatening the stability and security not only of its neighbours, but of the entire continent. the european union can no longer turn a blind eye to this threat. i would also like to express my disappointment at the absence of the french presidency from such an important debate. after the presidential election, shouldn't we have tried harder? and what we need right now is not more phone calls to putin, but more decisive action to increase our ability to prevent hybrid threats from russia in areas such as state terrorism, cyberattacks, and energy security. further steps are also needed to strengthen cooperation between the european union and nato in countering the mass attacks of hacking groups. i believe that together with our allies, we will be able to stand up to putin's totalitarian drive.
mr president, according to some analysts, after the russian criminal invasion of ukraine, cyberattacks against the eu and its member states have increased by 1000%. it goes without saying that these numbers must represent a wake—up call for us. the number one priority must be to pursue strategic autonomy and technological serenity, pledging adequate resources to this end. in particular, a shift of approach is really required. we can no longer focus only on hardware capabilities, but we need to include ambitious projects on the research and development of specific software. otherwise, we will always remain dependent on third parties. second, we should insist on those success stories which already exist, such as enisa, whose role should be further enhanced. at the same time, and even more in line with the prerogative of our house, we need to streamline cyber diplomacy with the final aim to create a safe, reliable and open cyberspace worldwide. the cyber domain represents the apotheosis of interconnection among eu member states and, even more than in other fields, there are no individual countries that can boast a satisfactory and independent level of security. let’s make this field the pilot for further european integration.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. you want peace, prepare for war. old, but very current. the european union's defence policy must be our priority now. we were very fortunate, the president of the united states is a true democrat and he took on the difficult role of coordinator and leader during the russian attack on ukraine. but it won't always be like this. we must be prepared as the european union for challenges and attacks, both military and cyber. putin or any other dictator does not need to attack with weapons to cause chaos and destroy the european union or individual countries. the brexit campaign, the cambridge analytica affair, the unclear connections between the ordo iuris. there's a lot of evidence that the kremlin and their cyber-macs are behind this. let's also remember the troll factories that are responsible for misinformation, hate speech and the undermining of democratic values. we have to be ready for these challenges and these traps. we need to build a system to respond to these mass cyber attacks and russian trolling on the internet.
mr. chairman, please! we must move away from the dream that we can build european security with russia, with russia as it is. if with russia, then of course with a democratically changed regime. i ask you, do we have the courage to change the regime in russia? like many here, he has the courage and the will to change the government in poland. we must have the ability to read russian intentions and policies correctly. after chechnya, georgia, crimea, most of europe couldn't recognize the russian intentions. so we need technical capacity, but above all political will and a realistic view of russia. and knowledge. political will, knowledge, is the need to know about the tsar, communism and modern russia. we're often subjected to fake news, to propaganda, even in this room. technical competence. you don't need inventions to invent the wheel or the powder, you just need to replicate the experience of radio free europe, radio liberty or voice of america.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. first of all, we need to fight against misinformation about the countries that are helping ukraine the most, such as poland. and it's characteristic that you attack poland on the day of the constitution, may 3rd. and it's just amazing how history likes to repeat itself. then the west was afraid that poland with a new constitution and freedom that was not anywhere in europe as much as in poland would very quickly become stronger, and decided together with russia to destroy it, of course with the help of their bribed poles from targowica. today, 231 years later, you are once again annoyed by the freedom aspirations of the poles. and of course, we're always talking about the ukraine. and again, with the help of your poles, to the delight of russia, you are introducing new projects to weaken poland. why would you do that? because you want to get back in business with russia. and it's not like you guys said here that we all want the same thing. no, i'm not going. you want this war to end quickly, and we want ukraine to win. that's two different things. and another thing: you will not teach the poles, the poles who created the first constitution for europe, you will not teach what freedom is and what the rule of law is. you can learn it from us. cheers for may the 3rd. hail the constitution of may 3rd.
mr. chairman, please! for more than two months now, the russian federation has been illegally invading ukraine's sovereign territory. during that time, we have seen appalling human suffering and destruction in cities and villages. russian aggression cannot be silenced, and the five eu sanctions packages, which also hit russia's tourism and transport sectors, should be implemented as soon as possible. unfortunately, the war is also hitting europe's economy hard, especially in the countries and regions bordering russia, belarus and ukraine. i am pleased that the resolution to be voted contains many references to the tourism sector, which has been particularly affected by the two years of the pandemic. i therefore call for the financial assistance plans to be implemented as soon as possible to help european companies particularly affected by russia's criminal aggression in ukraine and by the migration crisis on the border with belarus, triggered by lukashenka. today, more than ever, the eastern part of poland, where i come from, which offers daily assistance to the influx of refugees from ukraine, needs immediate financial support.
mr. chairman, please! you can't put a human life in money. the lives of ukrainian children, women and men cannot be put into money, but money is needed to be able to save them, to support them, to help them defend themselves and to help them survive this tragic time for them all. so let us not be afraid to make bold decisions. we must not be the only ones to think that the consequences of this war will affect us all. yes, they will affect all of us, but the sooner this war is over, the sooner we stop putin, the sooner peace and a way out of this tragic situation in ukraine will simply be possible. what is needed is decisive action, consistency, firmness and solidarity. it's a good thing there's a sixth sanctions package. i can say it's too late. and i hope it works, and i hope we can say at the next session, here, at the next debate that this package is working, because so far it seems that decisions have been made but not fully implemented. to stop putin, we must be decisive and above all we must be consistent and courageous. today the european union is in great need of this courage. let's not be afraid, let's not be afraid to stop putin, let's not be afraid to say, enough is enough. let us draw the consequences and, above all, the lessons from the neglect that has unfortunately been shown here in the union in previous years. and one other thing. these people who end up in our countries need help, and the countries that support them need funds from the european union. i said you can't convert a man's life into money, but to help them, you need that money. so we need to create a fund, like the fund that was once there during the migration crisis, when economic migrants came to europe. we need to create a special fund to help the countries that are saving ukraine today.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. for the third month, brave ukrainians have been facing criminal russian military aggression and defending freedom not only in their homeland, but also in europe. a few weeks ago, i had the opportunity to also visit kiev, buche, irpin, at the instigation of my colleague andrius kubilius. i saw the horrors of war right on the spot. for example, in buchi, where there is not a single military facility, russian criminals have been attacking the civilian population since the first day of the invasion. i've seen mass graves, i've seen children's toys in front of bombed-out houses, holes in houses from russian missiles, just horrors that you can't forget. and it's shocking that russian war criminal putin has been awarding these thugs for these crimes. what is heroism to the russians is a primitive crime to all normal people. and crimes are not to be commended, but punished. i therefore welcome the european commission's decision to include these crimes from buche and their perpetrators in the next sanctions package. i also welcome the inclusion of russian disinformation channels in this sanctions package. we haven't done anything against russian propaganda for years, and it's time we got active. we have to move on. to protect life in europe, we need to derusify ourselves. let's not be afraid of that, we need to cut off our energy from russia, even though some countries are very dependent on them, including my country, slovakia, and i understand those concerns. but the solution is in a common european approach, in building an energy union, in coordinating stocks in common purchases. there are solutions. we must protect freedom, life and dignity of man today as the christian democrats did in europe. it's worth more now. today we need to help the ukrainians, who are a model of sacrifice. and when we help them, we help ourselves. life is more valuable than any money.
mr president, commissioner, the russian war of aggression against ukraine is perhaps the greatest test in the history of the european union. our society was built to create peace, and now that foundation is being threatened in the most violent way since world war ii. europe is at war. russia is trying to break up the union with every move, the latest and most recent example being the closure of the gas pipelines in bulgaria and poland. i appeal to every decision-maker in europe to look at the long arc of history and put an end to russian energy imports. this will create economic challenges, but the moral fabric of europe will have to bear the consequences. we cannot accept an invasion, massacres and the bombing of children's hospitals. the eu must be able to remain united and to take united decisions. the social and economic effects of the war affect every european. more than five million ukrainians have lost their homes and the eu must help them. the increase in energy prices also affects the food market. the commissioner for climate action, timmermans, has made a very unreasonable assessment of the fact that there is no food crisis in the eu and that there will be no food crisis in the eu. the best remedy for the crisis is to take care of the position of the producers of food and energy. we need to accelerate climate action, but we also need to rationalise the way in which the eu produces the cleanest food and the most zero-emission energy in the world. this reduces the social and economic losses. the common debt is not the way that the citizens of europe want to go. the current crisis is not the result of a crisis of the euro, but rather of the already agreed rescue package for the krona, which is still largely unused.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. today we are talking about the social and economic consequences for the union, but we should not be talking about what the consequences will be, but what the consequences might be. if we talk about what the consequences might be, the question is what we as the european union will do to reduce the negative consequences as much as possible. what steps are we prepared to take? we welcome the next set of sanctions, but we must also consider how the european union is to function in the future. how is it to be organized, run and financed? as rapporteur for the multiannual financial framework, i wanted to ask the commissioner publicly: is the multiannual financial framework we have today prepared, ready to respond to the challenges of war? is this a structure that is prepared for this kind of major crisis? i'm not just talking about this war, i'm talking about every major crisis. the answer is quite clear. it's not well prepared when it comes to challenges like this. we have to change that. the european parliament is now preparing to call on both the european commission and the council to amend the multiannual financial framework. we need a different kind of mechanism. it's not just that we need more money. finally, we need to rethink some budgetary mechanisms. the budget has to be more flexible, it has to be more prepared for challenges. the budget cannot send money that has not been spent back to the member states, it must leave it in the budget. so we need to take action, not just talk about what the consequences will be.
mr. chairman, please! the instinctive response of many governments to runaway inflation is to tax maneuvers designed to give the impression of cuts. but from an economic point of view, such actions can have the opposite effect, driving inflation and giving significant profits to the big players rather than to ordinary people. in the face of the challenges posed by russia's aggression against a free ukraine, it's time for more precise action. in addition to further sanctions, we must increase the tax burden on energy imports from russia, while helping those most in need. the solidarity we talk about so much must be measured not in words but in euros. let us be clear: germany, the netherlands and a number of other countries will be able to provide aid to their companies in the event of any losses, but there are few such member states, and putin's attack on ukraine will hurt all members of our community. in my home country of poland, refugee assistance is mainly provided by citizens and local governments. knowing that the national recovery plan for poland is on hold, it might be worth thinking about directing our aid where it is most urgently needed, namely to local communities and poles opening their homes to their ukrainian neighbors. without our support, this aid cannot continue, and the galloping expense will only make the situation worse for those who are actually involved. we've been changing solidarity for months for all the cases. we've been doing a great job of spontaneous breakups in the last few years. it's time to move on to more consistent, long-term, and thoughtful action. the future of the project we call the european union - our common home - depends on it. i'm referring to my predecessor's speech. the war in ukraine has presented us with a major challenge to fundamentally rebuild economic governance in the european union. the next generation eu should be a permanent feature. we should think about restructuring the stability and growth pact to combine flexibility with financial discipline.
mr. chairman, please! the social and political impact of russia's aggression against ukraine should be, first of all, to remove the blinders from the eyes of those politicians in germany, france, the netherlands or belgium who thought that by doing business with putin and fueling the russian war machine with billions of euros from the russian satrap, they would be able to create a peace-loving democracy. today is the day for real action! no haughty words, no marches, no protests, no chalk-drawing on the sidewalks will stop russian aggression against ukraine, only tough and consistent sanctions. a complete withdrawal from russian gas and oil. solidarity military support for ukraine and i mean heavy military equipment, not the unnecessary helmets in the bundeswehr's warehouses can stop putin. another very important social and political aspect of russia's aggression against ukraine must be the complete solidarity of all the member states of the union. with those countries that today have taken on a huge humanitarian effort to help millions of ukrainian war refugees, such as slovakia, the czech republic and my country, poland. and that is why it is a shame that the european commission has not yet given a single euro of aid to these countries. we in poland do not create closed ghettos, we do not talk about relocation. millions of poles are taking ukrainians under their roof. we are in full solidarity and we expect the european commission to show the same solidarity as other countries in central and eastern europe.
in writing. putin's war has cost ukraine a huge amount, initially estimated at $600 billion, not counting mariupol. sanctions from the democratic world have caused the russian economy to shrink by about 15%. the war in ukraine also has a huge impact on the world and the eu. first, because of our dependence on russian oil and gas, we're looking at 1.5 times inflation this year. this means a decline in investment and exports, lower gdp growth, erosion of household consumption. once again, this shows that the eu needs to diversify its supply, reduce its energy consumption and move away from its current climate policy. second, the war also has a huge humanitarian cost, especially for ukraine's neighbours. since february 24, about 5 million people have fled ukraine. this is much more than the annual influx of asylum seekers into the eu at the height of the syrian refugee crisis. that is why we must renew our common asylum and migration policy. we must give financial support to countries like poland, slovakia and hungary as soon as possible. third, ukraine and russia are major exporters of key food commodities: 30% of world wheat exports and 20% of maize. as a world, we're not ready for this. if we don't do everything we can to stop putin, we're going to have starvation, extreme poverty and rising crime. we must be united, we must stand shoulder to shoulder with ukraine and the frontline countries who are bringing invaluable aid to those fleeing the war.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank you. mr president of the court of auditors! ladies and gentlemen! i will discuss my reports on the discharge for the clean sky joint undertaking (now the clean aviation joint undertaking) and the discharge for the bioeconomy joint undertaking (now the biotechnology closed circuit europe joint undertaking). overall, the main shortcomings in the functioning of the joint undertakings relate to non-monetary contributions, surpluses of unused budgetary appropriations from previous years, i.e. carry-overs, procurement procedures and sound financial management. now let's get down to the details. the financial statements of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2020 shall give a true and fair view of the financial position of the joint undertaking and of the results of its operations and cash flows. however, in my report i pointed out many shortcomings and deficiencies in the operation of this project. well, the covid-19 pandemic has slowed down the pace of grant agreements with partners. the commission has also received a number of comments from the member states, which have been addressed in the course of the discussions. this situation has had a negative impact on the implementation rate of the budget for payments for operational activities. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the joint undertaking has also not fully used the resources of previous years. the joint undertaking has more than doubled its payment budget for infrastructure and communication expenditure. this doubling of the payment budget, together with the impact of the covid-19 pandemic, resulted in a low execution rate of 47,7% at the end of 2020. i will now present the problems in relation to the staffing issues. the joint undertaking shall be managed by the joint undertaking's executive director. however, the use of temporary agency workers increased significantly during the same period. the tasks performed by temporary staff are more permanent. the joint undertaking's practice leads to the creation of de facto permanent posts outside the establishment plan, which may lead to high staff turnover and uncertainty among contract staff and thus negatively affect the overall performance of the joint undertaking. in my report i also called on the joint undertaking to inform the discharge authority of the developments regarding the final olaf report received in september 2021 on two investigations. in both cases, olaf confirmed the suspicion of fraud. now, let's move on to the discharge for the bio-industrial joint venture. the annual accounts for 2020 shall give a true and fair view of the financial position of the joint undertaking, as well as the results of the transactions, cash flows and changes in net assets. however, there are many shortcomings, and i am particularly disappointed by the relatively large surplus in the joint undertaking's budget of unused appropriations from previous years. i will now discuss the shortcomings in the procurement and recruitment procedures. all union institutions and bodies are required to implement arrangements for the processing of data submitted in the context of procurement procedures. the commission has developed an integrated portal where all published offers are publicly accessible. the joint undertaking shall not use all the modules of the platform. the joint undertaking should make use of the commission's e-procurement solutions, which will ensure the widest possible competition in those procurements. i have called on the joint undertaking to respond as soon as possible to this matter. like bbi, clean sky too often uses temporary staff, which should remain a temporary solution. i propose to grant discharge to these joint undertakings.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i too would like to begin by thanking my colleagues, especially those who have supported me in the preparation of these reports. i would like to thank especially mrs. kamila wrzesińska. thank you to all of you who participated in these discussions. and to sum up this debate today, i would like to stress - and here i agree with my predecessor, mr richard czarnecki - that the debate on granting or postponing discharge to the european border and coast guard agency (frontex), in my view, is completely misplaced. we are at a particular moment in our history and this discharge should be given, because the protection of the external borders of our community, the european union, is of the utmost importance in the present situation. this agency - i want to make this very clear - is doing a good job. we also see no major problems in budgetary control. we have to remember that there are some flaws in most, if not all, agencies. and i'd like to draw on my own experience here. as former head of the ministry of the interior and administration in the government of the republic of poland, i worked with mr leggeri. i don't judge the charges against him today, but i would like to thank him very much for his cooperation. i will give you some concrete examples: yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, about fifty people who were legally brought to belarus by the belarusian regime, through lukashenka, tried to cross the polish-belarusian border, which is the external border of the european union. these individuals attacked border guard officers in cooperation with officers of the belarusian regime. if we deactivate the activities of the front, which is also responsible for the security of the southern flank - in spain, italy, malta, greece - we will destabilize the secure borders which are the guarantee of the security of the entire european community. thank you, mr. leggeri, for your cooperation. thank you to all the officers of the fronteks.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we have a great, great task before us today, as a parliament and as a committee of inquiry. because i'm glad it's over the divides. because it is our common task - the task of the whole parliament, but also in close cooperation with the commission - to clarify the scandals that have taken place, but to guarantee security. security for all of us: europe, for us citizens, politicians, journalists, lawyers or those who have become uncomfortable with the authorities. for different governments, different authorities. because no government can operate outside the law, above the law, with impunity. and i just wanted to say here, based on this collaboration, i think there's no left-wing or right-wing security. it's just for the safety of all of us. i wanted to tell mr. tarczyński, because he said some stupid words and ran away: for law and justice, for your representatives, it is not a problem that you have a pegasus system, which was created recently, not 8 or 20 years ago. the problem is that these kinds of tools can be used illegally, against democracy, against free elections, against the opposition or against the commission, which makes important decisions. if the commissioners are making decisions on sanctions, so important and crucial for security today, then we must clarify, commissioner, to the end, who was spying. because commissioner reynders... we know his visitation schedule, his activity in the past year. we know exactly what dates are sensitive and when his phone was hacked. the cooperation of parliament, the committee of inquiry and the commission is the first and most important task, but also the commission's cooperation with the national prosecutors. because that is the job of our national parliaments and also the job of the intelligence services. and i call on all parliaments, your national delegations, but through you, the national parliaments, to set up commissions of inquiry in each country. we have representatives of the polish senate investigative committee here today. they're sitting in the gallery. they're listening in on the meetings to establish cooperation. yes, we must have a strict oversight of the work of the services. not to prohibit the use of the pegasus system and others like it, but to ensure that it is used as intended. to fight terrorism, to guarantee our security, and not to undermine that security by introducing a tool for illegal surveillance of opponents, opposition, journalists or lawyers. i call for close cooperation across the divides and also for cooperation with the commission, commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i have the irresistible feeling that very serious people, and i include meps, and commissioners and all the others who work in the european institutions, are very easily drawn into: a) either the fight between companies, b) or the internal fight between countries, where the opposition fights against the government. because whether it's called pegasus or it's called some other xy device, you have to know that every country is going to have it. let's not be naive, because a country, whatever it is, has to have better equipment than terrorists, has to have better equipment than criminals, has to have better equipment than organized crime groups. it's about the warranty. and there are indeed those cases that mr. halicki, mr. tarczyński or mrs. róża thun have cited here. ask if there's been a court order, or they'd just have to apologize here. it's about the warranty. i would therefore like to say clearly and unequivocally to mr lópez aguilar: why do you not mention spain? why don't you talk about spain, why don't you talk about greece, why don't you talk about holland, why don't you talk about other countries? 102 countries are said to have this device. it's all about the warranty. and indeed, don't be hypocrites, don't be manipulated into simply being in a brutal political fight within yourself.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate over the misuse of israeli spyware pegasus, with its implications for poland and hungary, has a broader political context. amnesty international's investigation has already revealed that the services of 50 countries have used this tool to monitor 50,000 people. the german federal criminal police bought pegasus, and the german government has repeatedly refused to explain or submit to inspection. a citizen lab investigation report revealed the widespread use of software by the spanish government against activists, mainly catalan. 63 victims were identified, but it was only when evidence emerged that pegasus was also used in poland and hungary that the european parliament was moved, indifferent to the wiretapping scandal involving dozens of polish journalists under the donald tusk government. and it's not the tool, it's the fact that you're being watched. as usual, the target is simply poland and hungary. think about what useful idiots you're working for in this time of war.
mr. chairman, please! the citizens of the european union want to live in a safe world without war, terrorism and crime. we agree to limit our rights, our freedoms, our privacy, so that the services of the state can function and effectively protect our security. but let us remember that our core values are human rights and the rule of law, and the government of every state in our community must operate on the basis of and within the law. every government must be subject to scrutiny by its citizens, and the actions of the services must be proportionate, targeted and subject to scrutiny by courts independent courts. we need to clarify the legality of the purchase and the legality of the use of the pegasus system in every country of the union. we need to check whether the current models of supervision and control of services meet the standards of the human rights system and are in line with the union's values. we need to verify that there was a violation of the law, and if so, who is responsible. any government - left, right, liberal - must be held accountable if it violates human rights. the values and principles of our community apply to everyone. we must look particularly closely at the governments of those countries where the question of the separation of powers has been raised, because there the violations could have been even more significant.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. it is well known that honest people have nothing to fear, and there is no problem. so if we are talking about a serious issue today, which is security, let's consider that among us or next to us there are bandits, terrorists, agents of influence, about whom the us ambassador ms. mosbacher spoke, and these agents of influence have prepared, among other things, a contribution for you here, so that you speak very badly about poland and hungary. the czech mp from the pirate party just said that things are very bad in poland, but he didn't mention anything about former prime minister babiš, who made a fortune on eu money. mr lópez aguilar is very happy to talk about poland, but he doesn't say anything about spain, about what's happening there. yes, it's a very sensitive, delicate subject, and you have to be careful, of course. i wish the commission success and i hope that the commission will also develop a mechanism to reveal the agents of influence and the agents who work for putin here in brussels. they're here, they're making this contribution to you, and then you repeat the nonsense about poland. and if there are any senate representatives in this room, i would ask that you help us find roman g., who will not be present for questioning by the polish prosecutor's office.
mr president, commissioner, there is also a commissioner for the european way of life, and i would like him to be here today and we would ask him what this european way of life is. because in europe, they watch each other. is this the european way of life? is this the europe we want? and it's not just pegasus, there's also another system, the predator. a greek journalist, mr koukakis, was monitored by this system. he was being watched by the government, which admitted it. what was this reporter investigating ? he was investigating government legislative changes that facilitated financial crime and corruption. so, dear colleagues from poland and hungary, you are not alone. there are others now. everyone is watching everyone else and there must be a system of legislation which prohibits radically or with very severe penalties the use of such means in the european union. that's it.
mr president, commissioner, the unscrupulous use of spyware like pegasus opens up a new front in the battle we are waging to defend democracy and the rights of european citizens. the scandalous revelations of wiretapping of state leaders, politicians, journalists and human rights defenders are raising alarm about a flagrant breach of european law. moreover, it is a violation of the fundamental values that underpin our union, such as respect for human rights and freedom of expression. effective countermeasures are needed. we need them now. the number of abuses is increasing, so we must protect the victims of unregulated interference and take strong measures to limit the risks before it is too late. without, of course, tying the hands of the intelligence community. new technologies are and will continue to be an integral part of the effective fight against terrorism and serious crime. so regulation is the only way to draw clear and secure boundaries for the permissible use of spyware like pegasus. in other words, the question we face is how to contain these technologies so that they don't become an unregulated machine for the widespread tracking of the powerless, a powerful weapon against political opponents or representatives of civil society. the creation of a committee of inquiry in the european parliament is important to understand the extent to which spyware has penetrated the member states, but i expect a serious response from the european commission as well. measures are needed in many areas, from urgently stopping abuses to data security and access. and it's no accident that i emphasize the need for rapid response, because risky technologies, which are the product of a multibillion-dollar industry, will not stop evolving while institutions debate the tools to control them.
mr. chairman, please! the russian order is not just putin and his corrupt state, it's a state of mind. it's a soviet approach to standards, to using the tools that the state has. the use of the pegasus anti-terrorist weapon against its own innocent citizens is at the heart of the russian order. members of pisu, you have repeatedly mocked european values, trampled on minority rights, disregarded citizens' right to privacy. putin is doing the same. to him, the standards of civilized countries are western fantasies. so is the rule of law. there are no rules in the soviet union. power can do anything, it can spy with impunity, and then it can wipe its face with pseudo-patriotism. you, ms. kemp and mr. tarczyński, have broken the basic rules, you have spied on your own citizens, not russian agents or al-qaeda, but people who care about a strong, law-abiding and democratic poland. because that's the kind of country we need today. a country strong in the strength of its citizens and their freedom, a country where citizens have confidence in its institutions. i believe that poland will return. and this pathetic attempt of yours to sovietise, putinizate poland will be accounted for.
mr. chairman, please! in july 2021, the french president was put on the list of suspects for surveillance. also in 2021, the german intelligence bought pegasus. then this case didn't cause you any anxiety. why didn't they call a commission of inquiry? the answer is simple because it didn't apply to poland and hungary. we're not special needs kids. you want to be honest, honest about the use of pegasus? check all the member states. the pegasus surveillance case has grown to become a european-wide issue. posters calling for an explanation of the scandal created in the european parliament by the left and the greens no longer have the face of the head of my party, as happened in february this year. you guys are a little awkward, aren't you? or even idiotically and grotesquely. in poland, the senate committee on pegasus was established. by law, it has no investigatory powers, no access to classified information and no operational control. so, ladies and gentlemen of the senate, have a nice trip, and a good stay in strasbourg.
mr. chairman, please! over there, on the far right, sits the team that rules poland today. you know what they said when they were asked about pegasus? that they bought it because they had to go after terrorists. that's what they were after. poland's leading terrorist, head of the main opposition party's campaign for the european parliament. they were after the main terrorist of poland, gertych, and his lawyer and attorney, donald tusk. they were after a terrorist, prosecutor wrzosek, one of the few who could stand up to this team. you know what else they said? they bought pegasus, and if you're honest, you don't have to be afraid of him. that hypocrisy is reflected in these speeches. so since the honest man has nothing to fear, i invite jaroslaw kaczyński, the former polish prime minister and the whole team, i invite orbán here, and let them say: "we did not pursue the opposition, we did not pursue the prosecutors, we did not pursue the democratic opposition". let them say it, since the honest have nothing to fear. you are welcome, mr. president kaczynski. besides, your invitation's already being written.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. today is the 70th day of the war in europe. russian intelligence is also operating here, they will analyze your every word, your every action, they will observe what happens in the special commission. so i ask you to be restrained, to be substantive and to take responsibility for your actions and your words. moreover, russian services and their influence before the war were active in the european parliament and the european commission. i hope that a special committee will soon be set up to deal with this issue as well. the petitioner for the committee said that there are such media reports. yes, the media reports. there are few prosecutorial, judicial proceedings where citizens have the right to defend themselves and to ask for a decision to be taken in accordance with the laws in force in each member state. i'm following the committee, a special committee with very limited powers, because the rules actually say that it can or it should. it's hard to expect the intelligence services of any country in the face of war to stand up and talk about how they operate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. we all know that restricting the activities of independent media, blocking freedom of speech or banning peaceful assembly cannot take place in a democratic world that should be based on christian values. furthermore, following the recent events in cambodia, which have resulted in the disruption of the basic human rights order, we call on the cambodian authorities to lift the convictions against opposition leaders, which were based on politically motivated charges. we demand that their rights be restored so that they can have a chance to fight for the common good of their country. we demand the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners. we call for the withdrawal of all politically motivated charges against them. as we stressed in our resolution, all cambodians, regardless of their political affiliation, must be guaranteed the right to a fair trial. this is to be in line with international standards and the principles enshrined in the cambodian constitution. i urge the cambodian authorities to strengthen democracy and the rule of law in decision-making in this country. the constitutional provisions on freedom of association or expression simply have to be guaranteed.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking about the african region, which poses another threat to the security of the european community as a whole. i'm talking about the demographics here. today, the population of the sahel countries is over 80 million. the demographic projections say that by 2030 this will increase to 120 million, and by 2050 it will double to 250 million people, who, because of the destabilization of their countries, through desertification, wars, conflicts, islamic groups, will move north, move to europe. we have to be aware of that. i would also like to draw attention to another danger, not just that of the factors i have already mentioned, which are wars, conflicts, islamic groups, namely the emergence of russia in these countries. this military "chick-off" of putin, which is the wagner group, has gone from syria through countries like mali, chad, burkina faso. today, they destabilize the situation in these countries. let's remember that they're fighting in ukraine, too. the wagner brothers were assigned to assassinate president zelensky. putin is destabilizing the sahel to destabilize the euro.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. free competition is the basis of the market. without it, the european market will neither function nor develop. the participants in the european single market come from countries with very different potential, so a particular focus should be on creating a level playing field. now, after the pandemic, we need to ensure that we are phasing out public aid in a proportionate way, so that we don't favor entities from richer countries where aid programs were stronger. i believe that a major threat to competition in europe could be the uncritical favouring of those sectors of the economy that have been deemed 'green' from the top (and often arbitrarily) regardless of their actual economic efficiency. i think that this ideologizing of economics is very dangerous for the free market. i thank the rapporteur for the enormous amount of work he has done. the emphasis on a level playing field, stimulating innovation, protecting the competitiveness of eu businesses and providing consumers with more choice - these are exactly the directions i strongly support. at the same time, i cannot agree with the elements of the report on green transition paragraphs 47 and 49, in particular the reference to the european parliament resolution of 20 october 2021 on state aid for climate-related purposes. as ecr, we did not support this resolution. i can't agree to discriminate against entire sectors of the traditional economy that are fossil fuel-based. i can't imagine killing off competition in the name of eco-ideology.
mr. chairman, please! these are historic and dramatic days. putin is trying to intimidate moldova, but the moldovans will not be intimidated and will not be afraid. moldova will be an independent country and will work closely with us. that's why the resolution is so important, standing with independent moldova. moldovans, even the russian-speaking ones, don't want russian help. they're a proud people in a beautiful country. they want to live in peace, and that's why we need to work very closely with them. words are not enough. today's the resolution. in two weeks, president maia sandu will be a guest of our parliament. we must not only be very active in providing financial and expert assistance, but also in contributing to the realization of this fundamental aspiration of moldovans to live together in a secure europe. we'll have a report in june. we worked across the divide with dragoşem tudorache, the leader of building a very good project of cooperation between us and the moldovan government, which is a reliable, good partner for this cooperation. we must seize this moment, because it is the most important moment in the history of this country and this society, which has taken in over 400,000 ukrainians fleeing death. it's really a huge help to this community and it's a sign that they're in europe today.
in writing. moldova is an important candidate country for membership of the european union. this country of 3.5 million people is a direct neighbor of ukraine, so it is natural that it is on the list of countries where russia wants to secure its influence. it's an important circumstance in this process. that is why it is so important that the eu now does everything it can to ensure that lasting, real and measurable ties with the west win out over the pro-russian tendencies in the country. we are aware that severing ties with the russian federation is a necessity. the european union must provide fundamental assistance to the country that has joined the sanctions against the russian federation, which is a great opportunity for moldova, but also a great risk. this beautiful country and its proud citizens should be sure that eu integration is a real alternative for them, a prospect for development and, above all, security. having learned the hard lessons of russia's brutal aggression against ukraine, let us build alliances consistently and prospectively with countries that want cooperation and integration, never forgetting robert schuman's idea of the european union a europe united in diversity, a europe of independent member states, not the utopia of a united states of europe.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the impact of the war against ukraine on women, tabled by mr robert biedroń, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000015/2022 - b9-0012/22) (2022/2633 ((rsp)). i remind you that the free choice of seats applies with the exception of the first two rows allocated to the team leaders. you can request the floor by catch-the-eye and by blue card through your voting terminal, after you have inserted your voting card. i would also remind you that the speeches in the hemisphere will continue to be made from the main stage, except for catch-the-eye, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure.
author. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, despite the heroic resistance of the ukrainian people, russia’s barbaric war continues, and, as usual in such conflicts, girls and women pay the highest price. this is why the committee on women’s rights and gender equality has prepared a resolution on the impact of this war on girls and women, which strongly condemns the russian aggression and orders the eu and its member states to ensure that women seeking refuge in europe receive all the support they need. every day, independent media alert us that mass rapes, sexual and gender—based violence, torture and genocide are being used as a weapon of this war. we will not rest until the perpetrators of those crimes are brought to justice. this is the promise, this is the declaration which must be heard today in this house. but, even when they are, deeply wounded lives might never recover from such a trauma. since the beginning of the russian aggression, more than 5 million people have been forced to flee the country, with an estimated 90% of refugees being girls, women and children. as european citizens, we have reacted to the incoming refugees with unprecedented solidarity and, for the first time, the council of the eu triggered the temporary protection directive. from this place, i want to thank you, commissioner johansson, for your personal involvement in this case. however, this is merely the first step and member states need to increase their efforts in this regard. the risk of violence and sexual exploitation does not end once vulnerable women and children cross the border, as human traffickers increasingly profit from the crisis. member states must improve the registration of all refugees and volunteers and ensure refugees can travel safely. people need specialised support as survivors of violence. those women need to gain access to livelihoods, including their ability to work and earn income to get stability and possible independence. the economic empowerment of women and integration is crucial here. women within ukraine and in the host eu countries require access to the full range of sexual reproductive health services. it is therefore absolutely unacceptable that, for instance, women seeking refuge in poland – the eu country with the highest proportion of refugees – are forced to continue pregnancies that are the result of a brutal rape. finally, we need to ease the burden on civil society as they have worked tirelessly to help refugees, filling the gaps created by the sometimes slow and indecisive actions of our governments. it is high time that the member states step up their efforts here. considering all the above, i would like to ask the commissioner and the commission what specific strategies to prevent and combat the trafficking of women and children is the eu implementing in this context? second, what is your role in providing support to coordinating health services on the refugees’ arrival in the eu, which ensures that women have access to the full range of sexual and reproductive health services, including emergency contraception, contraception itself, legal and safe abortion care, antenatal care and skilled assistance during childbirth. third, what is the eu’s role in collecting evidence against war atrocities that have been committed, in particular investigating war crimes, including rape? fourth, what are the eu’s medium—term plans for managing the situation of women refugees? (the speaker spoke in a non-official language) long live the heroic ukrainian women.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! as you know, since the beginning of the war in ukraine, more than 3 million refugees have arrived in poland. over 90 percent of them are women with children. president von der leyen likes to talk about supporting women. but what exactly has the european commission done for ukrainian women? she didn't do anything! in the middle of europe, several million women fleeing war have received no real help from the european commission. the commission is only offering to relocate existing funds. and what's more, as you can see in this room, some people are very keen that ukrainian women who have survived the trauma of the bombings and the separation from their husbands should also survive the trauma of abortion. what they need now is clothing, food, and medicine. and mr. biedroń would be very interested in giving them abortion pills. meanwhile, mothers who fled the war gave birth to a thousand children in poland. each of these children is a source of joy and hope for them. these mothers live in our homes, they study in our schools, they have free polish health care. this is an estimated cost of 13 billion euros a year. unfortunately, the european commission is not planning any emergency aid for the polish government, local governments or ngos - and therefore for women and children. by comparison, the commission has given over €3 billion to turkey for syrian refugees. so why are ukrainian women in poland less important to the commission? why didn't erdogan have to wait for european help? and we are still waiting and asking what else does poland have to do to be treated at least as turkey?
madam president, ukrainian women are the biggest victims of putin’s war. women and their children are the easiest targets for russian soldiers’ cruelty. horrible stories are emerging: a woman forced into sexual slavery, trapped in a basement in bucha. after being tortured, russian soldiers, shot her dead. a mother raped repeatedly in front of her son; a three—year—old girl found dead with her whole family, her body bearing marks of rape; a mother forced to watch her 11—year—old son being gang-raped. ukrainian women are fleeing and they need our help. they need immediate medical care, access to emergency contraception, psychological support, and legal abortion in europe. the border countries must provide urgently needed healthcare to victims of russian violence. thanks to investigators and press underground collecting evidence on war crimes, we already know some of the faces and names of the perpetrators. it is our duty to ensure that the monsters responsible for these crimes are brought to justice and punished. it’s good that russian soldiers will be sanctioned, but i want to see them at the international criminal court.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i would like to ask you how you evaluate the help of germans in general for ukraine, including for ukrainian women, for ukrainian mothers, for ukrainian children? do you know what this german government aid looks like in practice?
i should say that this is off our topic. so, let's move to the speakers' list.
madam president! thousands of people have died as a result of russia's invasion of ukraine. millions were forced to flee their homes, many were deported to the interior of russia. the russian military uses cruelty, rape, torture and genocide as weapons against the civilian population. women and children are particularly affected. this evil didn't just come out of nowhere. this is the result of the west's policy towards putin's russia. the ambiguous role of some states was revealed earlier when they armed russia. then they watched the aggression go on, as if hoping for a quick surrender of kiev. then they blocked the sanctions. and now this house is trying to use the tragedy of ukrainian women and children to promote its own agenda. when millions of people need help, you're thinking about how to make it easier to take lives instead of how to protect them. if there were genuine concern for the fate of women, we would have addressed the issue of greater involvement in helping ukraine at the eu level to stop these atrocities as soon as possible, or in solidarity aid to poland, where most ukrainian women have taken refuge.
madam president, i would like to thank you. ninety percent of the refugees from ukraine are women and children. women refugees are among the bravest and strongest people i have ever met, but it is our responsibility to support and strengthen their rights and stand with them. to do this, we must listen to the organizations that are working day and night to do just that. and they are clear: we need safe transport, we need safe and secure housing, we need special measures for pregnant women who need maternity care and we need to increase direct support to the organisations and local authorities who are actually doing the work at the border and in poland. the organisations working in poland also testify that they meet women who have been victims of sexual violence. as has been said here, we must bring the perpetrators to justice. but we must also ensure that those who are vulnerable receive the care, including abortion care, that is needed. that is why we are now demanding that ukrainian women have safe, legal and free abortions in poland and in eu member states. the war in ukraine has also created a large group of women and children who are at risk of being exploited and falling victim to sex traffickers and pimps, that is, european men who do not hesitate to buy women. everyone is saying that they are against this, but at the same time nothing is being done and nobody has any idea of what is really happening in the prostitution markets in europe. that is not right, and i know you, commissioner, do not think so either. we must work together to stand up for the rights of ukrainian refugees. we need to make sure that these are women. we need a more feminist refugee policy in europe. i propose that we appoint a special representative in the commission to look into the situation and needs of women refugees, so that we can address this.
madam president! the war in ukraine has completely changed reality. ukrainian men had to make an immediate decision whether to join the fighting soldiers, while women had to decide whether to stay in the country or to flee ukraine to save their lives and the lives of their children. the women took their basic necessities and left ukraine with their children. ukrainian girls grow up too early. as a result of the war, women were reduced to the role of caregivers and even heads of families. they had to face the challenge of providing for themselves and their children. those who remained must have regretted their decision as the russian soldiers raped and tortured the barbarians. the war in ukraine will cause permanent changes in the psyche of ukrainian women, in the psyche of women who are accompanied by a constant fear of their husbands, fathers, brothers and sons left behind in the war. do these women ever regain their mental balance, their sense of security, their faith in people? will they have to endure the trauma and the nightmares for many years to come? one of the heroines of the novel, svetlana alexievich, a writer and nobel laureate, said: "in war, the human soul ages. after the war, i was never young again. let's give ukrainian women a chance to save their youth. and finally, we women of europe, we citizens of europe, of europe without war, must remember that it is our duty, not our privilege, to take care of the health and the broad rights of ukrainian women.
madam president! fellow workers! crimes against ukrainian girls and women must be prosecuted and punished. many persecuted women fled to poland. these are women who are not only facing the trauma of war, but because of tragic events, they are the sole breadwinners of their families. one of the biggest challenges, besides ensuring their safety, is to build a system of vocational activation that allows them to enter the labour market, to earn a living. the aim is to provide places in nursery, pre-school and school education for ukrainian children and to allocate funds by the european commission to support programmes for entrepreneurs creating jobs and employing ukrainian women. the spontaneous and admirable actions of the polish people - and as you know, three million ukrainians have crossed our border - must be supported by the means available to the union, not some time in the future, but here and now.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. today is the 71st day of the war in europe. every day we see murder, rape, torture, unimaginable suffering, sometimes unfortunately while drinking coffee or talking to friends. i bow to the ukrainian women, as well as to the women all over europe who have supported them, and above all to the polish women, and i thank them every day, especially the women in the subcarpathian and lublin regions, because every day since the beginning of the war they have been on the border. ukrainian women need three things: an end to the war, tight sanctions and money. today, tomorrow at the latest. commissioner, please don't tell the poles to do this out of their own pockets. we've taken in over two million ukrainians. they're in health care, education, social services, they have their peseles. we need the money. don't tell me that you want to starve poland during the war. because we are in poland for ukraine, for the whole european union. we want to help, but we want money. today, tomorrow.
madam president! thank you so much for giving me a voice. i am only taking this vote because there has been very untrue and unflattering information, false information, that the polish government has not asked the european commission for financial aid for refugees. one of the members said it very clearly and very brutally, and mr biedroń applauded her for it. well, i want to inform you that on april 13th of this year, prime minister morawiecki wrote to ursula von der leyen asking for 11 billion euros to help the refugees from ukraine in poland, for two million refugees, for a period of nine months. and i ask that the member of parliament correct that information and apologize.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that in a crisis, traffic networks are intensified and activated. women are the most vulnerable. violence and rape is not only against women, it's also against girls, against minors. i think, commissioner, that we need to have a record of the most vulnerable women who remained in ukraine, who could not leave there, who need shelter, they need support, a quick call system to be a cell that goes to get them out to protect them. so we need, at the level of the european union, to take concrete action, because it is horrible that young women are left with this fracture in their hearts and souls, being attacked, raped, even mutilated, some of them. that is why i am calling on the commission and on us, the parliament and the council, to come up with some concrete solutions to support the women who are the most exposed and the most vulnerable, i am talking about the women who have stayed there, who have not been able to leave.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you all very much for this debate. thank you for your strong solidarity with the ukrainian women. war crimes must be brought to justice, including rapists. on top of what i said in the beginning of the debate, i can add, member states can help investigations with financial support by sending forensic experts, for example. last week, the commission proposed to boost eurojust capabilities to handle war crime—related evidence. the genocide network at eurojust is providing guidance to civil society on collecting evidence. europol is ready to support a joint investigation team. and we must support women. as i said, yesterday i spoke to olha stefanishyna, deputy prime minister of ukraine, and she told about a number of cases of rape, how it has exploded, and that ukraine alone cannot cope. so we talked about a proposal to set up survivors’ centres to support victims in ukraine. she asked for our support, and i agree that this is a very good idea. i’m working closely together with my colleagues, commissioners lenarčič, kyriakides and dalli, to help victims of sexual violence, and i will discuss the possibilities to support survivors’ centres in ukraine together with them. inside the eu, the civil society organisations are really the first responders. their volunteers are often the first to meet the badly traumatised victims. they say, you can tell it from their eyes. and we need to support the civil society organisations. victims of rape in ukraine must have access to abortion. we do not yet know how many victims there are. many raped women do not want to speak out. we need to encourage these victims to testify, to ask for support. russia, on the other hand, should never, ever be able to wash away the shame. i should add we are supporting medical aid with eu funds, short—term, immediate trauma support through eu4health and long—term support from the fund for european aid to the most deprived and our cohesion policy funds. yesterday, i presented an eu common anti—trafficking plan at the solidarity platform with eu anti—trafficking coordinators and that was extremely well received. we have been working together – in the commission agencies, the commission, european parliament, member states – to fight trafficking in human beings since the beginning of this war. so we are very much on the same page and we don’t need to start from zero. this work against trafficking in human beings builds on the anti—trafficking directive and our strategy against the trafficking of human beings. then to conclude: after this debate, i can say we are very much united. united in condemnation of russia’s war on women, united in ensuring that perpetrators should not go unpunished, and united in support for the brave women of ukraine.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place today. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. there are no words to describe the barbarity of putin's troops in ukraine. the russian army is doing in ukraine today what it did in 1945 in my silesia. he murders, rapes, destroys everything in his path. ukrainian women and children are particularly vulnerable to russian violence. the european parliament therefore calls for the citizens of ukraine to be guaranteed access to basic sexual and reproductive health rights and services. we also need to ensure the safety of fleeing ukrainians so that they do not become victims of human trafficking. member states should effectively prosecute those who profit from such criminal activities. i believe that putin and his soldiers will be held accountable for their crimes in international tribunals.
in writing. the refugee crisis is mainly about women and children, as it is estimated that of the five million ukrainian refugees abroad, women and children make up up up 90%. in addition, we have more than seven million internally displaced persons right here in ukraine. the european union must be a safe haven for all ukrainians, where they will not have to fear sexual abuse, exploitation or trafficking in human beings. the crimes committed by russian soldiers in ukraine, including in the area of sexual violence, must not go unpunished in the future.
the id group has informed the president of decisions to amend the appointments of committee members. these decisions are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and will enter into force on the day they are notified to parliament. the sitting will be suspended for the moment and will be resumed at 12 noon with a vote. (the sitting was suspended at 11.48 a.m.)
thank you very much, mr lega. i will pass on the information to madam president, and we will see how the parliament can officially react.
the next item is the vote.
rapporteur. – madam president, if you will allow me, this is just a call for the members to endorse the mandate of the libe committee to engage into negotiations – the so-called interinstitutional negotiations – as it is an extension of the timeframe of the first version of the eu digital covid certificate. it makes sense insofar as the pandemic is not over – the worst is over, but the pandemic is not over yet – so a time limited extension is reasonable, and that is the mandate of negotiation of the libe committee.
now we will proceed with the vote. it is adopted. the committee can start interinstitutional negotiations immediately.
it is adopted. the committee can start interinstitutional negotiations immediately.
president of the committee on transport and tourism. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on transport and tourism has tabled a resolution on the war in ukraine and its consequences for the transport sector. as you know, transport was part of the first set of strategic sanctions against russia, whether it was banning russian-flagged vessels from european ports or banning russian operators from european skies. but this is not global. we were guided today by urgency, and i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on transport and tourism for their work, which has identified the challenges facing the sector and provided a real response to help ukrainians in the long term. european solidarity towards our ukrainian friends is first and foremost shown here in the delivery of humanitarian material and food, in the evacuation of refugees and in supporting their supply chain. yes, we'll be the relay for their exports. the transport workers have been doing heroic work for more than two months, so to show solidarity and to show how much we support their humanity, i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this resolution.
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 12.41)
the minutes of yesterday’s sitting and the texts adopted are available. are there any comments? the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the building of a wall on the polish – belarus border in the białowieża primeval forest (2022/2652(rsp)). i remind you that free seating applies, with the exception of the first two rows, which are allocated to the group leaders. you will be able to request catch—the—eye and blue—cards via your voting machine, after having inserted your voting card. i would also like to remind you that interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum except for catch—the—eye, blue—cards and points of order.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the exceptional natural value of the białowieża forest is uncontested. it is a unesco site and a natura 2000 site. the białowieża forest is part of poland’s and europe’s natural heritage. we must protect it so our children and grandchildren can enjoy it too. forests are essential to regulate the climate and safeguard europe’s biodiversity. that’s especially true for primeval forests like the białowieża forest. the issue you raise is that of polish plans to build a border wall right through the forest. this wall is being built in response to attempts by the belarus dictator lukashenko to create an artificial migration crisis by luring people that he could sell an expensive ticket to the eu. of course, this is not for him to sell. the eu response to lukashenko’s aggression has been effective: sanction towards the regime and cooperation with the international community. we have reached out to airlines and countries and we have stopped the flights to minsk and stopped the inflow of people being tricked into this situation. thanks to the cooperation with partner countries, many of these migrants have been able to return to the country of origin. and thanks to unified actions, irregular rivals have plummeted. last summer, 800 people crossed into poland from belarus in one week; last week it was 34. the polish border with belarus is not just a polish border, it’s the eu border. member states must protect the eu external borders and uphold fundamental rights. it is no contradiction in doing both. the european union does not fund fences or walls, but we do fund integrated border management that detects irregular crossings and is linked to an effective and speedy migration management and asylum system when managing the border. member states must not only uphold fundamental rights and our eu values, but also our eu acquis. that means being in full respect also of our european environmental legislation. the habitats directive is very clear. if a project has a potential impact on a natura 2000 protected area, the authorities must first check for any significant negative effects and if there are ways to address these effects. if they find that there is significant impact, the authorities can still decide to go ahead with the project. but that can happen only if there are imperative reasons of overriding public interest. in that case, they must first prove there are no alternatives and they must also compensate for the environmental impact. the habitats directive does not define ‘imperative reason of overriding public interest’, but the legal text does mention public safety as an example. so it is clear that under eu law we can protect both the environment and public safety. we can and must do both. it is also clear we must follow the procedures established by eu law. that is why, in line with our commitment made at the envi committee meeting on 21 april, the commission has sent a letter to the polish authorities asking about the compliance of this project with eu environmental legislation. as soon as the polish government sends us a reply, we will update you on this important issue.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. the security of the european union's borders is of paramount importance and everything must be done to strengthen it. there's always a cost in a situation like this. when we look at the war in ukraine, sanctions are also a cost for us, the people of the european union. in the case of border protection, such costs may include, for example, environmental interference. but the fundamental question is whether the planned construction of a wall on the border with belarus, with all its controversies, including the interference with the precious natural environment, and the ambiguities, including the financial ones, will deter potential refugees? i doubt that. an example is the wall on the border between the united states and mexico. did he restrict refugees or those who want to cross the border illegally? no may have only extended the time of crossing or changed the place of crossing the border insignificantly. i would also like to remind you that there are women and children on the border with belarus. i emphasize women and children. i'm not talking about men. and they're also fleeing a war that's often the same man, putin, who's responsible. and let's not forget that there are people living in the border area. the inhabitants, who until now have lived only from tourism, have been engaged in tourism economic activity, today are deprived of this opportunity. banning of journalists please, ladies and gentlemen, journalists can enter ukraine, where they are in danger of being killed, and there is a ban on the border with belarus, and the argument is that they cannot be there for their safety. it's a lot of doubt, a lot of confusion. they should all be checked, explained. but the most important thing - and this is the last sentence - is to prepare and develop common european solutions that are long-term and effective.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. fellow workers! remember the wall that the world was talking about in 2018? it was a wall built by hatred, xenophobia, bigotry. the wall of former president of the united states donald trump. a wall on the mexican border, supposed to stop illegal immigration. has he detained anyone other than the animals, of course? no, because people will always find a way to jump over any wall to find a safer place. unfortunately, animals are not able to do this. no wall has stopped the migration yet. now, in europe's oldest forest, protected by unesco, a similar wall is being built in the białowieża forest. it's good for the boys and girls to learn to say that name, because maybe soon this forest will be a thing of the past. a wall is being built in the heart of the natura 2020 site, which will cause irreversible changes to the environment by destroying the migratory routes of protected animals. in 2017, the commission rose to the occasion and took poland to the court of justice of the european union when the same law and justice government began a massive deforestation. today, commissioner, the commission is delaying any action, in breach of eu law. i would like to mention the habitats directive, which requires that for this type of investment, the member state sends an impact assessment to the european commission note before construction starts, not after construction starts. commissioner, why did you ask for this post factum? why are you breaking eu law? what are you waiting for in the european commission? why hasn't another infringement procedure been initiated on this matter yet? ngos are appealing, the scientific community is appealing, the people of this region are appealing, and you're allowing another wall to be built. we did not tear down the berlin wall to build another wall in another place, in another part of europe. because it's never solved anything before.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i could just sign everything that was said, including with what you ... i agree fully with what you said, commissioner, only, as robert biedroń has just mentioned, why wait? all the points, all the breaches were committed. you know about it very well. you knew before the wall was being built that it was coming and then nothing was undertaken. then the situation is really dramatic. we have discussed it already several times from the point of view of human rights – those miserable people who are held outside of the european union, dying in those forests. from the perspective of nature preservation, which is being brutally destroyed, probably this picture is too small, but this wall is.... (the president invited the speaker to remove the photo she was showing)okay, i put it down. but see in the internet, you will see much more tragic pictures, really, of this destruction of the most beautiful and precious monument of nature. but what is maybe the worst is that the european commission, in which we trust and which we want to be strong and fulfil its duty, namely to be the guardian of the treaties and our laws in the european union, doesn’t fulfil its duties, and there are i don’t know how many laws being broken, environmental laws that are being broken now through the construction of this horrible, useless, as you have said, wall: the habitats directive, birds directive, charter of human rights, articles 18 to 21, treaty on the eu, of course, article 2, etc. and in addition to that, apart from this destruction, the horrible symbolic meaning of walls in europe in the 21st century, the non-acting of the european commission – we write letters, we never receive answers, the last letter i signed was written two months ago, i never received any answer – in addition to that, it’s utterly useless because it is so miserably built this wall that it destroys the environment but people dig holes underneath and they managed to come and escape their misery, maybe, maybe thank god. but we will surely hear immediately representatives of the members of the party ruling in poland that will say that the fence is broken, protects us against putin and against invasion from russia, and i don’t know if we should cry or laugh about such arguments, because really, if fences protected us against invaders like putin, then life would be very easy. but life is much more complicated. what we need is action by the european commission. please do act, commissioner, i say it on your hands because you are here.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. - madam president! - i have to go. the epp leader said here that the wall is just an investment and the union can support such projects financially. no, this is not just an investment. the union cannot support and cannot finance such ideas. more than 1,800 scientists and more than 160 ngos from around the world called on the commission in february of this year to stop the construction of this wall, because the construction and the wall itself are in conflict with protected areas and areas of natural value, because the wall affects natura 2000 areas, because it affects the conservation status of species and habitats, because it will affect the populations of large animals, bison, elk, deer, wolves. the project was not even assessed for its impact on the natural environment of the białowieża forest, in breach of article 6 (3) of the habitats directive. these are fundamental issues. the commission considers that the situation is complex and needs to be analysed. we heard the same thing when the rule of law was broken in poland and hungary. we do not want the commission's negligence to lead to yet another irreversible breach.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the level of infantility - i don't want to say bad will - of the foolish words that have been coming out of the mouths of my predecessors here, is at an all-time high. i would like to make you aware of the nonsense we were dealing with when describing the situation on the polish-belarusian border by various types of representatives of ngos, various types of politicians who ran there like, i don't want to say, clowns with advertising posters, when this first wave of illegal migrants brought by lukashenka, with putin's permission, reached belarus. here we heard about a man named ibrahim, who supposedly sailed the bugi, the border river, for six days in cold water, only coming out at night to warm himself by the fire. we heard about a little kitten, a kitten, who supposedly came to see his lady or his man from afghanistan. come on, people, get a grip on yourselves! there are limits to no-nonsense and stupidity. we're dealing with a hybrid war. if we had allowed the polish border guard, if poland had allowed this first stage of the war that putin is waging in ukraine today, we would not have poor refugees in poland - because no one from yemen, nigeria, chad, afghanistan, syria reached the polish-belarusian border on foot, but was, often at their own expense, brought to belarus by lukashenko. it was to destabilize the situation in poland before putin's attack on ukraine. and today, poles would not be so open to real war refugees if smuggled chechens, afghans - because we know this from the services of various countries - were prepared to conduct destructive activities on the territory of poland. and today i really bow to the polish border guards, the polish army, the polish police for how effectively they protect europe, also from such irresponsible, not to say harsh, unwise people like those who utter such nonsense from this platform.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the białowieża forest is an incredibly precious natural site. protected by the natura 2000 and world heritage regimes, it is one of the last old-growth forests in europe. it is home to thousands of different species. the białowieża forest is an irreplaceable area for biodiversity conservation, due to its size, protection status and substantially undisturbed nature. and precisely this forest is now under heavy attack as a 186 kilometres long and 5.5 metres tall wall is being built right through its heart. steel, concrete and razor wire will block this key ecological corridor. the migration of wolves, lynx, bison and elk will become completely impossible, with dire consequences for their survival. this wall is illegal: no impact assessment has been carried out, even though it is prescribed by the habitats directive. there are alternatives too, and the so—called mitigation measures proposed by the polish authorities are utterly inadequate. this wall is deeply unethical too. there is no justification for labelling this wall as a proportionate measure for border control while exhausted migrants are losing their lives because of it. we have a duty to protect the fundamental rights of all refugees, including those chased into the białowieża forest. commissioner, do you agree that this wall is illegal and should be stopped? and what will you do to achieve that? i am warning the commission that claiming that it is a matter of national competence will not do! that is totally inadequate and disregards eu laws. as the guardian of the treaties and the eu acquis, the commission has a duty and obligation to act. i would also like to know: what is the status of the infringement procedure that the commission started in 2021 about the failure of poland to stop the logging of this unique białowieża forest? when are you going to take the next step? what are you waiting for? i urge the commission to do whatever it takes to halt the construction of this wall, and to remedy the negative consequences that it has already inflicted. the białowieża forest needs to be protected: no walls, no logging, and no violation of fundamental human rights. it’s as simple as that.
a uachtaráin, ar an dteorainn idir an bhealarúis agus an pholainn, is an fhorais białowieża, a forests chianaosta, a place where there are many species of trees, a special place where we have a chaomhnú. but despite the laws, it is a place where a dictator lukashenko, like putin, is trying to destroy the european union and playing cruel games with the world's poorest people to get revenge. there is a polish line in front of belarus and a russian one. we have to understand that we have to be very careful to give them the benefit of the doubt that they have already given about 3 million to the enemy in ukraine. it is without doubt, that we stand to give our thanks to the brave human spirit of the defenders in the ring.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. two weeks ago, facebook announced that it had blocked accounts created by the belarusian and russian kgb. russian agents posed as journalists for activists to stoke tensions over the crisis on the polish-belarusian border. according to facebook, these fictitious people posted content critical of poland in english, polish, and kurdish, including photos and videos of polish border guards allegedly violating the rights of migrants. mr. biedron, mrs. thun, mrs. spurek, do you really not know what russian propaganda is? why are you swallowing her like a carp? just to desperately break through. you have the security of the borders of the republic, the security of the borders of the union, you have the security of the border guard officers, who are still brutally attacked. it is with sadness that i hear what you are saying today and what you are repeating, also in this chamber: these are russian lies and anti-polish propaganda. facebook has shut down russian accounts, but the russian lies continue. the brutal attack on ukraine by russia has made everyone aware of the importance of properly securing the european union's borders against any attempts to destabilise them. let's face it, this is a big deal. i'm not going to let you down. we shouldn't be debating the wall today, because it's obvious. there is no alternative, we cannot move the borders. i'm sure the polish government will respond. today, we need help for ukrainian refugees who are in poland.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. poles have been taking care of their forest for hundreds of years, which is why you can say today that it is so unique. it is no different now, with a wall being built to protect against illegal immigration, war and human trafficking. the whole procedure is under the absolute supervision of the environmental services, who monitor this building every day, do analysis every day. the whole wall is designed to protect nature and allow water to flow. the forestry sector is responsible for the management of the forest and for the management of the forest. where were you when nord stream 1 and nord stream 2 were being built? i didn't hear the alarm, how it's destroying the environment and how it's making wars financially possible.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the commission calls for full compliance with the eu environmental legislation to protect the exceptional natural value of the białowieża forest. the commission has sent a letter and asked the polish authorities about the compliance of this project with eu environmental legislation, and we will keep the european parliament informed. please also accept my apologies for the delay in the reply to the letter sent by 49 members of this parliament on this matter. you will receive a reply soon.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. legitimate concerns about the preservation of biodiversity, the environment and forest resources cannot be used as a pretext for harpooning poland, which is facing a major wave of migration. this situation also underlines the need for new provisions on asylum applications. this is all the more true since lithuania, faced with similar circumstances, has proposed that asylum applications be lodged at the border crossing, thus giving its officers a mission to prevent entry. the austrian chancellor had called for the construction of a border wall in austria. as the uk is showing a willingness to take action on migration control, as evidenced by its recent agreement with rwanda, the cards also need to be turned in continental europe. it is also absurd to denigrate warsaw, given its generosity towards ukrainian refugees. poland needs our support more than ever to achieve a just solution that respects people, such as the last remaining primary forest in europe. thank you.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! since july 2021, in defense of its own territory and the borders of the european union, poland has been facing a migration crisis on the border with belarus. in response to the eu sanctions imposed on belarus, president alexander lukashenko threatened not to stop drug and human traffickers and armed migrants from entering the european union, confirming the deliberate provocation of the crisis. in november 2021, lithuania and latvia began construction of walls and a dam to protect their borders with belarus from the influx of illegal immigrants from afghanistan and middle eastern countries. has the european parliament debated the environmental impact of these buildings in these countries ? the difference is that in the lithuanian and latvian parliaments, decisions on state security are taken almost unanimously. in poland, we are dealing with an opposition that deliberately challenges the decisions of the democratically elected polish government and, by manipulating the state, exposes poland to unfounded attacks. as a member of the european parliament, i am offended by the fact that poland's internal affairs are being discussed again in the european forum. in the case of the wall on the border with belarus, we are also talking about the borders of the european union. should there be a debate on this? you have to think about it. are there any arguments that would undermine any decision taken by the polish government based on the issue of its own and intra-community security?
in writing. - madam president! - i have to go. thank you for not forgetting that in the face of the war in ukraine and the migration crisis in poland, we are also facing the issue of a 186-kilometer wall, the construction of which is exacerbating the difficult humanitarian situation on the polish-belarusian border. as you can see, the polish government treats refugees according to different standards depending on where they come from. this is, as i have repeatedly said, a violation of international law in the form of the geneva convention. we cannot accept that we welcome refugees from ukraine with open arms and put a wall in front of others. so i ask: why does the commission still allow afghans, kurds or iraqis to be sentenced to death in the forest? why has no further infringement procedure been initiated in this case? we know from history that building a wall is never a good idea. we remember the fate of the berlin wall or the wall that was supposed to be built on the border between the united states and mexico. fortunately, the plan failed. this wall, which is intended to effectively divide the białowieża forest in half, will cause damage to the environment and habitats of protected species: wolf, lynx and bison, which extend beyond poland's borders. animal migration routes will be blocked, which may lead to the extinction of the lynx population in the polish part of the forest. the wall also threatens the bialowieza forest's continued unesco world heritage status, as it will have a negative impact on the entire forest ecosystem and many key natural processes.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i think that i can say not only in the name of the epp that today we were impressed by president maia sandu’s statement – a very strong and brave leadership. this is something that we also need to cooperate with moldovan society, and i think that the anticipated bright future is achievable. we can do it together, and candidate country status has to be granted as soon as possible, at the same time as it should be for ukraine. it’s very important. it’s a political decision. but as dragoş tudorache said, there are many challenges. we are facing many tough, complicated reforms. i’m very glad to see this strong leadership because many things are done. but, of course, a long list of projects are still on the list and have to be done. so, dear commission, there is another request: a support group for the republic of moldova is needed within the eu structure, in a similar way like for ukraine. moldova is important for our common security. it is also our benefit to have moldova as a secure well—developed country within our family, and we have to do it as fast as we can. so, for the president, the confirmation from the house: yes, you are a part of europe. long live moldova! long live europe with moldova together!
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, please! the war in ukraine, the threat of escalation, and the enormous economic problems are part of the daily life of moldova today. yet moldova has taken in half a million refugees from ukraine, half a million in a country of two and a half million people. moldova proves every day that politically and mentally it is part of europe. its citizens have made their choice, they have voted for president maia sandu, and they have therefore voted for europe. moldova is a strong link in the eastern partnership. i'm sure that with the war in ukraine, we need to pay more attention to stabilizing the entire region. moldova needs material support, of course, but what it really needs is hope. the creation of a real european perspective for moldova is both a moral duty and an expression of political wisdom.
madam president, commissioner reynders, from the moment when this european parliament, with its decisive impulse, overcame the embryonic phase of commitment to the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union, to the moment when this debate, which is now a regular, customary debate, the debate on the report on the rule of law submitted annually by the commission, has become an institution of this european parliament, we have really covered the ground. and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs welcomes this new report from the commission and regards it positively, pointing out, of course, that the widening of the spectrum of concerns it deals with is still pending so that it does not only deal with the functioning of judicial systems - that of course - the fight against corruption or information pluralism, but also includes all forms of abuse of power, including non-discrimination in access to a fair trial or including prison conditions as well: these are additional elements. but above all it underlines the importance of the commission, in its annual report. first, it distinguishes between what are serious and systematic violations of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights - so that we differentiate with respect to those countries which are subject to the article 7 procedure and, incidentally, also under the rule of law conditionality focus - and those which raise concrete or specific problems, but which in no case involve a systematic violation, or a clear risk of violation of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. and secondly, it also allows us to address the shortfall in concrete proposals for improvement so that the report includes specific recommendations in each chapter per country in which those countries with specific problems in complying with the principles enshrined in article 2 are pointed out the way to improve their institutions, the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the european union is an association of sovereign and independent states which have transferred powers explicitly defined in the treaties to the community. unfortunately, over time, unelected officials without any democratic mandate have given themselves the right to decide for themselves which competences belong to the community and which to the member states. and so the rule of law problem was born. the internal reforms and the structure of the state have never been left to the eu institutions to assess. the commission's rule of law report is not enshrined in the treaties. it is biased, one-sided and serves to attack member states, for example by repeating 'fake news' (for example about the situation on the polish-belarusian border) or reports of the council of europe, which russia was a member of a few months ago. ladies and gentlemen, this report gives credence to russian propaganda and disinformation about what happened at the border. this is a scandal. on the one hand, the commission uses this report to attack poland for reforms in the judiciary and the breakdown of the caste system of the judiciary, and on the other hand, the report failed to condemn france for breaking the embargo and supplying arms to russia, or the netherlands for violating the right to assembly and dispersing demonstrations, or finally germany for the growing anti-semitism, which even eu agencies warn about in their reports. why is that? i'm almost finished. because poland speaks to us of a federalist vision of europe. nothing you do will change our attitude, because the poles have national sovereignty in their hearts and freedom in their blood.
madam president, pis europeans: how is it that on the one hand you go on a weekly pilgrimage to brussels after christmas, and on the other hand you are completely indifferent to whether polish citizens receive european funds? how's that? are you doing this out of stupidity or calculation? you were elected to protect the rights of citizens, to protest when someone tampers with the integrity of the judicial process, to try to make life a little easier for citizens in these difficult times, to intervene when someone illegally surveils citizens. that's what you were elected to do, and you chose a private and toxic relationship with ziobra over your own citizens. this relationship costs poland millions of euros every day. we in the opposition know who we're dealing with. and that's why with the platform, poland 2050 and the left mps, we have made an amendment to the report in question. the idea is to make the funds available directly to local government and private entities. in paragraph 57, we call on the commission to come up with a legislative proposal so that, if the rule of law mechanism is used, eu money reaches the people of poland. unlike you, the people in poland just need the money. let them catch their breath. zbigniew ziobro, especially his "deforms" must eventually go. (the speaker agreed to reply to the speech by raising the blue card)
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. - madam president, the president of the council! you use a lot of generalities when it comes to the functioning of the polish state. i have a polite request to you and this is the first question: please tell me which of the ministers of the previous government has an indictment due to the corruption situation? which one of the ministers? and the second question: can you name any company with polish capital, any entrepreneur, any entrepreneur from outside poland, who is using eu funds in poland, who is suspected of corruption, who is misusing eu funds? i ask you this question because olaf, the eu's anti-corruption agency, speaks very positively and flatteringly about how poland is using eu funds. so i have two questions: which minister has an indictment and which company or which entrepreneur stole eu money in poland?
response to an emergency signalled by the raising of a blue card. but, mr ambassador, this debate is about the rule of law, not about spending eu funds, so please don't turn the cat's tail. that's the answer to the first question. as for the second question, mr. postle, as i said, this debate is about the rule of law, about the fact that the disciplinary chamber should finally be abolished and then the money will simply go to the polish citizens. that's the truth.
madam president! i'm polish. i am proud to be polish, and of course i can listen to the lies that are being told about poland by people, by meps, who have no idea about the polish legal system, have no elementary knowledge of what is happening in poland in the world of law. but i will give you two examples because mr kohut did not want to answer my question. the only minister accused of corruption is former minister sławomir s. from the civic platform. this is a party that is a member of the ppe. he's the only accused former minister in poland. there is also another very drastic case, which concerns journalists in poland. well, in 2014, when poland was ruled by the civic platform, the internal security agency entered the editorial office of the weekly wprost, tied the hands of journalists, wanted to take their computers and forcibly removed them from their own editorial office. why don't you give these examples, even though you can't give a single example of corruption in present-day poland, in the years 2016-2021.
in writing. the european treaties clearly define the competences of the european union for the benefit of the community. they do not say that european officials have the right to define the rule of law in relation to the member states. if the european commission report does not have treaty power, do you think it should have any operative power? do you think it is fair to treat member states differently in terms of the rule of law? does the european commission's report include france's supply of arms to russia despite the embargo? will this report contain information about the violation of the right to assembly in the netherlands? you attack poland for reforms in the judiciary, without having either a mandate or the competence to act in this area. curiously, according to eurostat, poland is the country that has been the fastest to recover its gdp after the covid-19 pandemic. poland, which has not received the funds for the national reconstruction plan until today, because you have combined it with your selective rule of law mechanism. do you really not see the absurdity of this situation? think about where this is going. stop attacking the democratically elected polish government and focus on working effectively for the european union while there is still time to save the word cooperation.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me thank you all for your relentless efforts in supporting the people of belarus. it is clear that the european union remains united in the face of the continued brutal oppression by the lukashenko regime in its support for the belarusian people. today there are almost 1 200 political prisoners throughout the country, on top of the many thousands who have been detained over the last 18 months for exercising their democratic rights. the brave leaders and activists of the democratic opposition in belarus are also under sustained attack. many, like viktar babaryka and maryia kalesnikava, are already in prison on politically motivated charges. just this month, sofia sapega, the girlfriend of blogger roman protasevich, who were both detained after the belarussian authorities forced their flight to land in minsk in may last year, was sentenced to six years in prison. opposition leaders forced into exile, including sviatlana tsikhanouskaya, pavel latushko, and countless others, are facing very serious criminal charges in their absence. the recent assaults on trade union leaders is another illustration of lukashenko’s systematic effort to silence all remaining independent voices in the country. the european union has stood by the people of belarus from the very beginning of their legitimate struggle for democratic freedom. since august 2020, the european union has committed about eur 65 million in direct support to the people of belarus. among the beneficiaries are victims of repression, civil society, independent media, [inaudible] small businesses, health and culture. civil society actors on the front line have received emergency assistance to resist the regime’s repressive actions. the european union’s support has been essential to ensure their safety, maintain their financial and organisational stability in the context of forced liquidation or relocation, and preserve firm grounding in the country. independent media inside and outside of belarus are exposed to growing threats. thanks to our financial support, independent journalists and social media influencers continue to tell the truth and reach their audiences in belarus. belarussian students who were forced to leave the country or unable to continue their studies in belarus are now benefiting from the opportunity to study in the european union. work on the next assistance package is ongoing to provide further support to civil society, [inaudible] victims of repression and small and medium-sized enterprises in exile. this is a clear demonstration of the eu’s long-term commitment to the people of belarus. in parallel, we have also suspended all of our engagement with the central authorities, including at the technical or expert level. this, combined with our robust sanctions regime, isolates the belarusian authorities and shows that they cannot act with impunity. this is important, especially following the support of lukashenko’s regime for the russian war against ukraine. finally, we have been supporting the international accountability platform for belarus, which has been gathering and preserving evidence of human rights violations committed in belarus. let me assure you, we will not forget the victims of lukashenko’s regime. thank you very much for your support and for your attention. i will, of course, follow your debate and try to understand what more can be done on the basis of your observations.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, we cannot and must not forget about the involvement of the lukashenko regime in russia’s brutal and unprovoked war against ukraine. lukashenko now has used his country as a launchpad in a war of aggression. he is extending the use of the death penalty and there is now the prospect of nuclear weapons being deployed in belarus. furthermore, lukashenko is also fully responsible for the continued brutal and systematic crackdown against his own people. as the commissioner just said, there are 1 200 political prisoners, and 40 000 people were detained since 2020. the recent systematic persecution of trade unionists shows that lukashenko is willing to do whatever it takes to suppress the remaining organised voices of dissent and supporters of a democratic belarus. turning to the future, it should be abundantly clear that we cannot treat the lukashenko regime any differently from putin’s. we must understand belarus has now become putin’s pawn in his efforts to target the eu, whether as a gateway for artificial mass migration, disinformation, energy manipulation, cyberattacks or illegal smuggling. lukashenko is famous for being as slippery as an eel. we must make sure he does not escape full responsibility this time.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, dictator lukashenko, a vassal of the russian world, wants to erase belarus’ statehood and independence. civil society, human rights and political pluralism have no place in lukashenko’s vision for the future of belarus. the result of his almost three decades of rule: free—thinking and pro—european belarusians are forced to seek refuge abroad. having crushed and imprisoned the political opposition, lukashenko has now set his sights on the independent trade unions that defy him. the political persecution and imprisonment of trade union activists is completely unacceptable, and requires our strong response. it is clear that lukashenko can only be stopped by sanctions and the further isolation of the belarusian regime. let us not make the mistakes of the past, when it was thought that dialogue with him would reconcile the democratic choice. lukashenko is just a vassal of putin and will not become anything else. his attempt to balance himself and to seek contact with the outside world is merely an attempt to survive. colleagues, while being critical about belarus regime, i strongly believe in the european future of the belarusian people. and very finally, let us not forget the nuclear power plant in astravyets on the eu border, which threatens the whole of europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! we have discussed the regime in belarus here many times, adopted draft resolutions, decided to impose economic sanctions, trade restrictions, and sanctions on lukashenka himself and his immediate family. what's the matter? the president of belarus is once again laughing in our faces, ignoring the european union, ignoring the international labour organization, to which the 18 representatives of the belarusian democratic trade union congress who were detained in mid-april belong. lukashenko has been inciting hybrid attacks on the border, boycotting democratic elections, supporting russia's military actions against ukraine. he's shut down nearly 400 civil society organizations, cast railroad workers as terror suspects for sabotaging arms shipments to russia. i remind you that the belarusian senate recently approved amendments that make committing or even attempting to commit a terrorist act punishable by death. ladies and gentlemen, four belarusian railway workers are facing execution for attempting to prevent the delivery of weapons to the russian army committing heinous crimes in ukraine. putin's example clearly shows that condemning and turning a blind eye to the regime, or even imposing sanctions, is not enough. to end the lawlessness and terror of the lukashenka dictatorship, concrete action is needed support for civil society organisations, trade union representatives and the opposition. in a nutshell, less talk, more action. i wish that for all of us.
madam president, dear commissioner, it was only yesterday on 17 may that maksim poznyakov, vice-president of the belarusian independent trade union, the bkdp, was arrested by the belarusian state authorities – and he was only elected four days ago to replace the colleagues who were already in jail. i think we see a pattern here. over the past few months, trade union leaders in belarus have been arrested. their headquarters have been searched and their members are being spied upon. this is an attack on all belarusian workers and a violation of their rights. the freedom of association and the right to organise are non—negotiable. and therefore, we call for the immediate and unconditional release of all leaders and members of the trade unions in belarus and for all charges against them to be dropped.
mr. president, we have treated with too much levity what is happening beyond our borders. we have overlooked the obvious violation of fundamental rights too easily. we have given too little support to those who are fighting for the values of the european union even if they are outside it. belarus has for many years been a state that has turned against its own citizens. and romania knows, unfortunately, all too well what that means. the romanians know all too well what it's like to wait for help that never comes. in belarus, any opposition is now violently suppressed by the pro-russian lukashenka regime. many fight in exile others resist in prison. they all hope to receive practical help. just strong condemnation in speeches and social media posts doesn't help them. civil society, opposition representatives, and belarusians with votes ignored and rights violated are waiting for the union as a united europe to stand by them. we can't let them down. we cannot give up on those who do not give up on the fight for democracy.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. yes, this humanitarian and political crisis in belarus has gone on far too long. thousands of persecuted people in prisons is just proof that we are too slow, too inconsistent. the european parliament has adopted a number of very specific resolutions on action, and yet there is still persecution of various professional, social and national groups. andrei pochobut is in prison. he was sentenced to several years just because he's polish. my friend siarhei korszun was sentenced to four and a half years for basically nothing, because he didn't even write any online, and his family is suffering. some of the prisoners are under 18, others are over 70. sentenced to many years in camps. what's the matter? as parliament we have proposed a high-level committee, a conference, which the european council should support. we're collecting files from the afet and droi commissions, collecting thousands of names of people responsible for crimes. we need to put lukashenko on trial, because he deserves to be on trial. but this requires the cooperation of all member states. and again, i'm speaking to those who are absent. europe, please! yes, the european parliament is the ambassador of the voice of free belarusians, but europe, you must act! long live the free belarus! long live free and democratic belarus!
madam president, it is precisely one year ago today that the tut.by website was shut down: 15 arrests followed by subsequent constructed convictions, the dictator’s well—known playbook. by now, we not only speak about lukashenko’s illegitimate regime holding hostage an entire population, but lukashenko is also fully complicit in putin’s gruesome war and all war crimes that were committed, and he will be held accountable for this. prosecution of opposition figures, trade union leaders and other critical voices shows the regime’s weakness, turning against his own people. but the brave belarus people resisting will prevail. we are here to send our support to all representatives of the belarusian democratic opposition, to union leaders and all the other 1 203 political prisoners, like viasna’s ales bialiatski. we assure you: we have not forgotten about belarus and about you, you will get your country back, and your freedom.
i have to say, madam president, in belarus we have recently witnessed a violent agitation against trade unions and their representatives. a feud that has been going on for years, but which escalated in april when at least 18 union leaders were jailed. it was allegedly to disturb public order, but in reality to be critical of the belarusian government. several of them are now facing long prison sentences. in belarus, trade unions have played a vital role in the struggle for a free and democratic belarus. i therefore condemn the arrests. terrorising trade unions is a direct attack on fundamental rights and must have consequences. i fully support the eu's efforts to help the belarusian trade unions. because they must know that the european union will always support freedom, peace and democracy. i therefore call on the belarusian regime to release immediately all trade union leaders, drop all charges and respect the ilo conventions.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the illegitimate regime of aleksander lukashenko continues to terrorise and oppress the belarusian people. today, there are over 1 200 political prisoners in belarus and 275 civil society and human rights organisations and numerous media outlets have been closed down. i want to especially mention the case of my brave friend, pavel seviarynets, who has already spent nearly 10 years in lukashenko’s jails and who, a year ago, was sentenced to seven more years. it is because of brave people like pavel, who every day pay a terrible personal sacrifice that we mustn’t forget about the plight of the belarusian people. on the contrary, as we continue to support the people of ukraine in the face of russian aggression, we must also redouble our support for the people of belarus, because we cannot have free and sovereign ukraine without a free and sovereign belarus.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. one thing is certain: there will be no free, secure europe, no european union without a free, secure, independent belarus. unfortunately, we as the european union have not learned this lesson, because for all the years of lukashenka's rule, we naively believed that lukashenka could be civilized. unfortunately, that's not what happened. hope is in brave people like the unionists we're discussing today. i come from the country of solidarity, the country that created the world's largest workers' movement, which was overthrown by the forces of communism. that's the power of trade unions, also in belarus. only these people cannot be left alone and that is why the european union must do its job. it has to give these people hope, it has to commit to concrete things, to lay out a road map for belarus, to show what the next steps are going to be. unfortunately, we continue to fail belarusians and belarusian women in this matter. - the white man lives.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, what we are debating today is, i believe, badly needed progress on the global level to address tax avoidance, tax evasion and unfair tax competition. in my view, it is a great success that more than 100 countries have signed up to this agreement. my dear colleague ms lalucq said that this is an historical agreement, and i tend to agree. as is clear, this is not an eu proposal, it is the implementation of a global agreement. i firmly believe that the approach taken by the commission, to avoid gold-plating and efforts to improve the text, was the right one and it has my full support. i am also glad that after the debate that ms lalucq has described, we are presenting to the plenary a text that simply confirms that we support this global agreement, and we believe we should move forward. and i must express gratitude to our rapporteurs’ team that we were able, after some discussion, to get to this stage. the european parliament only provides the opinion. it is a matter for the council to agree, but i guess it’s very important what kind of message we send to the council and also to the europeans. i hope that the message will be first an urgent call for the council to go forward without hesitation, to approve and start to implement the agreement; secondly, i believe it should be a signal of the great appreciation of europeans that there is an ability to find a global agreement on such an important topic; and last not least, i believe it should be an urgent call on other countries to go forward and implement this. i hope parliament will provide this signal tomorrow, with a very strong majority. once more, let me say thank you for the good cooperation with the other rapporteurs.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president! - i have to go. parliament is likely to adopt the report on the minimum cit for large corporations by a large majority. the 26 states in the union also agree to the compromise proposed by france. only poland is a party to the case. the authorities in warsaw are on the side of large multinational companies from special economic zones or tax havens, not on the side of smaller polish companies. they just like to take pictures with them. the pis government portrays poland as uncompromising, an insulting young lady. the poles are showing the rulers what real cooperation and community building looks like by opening their homes to their neighbors from ukraine. mr morawiecki, what are you doing? in your official communication, rather than in the media, you mention other countries that oppose the provisions of the directive. meanwhile, only poland is shutting it down. to quote a band that you know and we both love, "where are they, all your friends?" they're all gone. - there you go.
in writing. recognising the importance and value of the international agreement on the oecd pillar ii, i am opposed to the rapid adoption of the implementing directive in its current form. my doubts are as follows: the adoption of the directive should be conditional upon the completion of the international work on the oecd pillar i. the european union should not move faster than the international community to tax reform without ensuring that the largest multinational corporations are properly taxed under pillar i. therefore, the effective operation of pillar i and pillar ii is conditional on the consideration of them as a package. there are at least two ways to do this. the first is to add provisions to the directive making its entry into force conditional on the ratification by a sufficient number of countries (the so-called critical mass) of an international convention implementing pillar i. the second method is to reach a political agreement that the eu will not proceed with the directive in question at least until the so-called critical mass in pillar i is clarified. 2.i have serious doubts about the scope of application of the income-based income (iir) rule proposed by the commission. the irb should apply to all eligible entities irrespective of their member state of residence. this will help to combat discrimination and allow the full realisation of the principles of freedom. in turn, in the spirit of the oecd globe standard companies operating in only one member state should not be covered by the iir.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. europeans need to constantly update their knowledge, skills and competences to bridge the gap between education and training and the demands of a rapidly changing labour market. the covid-19 crisis has led to a sudden increase in the demand for short and tailored learning opportunities. this need for new forms of learning has led to a growing interest in micro-experience. we therefore welcome the three commission initiatives to develop by 2025 a european approach to micro-experience, personalised training accounts and learning for environmental sustainability in the european education area. they will help to expand learning opportunities, deepen mutual recognition, and create links with the digital and ecological transformation. they also aim to strengthen the role of higher education and vocational education and training institutions in lifelong learning. as we know, successful career development, inclusion and integration are highly dependent on the development of skills and competences. they help people adapt to change, succeed and engage. skills are also crucial for economic growth. i hope that the initiatives presented will help to ensure that everyone has access to education at any point in their lives and that it is flexible. we, as the european parliament, support this idea.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to say that i fully share and support the position presented by commissioner reynders. i thank him for mentioning that poland is one of the first countries to start investigating russian crimes. this is not putin's war, this is russia's war. i believe that russia should be charged and convicted for crimes of aggression, for violating international law. we should prosecute and judge political and military decision makers, prosecute and judge propagandists, political officers who incite crime, prosecute soldiers for the crime. but we also need to provide technology to detect perpetrators, such as social media calls and posts, and we need to provide technology, mobile labs and dna tests to examine bodies of both victims and perpetrators.
ladies and gentlemen! ladies and gentlemen! today is the 85th anniversary of putin's invasion of ukraine. as we speak in this chamber, the russians continue to deliberately target civilians, schools, hospitals and homes. war crimes are also on the rise. these include murder, rape, smuggling and the use of illegal weapons. it is very worrying that over a million ukrainian citizens were forcibly deported to russia, and a significant number of them - about half a million - to siberia and the arctic circle. this is information provided by president zelensky. the security service of ukraine has reported that the identity of 1140 russians who committed various crimes against the civilian population has been established. our duty is to help ukraine bring to justice and punish all those who committed war crimes, including their commanding officers. victims of crime need to know that everyone will be punished and justice will be served.
mr president, once again, i’m calling on the commission to act on the call from this parliament for an eu action plan on impunity. it was called for in a resolution this time last year in the context of a resolution on syria, and nothing has happened since. it is critically important, for the very obvious reason demonstrated by the caesar trials in koblenz, that each eu member state takes a very different approach to principles of international law, such as universal jurisdiction. in some member states, they have a different approach to immunities, they have a different approach to the statute of limitations, they have a different approach to the type of crime that triggers a prosecution under war crimes. so we need an eu action plan on impunity that addresses the fragmented approach taken by eu member states.
mr. speaker, the house of lords! the russians, in the name of russia, are committing atrocious crimes in ukraine, murdering people, destroying the cultural heritage of a thousand-year-old country. today we must do everything we can to make russia pay for these crimes. and when this conflict is over, we must remember that the sanctions imposed on russia can only be lifted when russia pays for all these crimes, when all the criminals are punished. russia must be defeated.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must first of all thank you for this debate and for your commitment to the ukrainian people. this commitment has been expressed since the beginning of the russian aggression in ukraine. in these conclusions, i would like to return to today's priorities in the fight against impunity and the few elements that we are trying to put in place or promote to fight against this impunity. first of all, i would like to thank you in particular for your efforts to examine, in a very short time, the proposal to amend the eurojust regulation. i am confident that your parliament will vote on this text today. this shows a very great speed and a real will to move forward effectively, because every day there is a growing risk that evidence which could help bring to justice those responsible for the atrocities committed is lost or permanently destroyed. it is therefore crucial to adopt and implement this legislation as quickly as possible, given the situation on the ground. the second element i want to mention is the support for the ukrainian authorities, in particular the prosecutor general, irina venediktova, and the international criminal court. the international criminal court has already benefited from a number of financial supports, from member states or the union, and i believe it is important to continue to support the work of the international criminal court, as indeed the ukrainian authorities. i have had the opportunity to ask all the european ministers of justice to look at what expertise would be useful to send to ukraine. i am thinking in particular of forensic doctors, there are more and more of them in the field. i also believe that we must continue to work on the dispatch of security equipment, because the conditions for the investigation are very dangerous at the moment on the ground in ukraine. it is also necessary to consider how to secure communications between investigators and the various experts on the ground. we will therefore continue to work in this direction to strengthen our approaches to the ukrainian authorities, as well as to the criminal court. the third element i want to return to is the joint investigation team. i would like to emphasise that this is the best way of coordinating the activities between the ukrainian authorities and the authorities of the member states which have expressed their wish - i mentioned them earlier - to participate in this joint investigation team, as well as the authorities of the international criminal court. this is the first time that the international criminal court has participated in such an initiative. and i would again invite the other member states which have already launched investigations on their own territory on the basis of testimonies or evidence collected to join this joint investigation team. this is really the best way to coordinate the work between the different investigators. finally, i would like to confirm that the commission will continue to consider all possible avenues to combat impunity, in particular in collaboration with several international partners. i am thinking of the united states and britain, but also of others, particularly in the g7, who would like to work in the same direction. i am very confident that we are putting in place tools to fight against impunity. it is possible that this impunity is reflected in a number of the cases you have mentioned. but in any case, in the case of the russian aggression in ukraine that we are dealing with today, one thing is very clear: from the beginning we have been collecting evidence and we will continue to take all possible actions to bring those responsible to justice. it might be tomorrow, it might be next month. maybe it'll be next year. but we will not stop bringing these proceedings before the various member states, before the international courts, to ensure that there is real accountability for the perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity or genocide, whatever the qualifications that courts and tribunals may give in the years to come. i would like to thank you again for your commitment and i can assure you that we will continue this work with great zeal.
with this intervention from the commission, we close this item of the agenda. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. it's incomprehensible that europe has been at war for almost three months and there's no end in sight. with russia's invasion of ukraine, all of our lives have changed, but the changes that have happened to us are nothing compared to what the people living in ukraine are experiencing. in ukraine, millions have been displaced, forced to flee their homes, but what is even more terrible is that thousands have been killed, injured, and have been victims of violence, including children, women, and the elderly. bucsa, irpiny, hostomel, ivankiv and many other ukrainian towns are hiding such terrible human tragedies that must be brought to light as soon as possible! the war crimes committed there must not go unpunished, they must be investigated immediately, their discovery must be urgent, and proven war crimes must be punished most severely! i condemn in the strongest terms the russian military aggression against ukraine and all actions that have resulted in human suffering. this war cannot take any more innocent lives, and we must encourage the parties to sit down immediately to negotiate a ceasefire and begin peace talks. hungary and the hungarian people are interested in peace as soon as possible, and are therefore ready to promote the process of peace negotiations and the independent investigation of war crimes, the recording of crimes!
in writing. war crimes and genocide must not go unpunished. all available means should be used to bring war crimes to light, fully investigate them and hold perpetrators accountable. war crimes are not something that can be undone. we must do everything we can to reject inhumanity and injustice. since the beginning of the russian aggression, we have been faced with such news reports on a daily basis. we need to investigate every case. we cannot ignore the fact that since the beginning of the war, innocent civilians, including more than 200 children, have been killed and more than 400 children have been injured. we pledge our full solidarity with ukraine and the ukrainian people. we strongly support the full investigation of war crimes, the prosecution and conviction of those responsible. we must strive to end the war and restore peace, for the longer the war drags on, the greater the human suffering will be.
in writing. the eu must take all necessary steps to support the investigation of war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide and aggression committed by the russian and belarusian regimes. the perpetrators and the cover-ups of serious war crimes and human rights violations must be brought to justice and held accountable as soon as possible. the eu must support the creation of a special international court to investigate crimes of aggression against ukraine outside the jurisdiction of the international criminal court (icc). the eu must find the necessary human and financial resources as soon as possible, and provide the administrative, investigative and logistical means needed to establish a special court to hold russia's political leaders, military commanders and their allies accountable. the atrocities committed in ukraine, such as indiscriminate bombing of cities, forced displacements, use of prohibited ammunition, attacks on civilians fleeing through pre-arranged humanitarian corridors, executions and sexual violence, constitute violations of international humanitarian law. these may qualify as war crimes, but so far, they've gone unpunished. the eu must act swiftly, as there is a serious risk that evidence of war crimes will be destroyed in the course of the ongoing hostilities.
in writing. most of the victims of today's wars are civilians, mainly women and children. their experiences also include sexual violence, used by perpetrators to achieve military or political goals, to humiliate and show power. because rape is part of a systemic war strategy known for centuries. thus, war rape is neither new nor unique, and sadly, it is common. it continues to occur in the 20th and 21st centuries, as was clearly demonstrated by the wars in the former yugoslavia and rwanda, where soldiers' rape was not an act of insubordination but a way of acting against an enemy, such as a particular ethnic group. yet, even in the 21st century, war rape is often a silent phenomenon. we need a system that takes into account all the destructive consequences that sexual violence against women in wartime brings. a system that puts the needs and rights of victims first and that says stop the cruelty and impunity. a system that includes war injuries and victims, along with the wounded and the dead, as well as the raped. the injustice must be named and punished, and the perpetrators must know they will be punished. because rape is the perpetrator's fault, and the perpetrator should be ashamed, not the victim. and we need to stop saying "she was raped", we need to start saying "he raped".
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, the unilateral cut-off of gas supplies from russia to bulgaria and poland is part of russia's military aggression in ukraine and a testament to the dimensions of the hostile action against europe in terms of undermining europe's energy security and independence. the suspension of deliveries raises a series of questions for bulgaria and poland, but also for the european union as a whole, to find answers to in the coming months. how and to what extent will european solidarity be activated? is the european union capable of responding swiftly, effectively and in the long term to the actions of the russian side? yes, i certainly do. we already have the answer: renew power eu - an ambitious and realistic plan. it is also up to us in the european parliament to see how quickly the 'fit for 55' package is also activated so that we can give the member states and the european commission the tools to do so. but there are issues that concern both bulgaria and poland. are they prepared to counter and drive a package of measures to compensate for the interruption of supplies, accelerate alternative supplies, fill up gas storage, develop a national energy mix with a focus on renewable energy and hydrogen, urgent investments in energy efficiency, explore the possibility of extracting gas within national borders? bulgaria and poland should develop these measures with the support of the european commission. the cutting off of gas supplies to our countries is a shock to households and businesses, but the complete break from our dependence on russian energy supplies is also an opportunity.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! the gas storage agreement that the commissioner was just talking about is very good news. it is good news and we all hope that it will be completed and that we will not be disappointed for a while that, although it was included, it was another declaration that for various reasons is not being followed by various parties. why am i saying this? that's why, ladies and gentlemen, we've already passed several sanctions packages against russia, and we keep meeting and saying that it's not working. the first thing we need is efficiency and solidarity. solidarity is the key word and the key action today. it cannot be that some european leaders behave as if they are more concerned with supporting putin than ukraine and fulfilling the commitments we are making here in the european union. it cannot be that further steps are taken, further drafts of sanctions are drawn up and they are not maintained. so, first of all, we need this solidarity. and it's also the job of all of us to consistently and quickly - because time is of the essence here - to implement these projects and these ideas that are being prepared.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for nearly three months, putin has been waging a bloody and devastating war against ukraine. he doesn't distinguish between military and civilian, between homes and military objects. russia is pouring all of its military capability into one sovereign state. we want to stop the flow of funds to russia so that those funds can't be used for more murders in ukraine. that's why we want to impose an oil embargo and say we will refuse to pay for gas in rubles. but countries in the european union actually continue to buy russian gas. just like the bulgarian government does. others want an exemption from the oil embargo. again, like the bulgarian government. others say they'll veto these sanctions. again, as the bulgarian government does. and some people just pay, and some of them pay in rubles. that's why i'm asking. where are our values today? where's our pick? it is really time for us europeans and our governments to start doing only what we say and saying only what we mean to do.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. thank you for the repowereu plan. we all see that russia is not only fighting a war in ukraine, but also a hybrid war, an energy war with the countries of the european union. russia, knowing that it cannot win with the whole union, attacks individual countries like poland, bulgaria, finland, in order to break up the community of the european union. we can't let that happen. therefore, in accordance with point 42 (7) of the treaty on european union, we must give a common response to the apparent aggression of russia. the answer should be to establish a true energy community. i thank the commission for creating the energy platform and i call for the immediate creation of a common mechanism for the purchase of energy resources, as has been done for the purchase of vaccines. we are already seeing price competition between our countries, which want to quickly become independent from purchasing fuel from russia. joint purchasing will ensure lower fuel prices, diversify supplies and increase europe's energy security.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! the most important thing in any operation is proper assessment and diagnosis. it's the foundation of every action, every invention. today we're talking about the energy crisis in the context of russia's aggression against ukraine. but, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis began before the aggression, and we need to diagnose what was the reason that the pandemic caused the current policy, the one that was announced even today from this podium, to be intensified. we had a crisis during the pandemic, and russian aggression has made it worse. and if we're going to take responsibility for future generations, for those people who are young today, we need to be more aware of what's causing it. because if we're just talking about increasing renewable energy, why don't we understand that if it's that simple? because the problem is deeper, the problem is more important. we want to have electric cars -- and this is a valid proposition -- but we're bringing in ninety-seven percent of the raw materials for these cars, for their batteries. i think we should ask ourselves: what climate package with all the legislation is so good for europe and builds our energy future, but why is it not building energy security for us and for the young and the current generations today? this needs to be better diagnosed and decided so that countries can propose what they have the potential for and what they want to build energy security on first, to do in the bypass time, to develop new technologies and power in renewable energy.
mr. chairman, please! we have already overcome many nationalisms in the european union. not all of them, but a lot. one of the things that we still have to deal with and we have to overcome is energy nationalism. the common responsibility for the citizens of the union and their energy security is as important as the common market. the energy union must finally become a reality. and it's happening right before our eyes: joint gas and fuel purchases, supporting each other's countries and the end of projects like nord stream 2. this is the best time. the moment when the word solidarity ceases to be just a word. the vast majority of member states have looked at energy security issues through the lens of their borders, their economic and financial interests. but this war has turned the tables. the direction we're going -- the green transformation -- is the only right direction. we need more photovoltaics, heat pumps and the development of hydrogen technology. the energy union, energy diversification and solidarity are the cornerstones of a stronger, safer and more integrated europe. i hope jaroslaw kaczynski and his best friend viktor orban will understand this as well.
in writing. most of us agree that we should move away from reliance on russian hydrocarbon supplies as soon as possible. but we don't often agree on how we should achieve that goal. the repowereu plan is part of the programme to achieve this objective. i hope that his assumptions are not ambitious declarations that will not be kept. i hope that the individual countries will not seek an easier way to circumvent the embargo, to obtain raw materials more easily, in contradiction to what is in the interests of our common security, which is to move away from russian energy sources. the proposal that member states should jointly store gas reserves is optimistic, provided that this is approached seriously and responsibly. rapid and measurable action in this area would send a very strong and clear signal: the eu can counter threats, cooperate and become independent of russian supplies. of course, in addition to the urgent actions that are so necessary and desirable, we need, in my opinion, to rethink the long-term goals for the energy future, the climate packages, those often unrealistic assumptions that the current energy crisis is exposing. the example of my country's actions clearly shows that consistent investment in the diversification of energy sources results in greater security for both my country and the region. de-dependence from russian energy sources is not only necessary, but possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for this report because there absolutely must be a normal, new and genuine conversation in the european parliament and the european union about how to respond to such aggression. i remind my fellow communists who live in their own utopia that the war was started by putin and ukraine was attacked by russia, not the other way around. so justifying aggression is simply an embarrassment to this room. but what the european parliament needs to do is to shed its rosy illusions, to take off its rosy glasses and to start thinking about its own security and its own resources. it's obvious that it's not going to work with propellers, it's obvious that it's not going to work with windmills. what we need to do is turn back to nuclear energy, which is clean, sensible and safe. to turn to our own resources, like fossil fuels, to look for our own resources, our own gas, whether it's conventional, shale or some other. and to look for ways in which the european countries can't be blackmailed by any other aggressor, by any other aggressor. that is why we must work in this direction. and i will say again that justifying the aggression and the attacker is shameful.
that concludes this item.
the minutes of today's and yesterday's sittings will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 19 may 2022.
dear colleagues, on friday last week, a train was derailed in bavaria. five passengers lost their lives and forty more were injured, and i know i speak for all the house when i say that our thoughts are with the injured and the relatives of the deceased passengers.
the minutes and the texts adopted at the sittings of 18 and 19 may are available. are there any comments? that does not seem to be the case and therefore that means the minutes are approved.
following the appointment of chrysoula zacharopoulou as minister of state for development, francophonie and international partnerships within the french government, parliament takes note of the vacancy of her seat with effect from 20 may 2022, in accordance with the rules of procedure. i have received notice from the competent french authorities that max orville has been elected member of the european parliament to replace ms zacharopoulou with effect from 20 may 2022. i wish to welcome our new colleague and note that he will take his seat in parliament and on its bodies in full enjoyment of his rights under the conditions provided for in the rules of procedure.
the epp, s&d, renew europe, id and ecr groups and the non-attached members have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. those decisions will be set out of the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
in relation to the decisions by the imco and inta committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) announced on wednesday 18 may, i have received no requests for a vote in parliament, and the committees may therefore start their negotiations.
the itre and econ committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports which constitute the mandates for the negotiations are available on the plenary web page and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2) members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday 7 june by midnight, that the decisions to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote on the decisions to enter into negotiations is made within this deadline, the committees may start negotiations.
the imco committee has transmitted a corrigendum to a text adopted by parliament. pursuant to rule 241(2) that corrigendum will be deemed approved unless, no later than 24 hours after its announcement, a request is made by a political group or members reaching at least the low threshold that it be put to the vote. the corrigendum is available on the plenary web page. its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting.
on the signature of acts, i would like to inform you that since the adjournment of parliament’s session on 19 may, i have signed, together with the president of the council, eight acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. i would also like to inform you that on wednesday i shall sign, together with the president of the council, three acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 2 june pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. we were informed that mr borrell cannot be present in strasbourg, and therefore the question time with the vice-president of the commission/high representative scheduled on tuesday as the third item in the afternoon is taken out of the agenda. and that means that we can now move to changes that have been requested by political groups. first, on tuesday, the verts/ale group, the left group and the renew group have asked that the debate on the council and commission statements on the rule of law and the potential approval of the polish national recovery plan (rrf) be wound up with a resolution. the renew group has asked the for resolution to be voted in june i, and that is this session, whereas the greens and the left groups have asked for the resolution to be voted in june ii. so i’ll give the floor first to stéphane séjourné to move the request on behalf of his group.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, you have probably all followed the news that the commission has given a positive assessment for the rrp of poland last week. and this despite the fact that not even the conditions that the commission set itself were met by the polish government. now we think that this parliament has been a very strong defender of the rule of law in the past, and we would like to continue on this path, and this is why we want to have a resolution where we clearly state our assessment of the situation. if it can be in june one, i think we would also be fine with that. otherwise, for june two. and on a side note, colleagues, i really think that for the debate tomorrow, it is necessary that the commission president is here herself to listen to what parliament has to say.
madam chairman. well, ladies and gentlemen, it is very characteristic that you are among the milestones for poland preparing information that in poland you are not allowed to do what you are allowed to do in your countries. well, you've been harassing poland from the very beginning because you think that the way judges are elected in poland is politicized. but it's exactly the same as in spain. but when we say that it's exactly the same, you're saying, please look at the opinions of the venice commission, which says that yes, in some countries it's the same, but there are countries that have a better culture and a better tradition. i want to ask you if you really think, according to such a racist view, that in poland there is a worse tradition and culture. and among the milestones that poland has to meet, you think right now that poland is free less than other countries. why is it not included in the milestones and why is it not given information that, for example, france should be banned from supplying arms to russia or, for example, germany should be obliged to finally supply arms to ukraine? do you want to defend the rule of law or do you want to defend your cynical nationalist and unrealistic interests? that's what the fight is really about.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the proposals in the report are contrary to articles 174 and 349 of the treaty of lisbon. the declaration is therefore important, pointing out the need to develop integration strategies that will enable the islands to face the challenges and overcome the barriers inherent in their insularity. parliament rightly calls for an evaluation of the strategy for the prevention of natural disasters; calls on the commission to assess the need to adopt a regulation establishing specific measures in the field of agriculture for all islands at nuts 2 and nuts 3 level; stresses the need to continue the implementation of the second cork declaration on better living in rural areas; calls on the commission to maintain the long-term co-financing rate for the outermost regions at 85%; calls for additional budgetary resources to be allocated and for the island package and action plan modelled on the future rural package to be drawn up as soon as possible. the implementation of the above tasks will improve the economic, territorial and social cohesion of the islands in line with the european union's policies.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the use of the most dangerous pesticides in europe is increasing. as a result, europeans are increasingly exposed to toxic substances. we know the negative impact of pesticides on human and animal health, the environment and biodiversity. action is therefore urgently needed to promote and support alternative solutions. europe-wide information campaigns are needed, as farmers often do not know which substances to use to improve food safety. we need to create effective instruments to increase the profitability of non-chemical crops. but is the 50% reduction in pesticide use proposed by frans timmermans, vice-president of the european commission, without taking account of the different circumstances of the member states, the right and fair solution? farmers in central and eastern european countries use several times less pesticides per hectare than in many western european countries. if the reduction is applied equally to each country, many western european countries will still use more protection products than before the reduction, for example poland.
madam president! in that case, commissioner, i'll ask. are the assumptions of the proposed regulation, which i have already mentioned, by the vice-president of the european commission frans timmermans, to reduce pesticides used in agriculture by 50% without taking account of the differences in the conditions of the member states, out of date? should the aim not be to reduce but also to equalise the use of pesticides per hectare in all member states?
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! we're voting on the cbam on wednesday. as rapporteur for the itre committee, i must stress the need to strike the right balance between the european union's climate objectives and the needs of european industry and ordinary citizens. the envi report on cbam is very unrealistic and i would even say potentially destructive, especially for the countries of central and eastern europe, but also for germany, france, italy, the netherlands. companies employing hundreds of thousands of people in europe will not survive if free allocations under the ets are withdrawn too quickly. remember, we have war in ukraine, high inflation and record high energy prices. the flight of emissions, the exodus of european producers to third countries, will only exacerbate this. i would therefore like to address myself to you and draw your attention to amendments nos 201 and 219 tabled on behalf of the itre committee. we propose to start phasing out free co2 allowances two years later than the commission's forecast, i.e. from 2028. that's what the industry expects. this is essential to safeguard jobs in europe. i would like to thank you very much for the compromise we have worked out in the commission. we got it together with s&d, renew and ppe, id, ecr.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european commission and a large part of the european parliament are funding a very expensive and dangerous experiment for europeans. the fit for 55 program is a huge social and economic cost. and most of you are aware of this, but we are still working on solutions that will only deepen energy poverty and poverty in europe and push the competitiveness of the european economy to the sidelines. the european commission is aware of this and has therefore prepared a proposal for a social fund to mitigate these effects. but not only does it not soften the blow, but i also have the impression that it is such a relief to the conscience of the commission, the european bureaucracy, that we have prepared a fund to protect the europeans, and that will not happen. we must take care of the climate, we must change the european energy system, but ladies and gentlemen, this is not the time, this is not the moment, and we must first of all adapt the instruments to the capabilities of the european people. now, first of all, there is the war in ukraine and we have to take care of the security, including the energy security of europe.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, it is clear for me that the future is clean. it couldn’t be green, but clean for sure. that’s clear for me. and i believe that is not the responsibility only of the younger generation, but their parents’ generation as well. we should all contribute to that, and i know that it’s meaningful action if only the rest of the world is following, otherwise is just something that we are going to do – a hard exercise which going to pay a high price with suspicious results at the end. but i am sure that our diplomacy will do its best to make the rest of the world to follow. now, the only thing that i would like to see more is to treat our industry as a partner, not as a criminal which is poisoning our environment. because let’s be honest, the input from millions of european families are provided by european industry, not by european institutions. so we have to treat them equally and pay attention of what price they are supposed to pay for our policies that we are making.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers! i shall concentrate on the cbam border fee instrument. this is obviously the logical solution in the face of the eu's drastically tightened climate policy. it is our duty to protect the eu market. moreover, we are introducing this tax quite cautiously, it only applies to certain imported goods, we have a transitional period, but we must realize that the announcement of the intention to introduce it will cause prices to rise. i have two serious objections to this instrument. firstly, it must be a solution, or it is a tax solution, and therefore requires unanimity. you can't try to circumvent that unanimity by suggesting an environmental charge. secondly, there is no doubt that the abolition of free allowances in the so-called sensitive sectors will cause a drastic increase in the prices of these products. and yet we are dealing with a huge increase in the price of energy, including agricultural raw materials, so for example a drastic increase in the price of fertilizers, which translates into the price of food products, and thus inflation. and we have to take that into account.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. today we're discussing the key elements of the fit for 55 package: reform of the ets, the social climate fund to help those most at risk of energy exclusion, and finally the introduction of a carbon cap. i would like to thank mr chaim and the other co-rapporteurs very warmly, because we have largely eliminated the shortcomings in the report presented by the committee and closed the loopholes that allowed this mechanism to be avoided. we believe that it must be centralised, otherwise importers will look for the weakest link in the union customs system and bring in most of the goods covered by the mechanism. i can't agree with mohammad chahim on one thing, though. the mechanism we're proposing is novel, and no one knows whether, despite all the work we've put into securing it, it will work as it should. and we know he won't protect the exporters. therefore, in the ppe we believe that we cannot prematurely withdraw free ets allowances for companies covered by the cbam. we are talking about decarbonising industry, not deindustrialising europe. we had to vote against the regulation in the envi committee for that reason, but i believe that, as in the vote on the own-initiative report, there will be a majority in favour of a sensible solution in tomorrow's vote, which was supported by the majority of the political groups in the itre committee.
thank you, mr president, and thank you, commissioner. we live in a divided world today. and a dangerous world. more than in a very long time, with increasing global hunger, with 100 million refugees, with war in europe. all these crises have different causes, but our fossil-fuel dependence is definitely adding more wood to the fire. the now-expanding eu ets is europe’s flagship programme and perhaps the world’s sharpest climate tool to reduce emissions. there will be many beautiful speeches here today, more of them and all about how we are so responsible to tackle the climate change. i urge you to look past that and look instead to the vote tomorrow. look closely at it, because it will be the european masters on how we vote in europe for climate. will the nice words in support the climate actually be worth anything when serious and concrete measures are on the table? that is what this is about. we have clear alternatives on our table. either we go faster than the commission when reducing our emissions, just as we did in the envi meeting of two weeks ago. or we delay, we delay the reduction of the cap into a more distant future. either we support a generous compromise to phase out free allowances to ’30-32, or we go slower than the commission’s proposal. either we support the ets 2 – for buildings, transport, with massive social safeguards to save the social climate fund – or we throw both climate and energy poverty measures into the bin. as this s&d shadow, i have three priorities: raise the ambition for climate, improve fairness to industry and the secure the social inclusion. the envi outcome secured climate ambition by going faster in expanding ets to maritime, covering more emissions, more ships, eventually also removing the 50% rebate for the international shipping. we improved fairness to industry by providing both sticks and carrots, by example by the stronger climate investment fund and – with our price cap, social climate fund preparation period for households entering into 2029, the energy price, emergency brake and the requirement for oil companies to pay their fair share –we safeguard the social dimension on the ets 2. the citizens are watching us tomorrow. it is our parliament’s chance to deliver to climate, to deliver to the socially fair future, and to make sure that we are really proving that the speeches are more than that. it’s reality and we are doing it together. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. my question is this: because you represent the political environment, the left, you should be sensitive to social issues, to poverty issues, to the issues of threats, to the issues related to the fact that this package fit for 55 will divide society and will be very expensive. are you not afraid that the poor will be even poorer after the introduction of this fit for 55 package? the left sees no threat from this package.
blue-card reply. – thank you colleague for this question. it is important to make sure that we are doing a transition that is social and fair, and that is in the heart of my group. and this is why i worked so hard together with the colleague to have a very balanced compromise where we are actually investing to make sure that more will go to the public, to transition to the future, to make sure that the social climate fund is helping the households to transition, to make sure that you actually can rebuild the homes and also in the traffic make it easier. who is failing? the ones who help households to prepare or those who leave them behind and say you will pay for the higher prices in the future and we will not help you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, the vote tomorrow is historic. it is historic because, clearly, europe will not look like it does today, our daily lives will not look like they do today if we vote for this week's climate package. we have in this package world firsts, for example the famous border carbon tax the border carbon adjustment mechanism. we have been talking about this for 20 years, and we are finally going to do it, and we are the first area in the world to take such a decision, to put the climate issue in the commercial rules of the game, to ensure that those who import into europe from china, turkey or elsewhere pay exactly the same price for carbon as our manufacturers. it's a question of fairness, it's a question of competitiveness, and, of course, it's a question of climate efficiency. finally we're at that appointment! we are also on a climate justice date, and that is why, mr vice-president, we did not support - and this is the only point of disagreement we have with the commission's proposal, but it is a real point of disagreement - we did not support the proposal to put in place a carbon price for individuals on heating and car fuels. we consider this measure to be politically risky. it will be exploited as it came from being by the far right. it risks fracturing our societies, and that is why we have rejected it. moreover, the compromise we found in the committee on the environment will not be reopened. it will not be reopened in plenary, as no group has expressed the will to do so. so we are going to apply a higher carbon price to industry, a higher price to road transport, to heating commercial buildings, but not to individuals: that was a red line for us, and we got an agreement on that. the last element is climate ambition. as you said, mr timmermans, we must meet the objectives of the climate law. and i see, when i look at all the amendments coming from the european right - not to mention, of course, those from the far right - all the amendments coming from the epp put together, that there is no longer any climate ambition, either for cars, for industry, for aviation or for shipping. so i say to the european right: don't be afraid, don't be afraid to vote for the climate, stop being in the hands of the lobbies, and we will all build the future together. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by mr glinne)
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. mr president, you spoke of ambition and i would like to ask you whether, now that you know the package we are voting on tomorrow, you consider that ambition to be in line with reality and whether it is covered by everything we are voting on tomorrow, the issue of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, industry, because the french commissioner, who belongs to your group, just launched a reindustrialisation strategy last year. do you think this package will help reindustrialise the internal market and maintain competitiveness vis-à-vis the other global powers, which are also much more polluting than the european union?
the answer is 'blue card'. we have no chance of successfully transitioning to a green economy if we do not do so with industry. it is not we, the politicians, who produce, innovate and invest. so we have to do it with industry, but with industry that wants to go in this direction, that wants to invest in carbon-free solutions, invent zero-carbon industry, zero-carbon mobility. and we have allies in this part of the industry. i also note, because the lobbying has been extraordinarily intense in the european parliament in recent days, that there are those in a part of the industry who do not want to move, who do not want to move and who have not understood that a large part of tomorrow's competitiveness depends precisely on their ability to have zero-carbon technologies. well, we will take our responsibility, partnering with progressive industry to move forward for the climate.
blue-card speech. – dear michael, you and the green group always take credit sometimes in being the greenest. but as a matter of fact, it was your group and the s&d group that did not want to expand the ets to road transport and buildings at all – sectors where emissions are still growing. how do you justify that to the environmental ngos and the young generation that want us to do more and expand the ets to those sectors?
madam president, commissioner, 200 years of uncontrolled industrialisation, of course that has to stop. but, as always with europe, you have to be more royalist than the king. the road map of the paris agreement is also being outbid here and now. by raising the decarbonisation thresholds on very short notice, europe is holding citizens and businesses hostage, and this at a very dangerous time of energy shortages and soaring prices. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles is a step in the right direction. and the social fund for the climate, a veritable firefighter's tool, will not be enough to cushion the shock. that is why we have been forced to table amendments rejecting all the plenary texts, which we consider to be excessive and doctrinal. the best is always the enemy of the good. and according to our great philosopher pascal, whoever wants to be an angel becomes a beast. it is urgent that the objectives, which are laudable in some respects, of course, can be achieved, those of the paris agreements, in these terms, otherwise the great economic disorder under way risks being as dangerous for europeans as the climate disorder.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! yes, mr. president, tomorrow is a historic day. we will decide whether europe will be strong, competitive and whether our children will have a future, or whether it will be weak, bullied and torn by social protests, where children will not see the chance to achieve their dreams, to live in europe, to be proud of it. please note, because we're showing in the corrections, that the fit for 55 package is out of date. it's outdated because it doesn't see the events of the last two years, it doesn't see the pandemic, it doesn't see the war, it doesn't see that we've decided that nord stream 2 will not be built. he also doesn't see that in the climate law in the impact assessment we talked about the ets price at 60 euros in 2030. right now it's about seventy, eighty euros, and it was almost 100 euros. so if we can't plan and calculate, we can't guarantee the safety of our citizens. notice that the ets, on which we build the whole climate policy, is speculative 70% of financial institutions are registered in tax havens and at the same time it is managed by the commission in a totally socialist way. we are talking about an ets that is to cover the whole of society, all aspects of european life. justice funds are not working. an example is the energy justice fund. well, frans timmermans is speaking to poland and greater poland, where ze pak has taken the decision to close the mine because there is no money for them, even though it had previously accepted it. (the president agreed to reply to the debate by raising the blue card)
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. - i'm not going to the police. one ton of organic groceries went from 700 to 3,000 dollars, and people need 7 or even 9 tons to heat their homes in one season, to keep the radiators warm, to keep the house really hot. because we know that you are blocking the energy transition, and we also know that prime minister mateusz morawiecki has given a lot of money to the just transformation fund, which we negotiated in the itre committee. so, what have you done to actually help people in this situation? what specific action have you taken as a government in this regard? i'm asking for facts because you've been in power for seven years.
response to an emergency signalled by the raising of a blue card. i am not a member of the government, but i am happy to answer. i want to tell the hon. member first of all that we have fulfilled all the commitments that were made in 2020. among other things, for renewable energy 16.1 renewable energy in the overall energy mix the target set has been met, for one. second, we're systematically introducing all the mechanisms that are supposed to serve the environment, but also take care of the human being. the war showed that among other things, the idea of closing turov overnight was a political absurdity. the fact that the mine has not been closed means that polish citizens can feel safe. at the same time, money that is tied to the ets, among other things, is regularly allocated to support those who are in energy poverty, to heat upgrades and renewable energy.
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. achieving the 2030 target will be a particular challenge for the countries of central and eastern europe. we want to make the climate and energy transition, but we need to have the support to do it in a way that meets the targets we set. but it is incomprehensible to us that on the one hand you raise the targets, you want us to move away from all fossil fuels, and on the other hand you reduce the modernization fund, which is crucial for our region. at the same time, we have a constantly growing innovation fund, which - as experience has shown - is being used by companies in the richest member states. just these companies. it is therefore necessary to increase the resources that will make the energy transition realistic across the european union by increasing the modernisation fund or ensuring that all member states participate in the innovation fund.
mr president, mr vice-president, today the european parliament is launching the objective 55 package, our roadmap for decarbonisation. we hope that the measures we are promoting, and discussing today, will transform our shipping and aviation sectors using the system of buying and selling of emission allowances. the european parliament calls for the carbon leakage, which can occur in some southern european ports such as algeciras, to be taken into account, for an effective price control mechanism to be in place and, at the same time, for the continental islands and the outermost regions to be taken into account. not only that. we also want to bring our imports and trade into line with environmental standards, thereby also genuinely protecting our industry and promoting the rest of the world on the green agenda, without forgetting the green dimension, which must be linked to the social dimension to be set up with the social climate fund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. today is a good day for a more social europe. the european parliament and the council agreed on common bases for calculating the minimum wage last night. we are now discussing the establishment of a social climate fund. with the green deal, we promised to make europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050. we have promised to work for a socially just energy transition. the social climate fund stands for all these promises that we don't want to leave anyone behind in this necessary transformation process. the link between emissions trading and the climate and social fund is essential. this is the only way to ensure that ets funds are used in the sectors from which they originate. the climate fund must benefit those who suffer most from rising prices and transformational change. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. it is a shame that already in 2019, a quarter of european households - some 50 million people - could not afford to heat their homes adequately. the war in ukraine is a contributing factor to the crisis. we must therefore help urgently; the fund is our answer.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i'd like to start by thanking everyone for their hard work and cooperation on this important piece of legislation. we have a responsibility to pass on a safe and habitable planet to our children and grandchildren. unfortunately, the climate change we've caused could destroy it. protecting the earth requires effort and action today. europe must lead the global green transition, while safeguarding jobs for our citizens, industrial potential and strategic autonomy, and a space for innovation. so our goals and the constraints that fit for 55 imposes are coupled with increased funding for innovation and the implementation of the necessary green technologies. we have a large innovation fund, an increased modernization fund specifically for low-income countries, and a new dedicated social fund to protect citizens. we also have a constant check on the economy. i believe that with these tools, the transformation, while not easy for us, will be fair and achieve the goals we set out to achieve.
in writing. the dangerous experiment that the fit for 55 package entails has huge social and economic costs. the ets, on which climate policy is built, is already a huge challenge. with the price of allowances rising, the system not only fails to stimulate the transformation but inhibits it by draining investment funds. meanwhile, the ec is proposing an extension of the ets and solutions that will deepen energy poverty and poverty in europe and weaken the competitiveness of the european economy. for example, a trade system involving construction and road transport (brt) will increase energy poverty in the union; a co2-based border adjustment mechanism (cbam) with the elimination of free emission allowances in so-called sensitive industries will lead to the bankruptcy of companies and drastic price increases; a ban on the sale of fuel cars from 2035 and restrictions on fuel cars and their owners will be a death sentence for the mobility of europeans. it would seem that the war in ukraine would bring the green order to its senses and bring about a revision. meanwhile, green policy is becoming increasingly indifferent to the union's energy security. so what is the purpose of the restrictive assumptions in the "fit for 55" package, pushed at a time when europe is facing its worst crisis in years, despite the billions of dollars it costs, and the impoverishment of entire societies?
mr. chairman, please! the climate law in article 2 clearly says: zero emissions by 2050 with absorption. not just natural absorption, but also technological absorption. that's why lulucf is so important, where we have to be fair, to share fairly this emission absorption claim, because after all, a hectare of forest in sweden is completely different from a hectare of forest in spain. we have to be flexible, we have to avoid punishment. fortunately, the legal services supported me in this endeavour and the amendment of eur 375 per tonne of excesses simply fell through. we need to support those who want to serve the climate by absorbing. it is absolutely unacceptable to include agriculture in this consumption from 2031 without research. and when we talk about absorption, let's remember that absorption can save 30 million jobs, which are associated with combustion engines. 35 million company cars... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the land use regulation aims to strengthen the sector's contribution to increasing overall climate ambition. in my view, the proposed targets should be adjusted accordingly so that each member state has a realistic chance of achieving the proposed national targets. the breakdown of the union target by country is seriously problematic compared to the previous commitment-based scenarios. the new methodology for the 2030 target height leads to significant divergences in member states' efforts. action to increase the co2 absorption capacity of forests is important, not only in poland but also in other member states. poland considers that the proposed targets do not take into account the potential of each member state in the land sector. poland notes that the calculation proposed by the european commission does not take into account any long-term trend. it is necessary to ensure as much flexibility as possible in and between accounting periods. that is why i shall be voting against this regulation.
in accordance with rule 241 (4), i would like to inform you that no request for a vote has been tabled on the correction of an error made by the imco committee in the announcement made in plenary yesterday at the opening of the sitting. the correction of the errors is therefore considered to be approved.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the legality and possible approval of the polish national economic recovery plan (2022/2703 ((rsp)). i would remind you that you are free to choose your seat in the chamber, except for the first two rows reserved for group leaders. you can then make requests for the free microphone procedure and the blue card using the voting machine as soon as you have inserted your voting card. i would also like to remind you that you will continue to have to speak from the centre stand in the chamber, except in cases where you have to speak because of a free microphone, a blue card or because of a breach of the rules of procedure.
president of the council. mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for inviting the presidency of the council to take part in this debate. our common values, such as democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, are the cornerstone of the union. and they are even more so in the exceptional circumstances we are facing as a result of russia's military aggression against ukraine. the french presidency has put the rule of law on the council's agenda on several occasions. she has spoken to you in this plenary and in the relevant committees on several occasions to discuss many rule of law issues and to inform you about the actions of the council. as regards poland, we held a hearing on 22 february in the general affairs council under the article 7 procedure. on this occasion, the fundamental importance of fully implementing the judgments and orders of the court of justice of the european union, in particular as regards the disciplinary chamber of the polish supreme court, was once again recalled. we are waiting for the third annual report on the rule of law by the commission in july, and i congratulate the commission once again on its excellent work. this report will be an important element in future discussions in the council. facilitating recovery and resilience is at the heart of the european union's response to the coronavirus crisis. it is a strong sign of unity and ambition at european level with regard to the green and digital transition. this unprecedented example of solidarity commits us to using its funds responsibly and efficiently, based on a sound and credible funding structure. i am very pleased that the commission has already raised over €5 billion of nextgenerationeu funds and that it has attracted strong interest from international investors. the facility offers a unique opportunity to strengthen the coordination of investment and reforms across the european union. our aim is therefore to see that all the plans are adopted and implemented as soon as possible. the plans should help to overcome the challenges identified in the relevant country recommendations, including rule of law issues. in addition, all member states must put in place systems to prevent, detect and correct corruption, fraud and conflicts of interest when using the funds allocated under the facility. once a plan has been approved, each member state concerned must ensure that it complies with the related eu rules, in particular the financial regulations and the regulations on a general system of conditionality for the protection of the eu budget. the council is ready to examine the commission proposal for the approval of the evaluation of the recovery and resilience plan for poland. the council will also continue to ensure, as with previously adopted plans, that all meet the regulatory requirements, including respect for the rule of law. we will continue to monitor the implementation of the facility and work closely with the european parliament at every stage to ensure its success.
president of the commission. – mr. president, last week the european commission, after one year of negotiations, gave its green light to poland’s recovery and resilience plan. now council has to decide. we just heard it. this plan will support the polish people on their way to a more sustainable, digital and resilient future. this is a path we have all agreed on. but the plan will do more, and that’s what we are debating here today. because as in all recovery and resilience plans, there are investments linked to reforms. the approval of this plan is linked in particular to clear commitments by the polish government on the independence of the judiciary. these commitments are intended to meet the three elements that i laid out to you last october in this hemicycle, and i laid them out again last week in warsaw. so please allow me to reiterate them. first. the current disciplinary chamber must be abolished and replaced by an independent and impartial court established by law. that means the new disciplinary chamber must be substantially different. that’s the term the ecj has used. substantially different from the current one to respond to the ecj ruling. second, the disciplinary regime has to be reformed. that means controversial disciplinary offenses have to be removed. for example, the request to the ecj. this is no minor offence. or the questioning of the status of another judge. this cannot be any more an offence. and third, all judges affected by the rulings of the disciplinary chamber shall have the right to have their case reviewed by the new chamber within a clear time frame and on the basis of the new regime, free from inappropriate offenses. these are the three milestones. and let me be very clear. these three commitments, translated into milestones, must be fulfilled before any payment can be made. i know that some of you are sceptical, but let me assure you that no money will be disbursed until these reforms are undertaken. the plan is public. so a first payment will only be possible when a new law is in force that ticks all the boxes under this contract. in addition, poland must demonstrate by the end of 2023 that all unlawfully dismissed judges have been reinstated. if this is not the case, there cannot be any further disbursement. when delivered, this is progress, but we’re not at the end of the road on the rule of law in poland. agreeing to poland’s recovery plan does not stop any of the other procedures concerning the rule of law in poland. we will continue the ongoing infringement proceedings, and we will not hesitate to start new ones if needed. the rulings of the court of justice concerning the disciplinary regime remain binding on poland, and the commission will continue to enforce the order of the court and apply the daily penalty payments until the polish government complies. the milestones in our plan are a safety net to the legal procedures of the court. honourable members, as you see, our strategy is to use all the instruments at our disposal to address all the rule of law issues in poland. the full implementation of the milestones will lead to solving important issues related to the disciplinary regime, as identified by the european court of justice. but the rp does not replace the judgment, it is a safety net, as i said, for poland’s compliance with it. when we started our negotiations with the polish government on the recovery plan in may one year ago, these commitments were not there. our negotiations on the nextgenerationeu triggered the necessary movement. now the polish parliament is debating a new law and unlawfully dismissed judges have a clear perspective to be reinstated. so, is everything solved? no, certainly not. but now we have movement in the right direction and leverage so that it leads to the results needed. and finally, when i visited warsaw last week, i made it very clear, when we are talking about nextgenerationeu, we are talking about common european money. taxpayers money. the european parliament and member states must be certain that this money is being spent in line with our rules and our values everywhere in our union. and we have given ourselves the instruments to make sure that the european budget is protected. both the parliament and the commission have initiated article seven procedures. the nextgenerationeu regulation allows us to push through necessary reforms as identified in the country specific recommendations. this is hard work. this is a day to day struggle. this is our duty. and i call on all of us to work together in these challenging times to uphold and protect the rule of law.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank president von der leyen very much for coming to parliament today, for her assurances and for her clear words. two years ago we started work on the european recovery and resilience facility, about one year ago we adopted it and the process could start. we launched this facility to help people affected by coronavirus, to help enterprises and to help regions cope with the economic and social consequences of the virus. we are seeing in most member states of the union already good progress. we see money starts flowing, investments can start, and reforms are also underway. in my country alone today, the government has signed contracts refurbishing, renovating, modernising schools with funds from the recovery and resilience facility. there is good progress. unfortunately, we have seen delays in poland because in poland the rule of law was under attack. the people of poland could not yet profit from the recovery and resilience facility as people in other eu member states have done. and this is a fact. but the situation now is that work starts between the european commission and the government of poland to reach a common understanding. the rule of law is important. we as a parliament, my group, we are all committed to this and the message is clear: money can only flow when money is safe, eu funds can only be paid when eu funds are safe. and this is why i say very clearly before this parliament: our group will not tolerate the release of a single euro from the recovery and resilience facility until the polish authorities comply with the rulings of the european court of justice. and we expect the european commission to not disperse funds until the polish authorities adopt the necessary legislation and prove that the course on which they embark is irreversible. legislation needs to be adopted, legislation needs to be implemented. and this is important to all of us, because money from the rrf is money from the people of europe for the people of poland. and we have a duty to protect this money to make sure it is well spent. we want to help the people of europe, but we hope the government of poland is not an obstacle in our desire to help the people of poland, as we are also helping people of europe in all other member states.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, thank you, mrs von der leyen, for coming here today, in person, to show the european commission's commitment to the defence of the rule of law, which it knows is a top priority for this parliament. this is a difficult debate, obviously. it is again another consequence of the authoritarian drift in poland and the degradation of its rule of law. on the one hand, we welcome the fact that the polish government has finally admitted that it has to dismantle its disciplinary chamber, that it has to put an end to its arbitrariness and its sanctioning regime, that it has punished judges according to its own judgments and that these judges must be rehabilitated. but on the other hand, we have yet to see morawiecki fulfilling these points. and so i repeat the message of the socialist and democratic group and of this parliament: not one euro from the recovery fund until all the conditions laid down by the court of justice of the european union are met. before we can approve the polish recovery plan we need to see real changes, not just make-up measures. let me be clear: rehabilitating these judges is not just reviewing their cases, it's returning them to their positions and fields of expertise. the conditions set by the commission do not, moreover, answer all our concerns. the changes must be profound and must be sustained. the commission should rigorously verify that there are no reversals or backlogs before the recovery funds are paid. my group will be extremely vigilant on this, including the rule of law conditionality mechanism. the commission cannot accept the reduction of our democratic standards in poland or any other member state. in this war with grave economic and social consequences we admire the efforts and solidarity of the polish citizens in welcoming refugees. this solidarity cannot be used as a bargaining chip to give the polish government any special treatment in respect of the rule of law, because polish citizenship deserves no less. and the union, neither.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! the organization of absurd debates, and there have been many, seems to be the spécialité de la maison of this parliament. this level of absurdity exceeds even the most basic standards of rationality. the current debate is not only absurd, but i would say it is wicked. i'm addressing the non-polish mps who support this debate. you know nothing about poland. you don't know anything about this institution. and i hear - a colleague said something about the disciplinary chamber and expressed such enthusiasm that the disciplinary chamber is being dissolved. you don't know what the disciplinary chamber is doing. i got zero. it's not even. i just did. they say that poland - i've heard that term - poland has an authoritarian government. poland has an authoritarian government?! there is a thousand times more freedom in poland than in a country like spain, which is ruled by an extremely repressive and unpleasant government. what are you talking about?! zero, just zero knowledge! complete ignorance, just being driven by such ideological hatred and bigotry. which, of course, as an observer of public life, i can understand somewhat, but i regret it nonetheless. recently, a member of the european parliament used the phrase that poland should be financially starved. i understand that the european parliament has also adopted this strategy of financial starvation of poland. the word 'starvation' has a very unpleasant ring to it because it refers to a particularly nasty political tradition and, as i said, it sounds terrible to the polish ear, but the truth is that this parliament has indeed adopted such a strategy. and that is, i must say, very sad. but i'm struck by the lying tongue that falls here. when you talk about democracy, it's not really about democracy. you're talking about the tyranny of one group. when you talk about values, you really mean intimidation and blackmail. when you talk about the rule of law, it's about getting an extra stick on your opponents. i'm disgusted with it. when poland joined the european union in 2004, even the most ardent opponents of the union, both at home and abroad, could not have imagined such a degeneration. ladies and gentlemen, you sow the wind and sooner or later you will reap the whirlwind.
mr president, madam minister, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the long awaited decision to approve the recovery plan for poland. this confirms that all the previous accusations were nothing but political hysteria created against the right-wing conservative government of poland. once again, it is unacceptable that the leftists in this parliament are questioning the correctness of this decision and are continuing their ideological attacks. it is high time that the european left realised that petty ideological debates have no place at this time, when we are facing a terrible war in our immediate neighbourhood. the war in ukraine has shaken us deeply and created an entirely new political and security situation. in addition, europe is facing unprecedented economic, food, energy and refugee crises. we must therefore deal with these matters in great unity and with unwavering strength. it is quite irresponsible - and i must say suicidal - to pit member states against each other in the present situation. what we need is mutual trust and respect, not mindless attacks on leaders and governments who defend their sovereignty, convictions and national interests. finally, a few words in polish to show my respect for poland. poland is a peaceful and democratically healthy country. it should be able to receive all the eu funds it is entitled to.
mr. president, madam president, i have to go. you decide who's lying, who's smug, who's arrogant. you have the opportunity to compare. i am also here as a representative of society, of that part of society that is very, very much waiting for those billions that should serve the polish economy, the polish local government, polish entrepreneurs. the polish government wasted this year because prime minister morawiecki announced exactly the three points that the commissioner was talking about. what do the prime minister's words mean? we as a polish society have lost 13% of the advance, over 5 billion and time. that is why we need the document presented by the commissioner in warsaw, 300 pages of an implementation decision. i'm sending you away because you may not have read it. the following pages are inserted in the annex to this regulation: these are the four pages devoted to the very detailed procedure concerning disciplinary proceedings, the execution of judgments of the court of justice, the entire system that is associated with the creation of law, as well as changes to the rules of procedure of the sejm, the senate, the meeting of the council of ministers. and believe me, you can trust me. the polish public is very much looking forward to the calendar, also signed by the polish government in this document, with key dates end of june (in a few weeks) to be fulfilled, because it further guarantees the possibility of ending this crisis that serves no one. and whoever attacks the european commission today is weakening the common europe, and is not helping the polish government to fulfil its obligations in this case. it's law and justice... (the president cut the speaker off)
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i'd like to ask you, is it true that you're the author of the words that poles should be starved financially? all you have to do is shake your head. yes or no. did you say those words? do you have any idea what they sound like in poland, where people were starved to death by the germans? do you have any idea how many poles and jews felt starved by the germans during the war? and are you going to apologize? i rarely speak polish, but now i'm proud to ask you this rhetorical question.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. thank you very much for agreeing to answer my question. i have a question for you: don't you think that all these attacks on poland in this situation, what the poles are doing, how they are helping refugees from ukraine, are very well seen in moscow. don't you think that these attacks on poland are causing putin to open the champagne and rejoice that poland is economically and economically weakened by not receiving money, the money due from the national reconstruction plan? do you realize that poland, as an actor on this eastern flank, also on behalf of nato, is playing a very important economic role in the defence of the european union today? and your attacks on poland are simply serving putin. do you realize that?
mr. chairman, please! the fact that the european parliament is having such a heated debate on poland is a testament to how important our country is to you, ladies and gentlemen. the fact that we asked to meet with the president after she had been in warsaw and signed the national reconstruction plan together with prime minister morawiecki, is proof that the respect of the law throughout the european union is extremely important to us, colleagues, the commission, the council. citizens, local governments, ngos, businesses, health services and others are in dire need of these community funds. yes, that's true, but i would like to remind you of this little thing, we fought against the authoritarian government that occupied us for decades in poland, we fought for membership in this community that we are in, in the european union, because it guarantees us the rule of law, democracy, it guarantees us freedom. the european union guarantees us the rule of law, a free media, guarantees us the separation of powers, guarantees us free courts. our polish democratic institutions are still young and not yet sufficiently resistant to the attacks of those who destroy them. the more important is our community of values, a community of values, a community of rule of law. and you are its guardian, madam president, that is what we expect from you and that is what we demand of you. i'm not going to lie. forgive my miserable germans, but we know where it leads, if we are weak and tolerant towards authoritarian governments, against governments that break our common agreements and rules. the eu has been too long with fidesz and viktor orbán, and we all see how much we are weak today. they know the history, and they know where the dictatorship is, and they can't keep the law. the eu is also a member of the association council. the ukrainian fights for the rule of law, for a ... the president entzieht der rednerin das wort. - (de) i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the
mr. chairman, please! he was appointed judge of the constitutional tribunal of the russian federation on 1 july 2014 by the constitutional tribunal of the russian federation. bart staszewski, an lgbtiq activist sued by the administration. justyna wydrzyńska, a women's rights activist, could be sentenced by a polish court in a few weeks. elizabeth of the netherlands, a democracy activist, accused of, among other things, insulting religious sentiments. these are stories about the rule of law and human rights. the people who are fighting for these values in poland deserve support and solidarity. and they were counting on the european union. meanwhile, the european commission has been monitoring, admonishing and recommending, and now it has capitulated. she lost to kaczynski, orban and other populists. there are members in this chamber who speak of a vote of no confidence in the commission. and perhaps they are right, because the challenges of this term have long outgrown the commission. she didn't stand up for our values, she can't fight climate disaster. it's not about women and lgbtq equality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green light for poland's national recovery plan, worth almost 36 billion euros, is revealing the hypocrisy of the european institutions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the council decision of 28 june 2016 on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of armenia on the participation of the republic of armenia in the union programme 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) '. the problems raised in european parliament resolutions and in the judgments of the court of justice have not been definitively resolved, particularly as regards the disciplinary regime for judges and the reinstatement of judges who have been dismissed for political reasons. the activation of the conditionality mechanism to protect the eu budget from violations of the rule of law has also been called for on several occasions. while we acknowledge the great contribution made by the host country to the ukrainian refugees, we must not forget the many debates on attacks on press freedom and civil rights. the newspapers reported that five commissioners disagreed with the plan and were critical of the milestones that should solve the problems of the independence of the polish judiciary. the commission is the guardian of the treaties and is responsible for the application of european law. the transfer of funds, without a concrete solution to the questions of the restoration of the rule of law, risks not only diminishing the role of the commission but also undermining the credibility of the european institutions and the confidence of the citizens in them.
mr president, we cannot, and will not, allow our common values to be put at risk; the commission will act. these were your words, madam president, in this house in october last year during the debate on poland. those words were accompanied by clear demands, and you mentioned them today as well: the dismantling of the disciplinary chamber, ending the disciplinary regime for polish judges and the reinstatement of dismissed judges. now, more than six months have passed since our debate in october. plenty of time for the polish government to show genuine commitment and implement the ecj rulings; plenty of time to meet minimum standards as all member states of the eu must. however, sadly, six months later, none of this has happened. despite this, the polish rrf plan has now officially been approved and this has simply been the wrong sequence. as much as there is something to say for jointly agreed milestones with strict deadlines, these conditions should have been fulfilled before the endorsement of the plan for poland, which would have also given the commission more time to evaluate the actual implementation of these commitments in practice. fundamental values and the rule of law, much like ecj rulings, cannot be the subject of negotiations. and we therefore expect a clear commitment today from the commission that you will indeed act, that not a single euro will be transferred to the polish government until there is a genuine, complete and irreversible implementation of the milestones, execution of the ecj rulings and full respect for the primacy of eu law. nothing less will do.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, i am sure you will not be surprised to hear that we are very skeptical about this positive assessment of the polish government's plan, because we are all aware of the shortcomings of the plan - the thirteen months that it took to get approval are proof of this - and because we have passed countless resolutions in this parliament denouncing the systematic violation of the rule of law by the morawiecki government. you, the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, are responsible for the application of european union law under the control of the court of justice of the european union. and we, this parliament, are responsible for monitoring the commission. the recovery and resilience mechanism regulation is very clear: the plan has to meet eleven requirements to be positively assessed and this includes the half-year recommendations regarding the independence, efficiency and quality of the judicial system. and this has translated into those three conditions, which i'm not going to mention because they've been said many times. the commission's duty is to rigorously verify the implementation of all the conditions contained in this plan, some of which must be met by the end of the month. so, given that there are 23 days left, i think the council could also wait before taking its final decision. in any case, it must be very clear that without these requirements being met, not a single euro can be transferred. i would like to conclude with a final message: the values of the european union are the cornerstone of the union and as such we must maintain an unwavering position. in its defence, we have the rule of law conditionality regulation, which we cannot forget.
madam president, it is right you came here today because this chamber is the place where the commission is held to account, here and nowhere else. colleagues, 14, no less than 14 resolutions on the rule of law in poland have been adopted by this house. they were all ignored by the european commission. so what magical effects do we expect from number 15? the commission ignores parliament, the rulings of the highest european courts, the letters of dissent to five commissioners ignored. its own article 7 procedure against poland ignored, the calls from polish civil society, warnings by judicial authorities in other member states, ignored. instead, president von der leyen, you travelled to warsaw last week for a shiny ceremony with the prime minister, who, as soon has you had left, hastened to say the judiciary component is fine. as we heard here today by mr legutko and his colleagues. so the guardian of the treaties is no longer upholding the rule of law. it’s holding up a facade. the milestones are a smokescreen and fall short of the standards called for by the european court of justice. three things. implementation. full implementation and irreversible implementation of all ecj rulings. reinstatement of the unlawfully dismissed judges. recognition of the primacy of eu law. those are the real criteria and nothing less. colleagues, it is our duty as the european parliament to hold the commission to account. a critical parliament is not the problem. a silent parliament is politics, colleagues, is not for the faint hearted. are we a watchdog or are we a lapdog ? in 2019, this house, madam president, gave you its vote of confidence, and so did i. but a vote of confidence is meaningless if it’s irreversible, because it leaves us without leverage. for me, it is clear if you make any payment to poland without all the criteria having been fully met, you lose my confidence. it's democracy. (the speaker refused a request for a blue-card speech by beata kempa)
madam president, i think it has to be said here very clearly that what the commission did last week was a big political and strategic mistake, and i think there is no dancing around it because even large parts of the commission seem to agree with that. and now it is actually on the council to show some spine and not to adopt the rrp for poland until the pre-given conditions are going to be met. and may i remind this house that actually these conditions are not specific political requirements. they should actually not be conditions at all because they should just be self-evident facts that everybody in the european union can take for granted – to comply with rulings of the european court of justice. now, the commission does not seem to think that it is bound by the treaties but i have to break it to you, madam president, you are. and unless you find back that clarity this parliament is going to be ready to do what it takes to make sure that article 2 of the treaties is going to be safeguarded.
madam president, madam president of the commission, your presence here is a sign of commitment and i have no doubt that you will do everything to ensure that the rule of law is respected in the european union. but on this side, in a matter like this, mr macron should be. there are many people, and i have not heard anyone mention it, who forget that in order for suspensions to exist, it is the council that approves those suspensions. the one who's gonna approve the recovery and resilience plan is the council. the question is: why did they turn only to the commission? i would like to know what the council's position is. the council will approve without conditions? if the commission makes a proposal for suspension of payments, will the council approve it? how are the majors out there? then i'd like to see the parliamentary leaders here speak about the position of their respective leaderships. i am talking about the socialists and democrats and i am also talking about renew. because there is no doubt that the rule of law and european values are our common ground and we must respect them, we must cherish them. it is absolutely unacceptable that a member state, in order to be part of the european union, has to comply with european values and, once there, does not respect them. we therefore support and agree that those who commit crimes, those who do not comply with and respect european values, cannot of course be funded by the european union budget or by the recovery and resilience plan.
madam president! we all know that poland needs the money from the kpo. i don't think anyone's arguing that. still, not everything is for sale. the rule of law is one of those values. i hope that the amendments to the law on the supreme court passed by the senate last week, which were also supported by the senators of the ruling party, will have a positive impact on the independence of the polish judiciary. but we will soon find out what the polish government's real intentions are. if the senate amendments are rejected by the written majority in the sejm, then we will be sure that the commission and you personally have been cruelly harassed. i strongly believe that the money from the kpo will flow to poland only when the milestones are met. otherwise the commission will allow a populist drive for the union to spread in my country, fuelled by the constant undermining of freedom and the rule of law. so we shall be watching to see how the commission proceeds. i am sure that we in this parliament can play the vabank too.
madam president! poland has been a frontline country for three months. russian missiles are falling a dozen kilometers from our eastern border. poles have opened their homes and hearts to millions of refugees. the commission sees this and has taken a decision that has been widely discussed in poland has approved the national reconstruction plan. conscious that the conditions imposed - disciplinary chamber or non-repression of judges - are not sufficient conditions for the repair of the polish rule of law, because the damage goes much deeper. i see it as a gesture of solidarity with the polish people. i know how much these funds are needed in a country that now has a historically low investment rate caused by the uncertainty of the economy and the tax chaos called "polish system". it is obvious that enforcement of these conditions is necessary, but it is not sufficient. we need two more. at least a part, a minimum of one-third of these funds must go to local governments. and it's not loans, because the local governments are in debt, they're counting losses from the last pseudo-reforms, but grants. and second, investment money cannot be turned into political money, voting money. and we have the worst experience in this regard. so you have to watch your hands. and only when these conditions are met will this national plan be beneficial for polish society and the polish economy.
madam president! the pis is like a bomb squad that sets bombs, then disarms them and expects praise. like an arsonist who burns down his own house, then extinguishes it, and now expects compensation. solidarna polska like a bomber who gave up the bombing in exchange for money. ziobro is like a thief caught red-handed, but innocent because he stole less than he intended. acheson is like nero burning his own country. and this in times of record inflation, in times when the ubiquitous price gouging drains polish wallets, when the price of organic groceries went from 700 to 3,000 zlotys, and gasoline exceeded the record of 8 zlotys. if it wasn't for your persistence, that money would have been in poland by now. i'm glad the ipo was accepted, but we lost five billion euros in advance and, above all, we lost precious time. it's your fault, not the opposition, that the kpo was not accepted earlier. i congratulate the chairman on the agreement, but i ask for control. they cannot be trusted and i ask that these funds be strictly monitored so that not a single euro is wasted.
madam president! mrs. sophia in 't veld has not accepted my invitation to ask for a blue card. i just want to say, madam member, that with a majority that does not want to hear arguments, you can actually accept everything and pass a hundred more resolutions. you can declare that snow is green, that the earth is square. the member who just said that we are the new mini-russia, i want to remind you, however, to do the history lessons, we were occupied by russia for almost 50 years and we were murdered by the polish elites and we ask you to be careful here with such words. and i want to say that you are unfortunately succumbing to the polish opposition, which as we saw today in mr kohout's words, is very frustrated, helpless, unable to win the next elections, losing the presidential, parliamentary, european elections, and now begs you not to give the poles money. we know that even if we meet a million milestones, it's because we are a conservative government, you will punish poles for voting for a government of values, for wanting such a poland, and you do not want to respect the democratic choice and give these measures. one last sentence, madam president, to the polish opposition. i think the nation will hold you accountable in the next election for the way you've been shaming our country.
in writing. today's debate is about the approval of the polish national reconstruction plan, and what should be called by its name is: further, vigorous efforts to make the implementation of this plan as difficult as possible, or preferably impossible. for increasingly absurd reasons, the right to initiate the disbursement of these funds to my country is being questioned. the absurdity of this debate and the accusations themselves have reached such heights that the european commission itself is being attacked for its dialogue with the polish side and even calls for the removal of president von der leyen from office. in a situation where there is a bloody war just on the eu border, where people are dying, mothers and children are being murdered, imaginary difficulties and problems are being created in order not to transfer funds to poland that should have been there long ago. poland is a country that has opened its doors and hearts wide to all those who are fleeing from ukraine to escape death and russian terror. unfortunately, for purely ideological reasons, everything is done to not support poland. the louder someone here declares solidarity with ukrainians, the more they try not to help the country where most ukrainians have found help and refuge. you have a mouth full of democracy and you're only guided by your own delusional ideology.
in writing. once again we are witnessing a situation where people without reliable knowledge are trying to take a voice, moreover a voice that unequivocally condemns and judges the polish rule of law. without adequate information, the right to determine the rule of law in the member states, or any operational powers granted by the treaties in this respect, you are in a position to judge the state of the polish judiciary. i do not understand the dislike towards the polish ruling team, elected in democratic elections in the rule of law. how can you be accused of not respecting community values when you apply them selectively? how can you want to starve poland financially when it is the first line of aid for ukraine and the front-line of the community? where does your policy of unequal treatment of member states go if not to internal disputes and divisions? stop treating poland as a proverbial spoonful of nectar in a european honeycomb and start acting as one community on the originally adopted principles of equal treatment and general cooperation. the current situation forces us to take decisive action to promote integration between the member states without prejudice, which you represent at this moment.
mr president, although we are protected by nato and us nuclear umbrella, security is not granted forever. there is always a need to discuss, enhance and strengthen security. time is good for the report on security. and conclusion of this report is in the time of war inappropriate and somewhat wrong. in time of war it’s a time for unity, a united response to aggression. but what we have instead, we have hesitation in some capitals, like berlin and paris, ideas like strategic compass, european autonomy, or qmv. in time of war, there is no time for experiment, no time for emancipation from transatlantic cooperation, and no time for federal experiments with qmv. just without the qmv, we adopted already six packages of sanctions, but we cannot accept the delivery of weapon to ukraine.
mr. speaker, the house of lords! last year, i asked from this very spot what kind of disaster must happen for us to take european defence seriously. putin's unprovoked aggression against ukraine has exceeded even my expectations. the north atlantic alliance, the united states, stood up to the challenge. the european union has done more than i personally expected and i would like to thank the commission very warmly for that, through the commissioner. but we need more. we need a defence union, we need a rapid reaction force, we need to strengthen conventional defence, cyber defence, partly joint procurement, more weapons for ukraine. ukraine has already won the status of candidate. we need to punish war crimes in ukraine. personally, i would consider a majority vote on some issues, for example, if it comes to personal sanctions, or sanctions at all, because i don't think one country should be able to block, for example, the sanctions that are proposed for the warmonger cyril. so, natalie, i support david, i congratulate him on the report, but i expect you to convince your governments to go along with it. and the next polish government will support the defence union.
mr president, the russian invasion of ukraine caused a reset and tectonic shift in many political attitudes and policy responses. one of the main lessons is that the common foreign, security and defence policies of the union can no longer be the weakest link in our integration. we all agree to condemn russian aggression in the strongest possible terms. by defending itself, ukraine defends us too, and we can no longer avoid responsibility for our security and defence. taking more significant responsibility also means larger investments from our side. however, being strategically autonomous means that our focus cannot only be on security and defence spending: foreign policy can’t lag behind too. enlargement policy, for example, one of the most successful policies, must also be at the centre of our action. the credible perspective of enlargement and the merit-based regatta approach must be our political response already at the next council meeting in two weeks.
mr. president, the russian invasion of ukraine has opened a new geopolitical scenario. we are in a more complex security environment, where multipolarity could give way to increasing bipolarity in a context of rivalry and antagonism. in this context, the european union must be an effective international actor, capable of defending its interests and values. we need a strong and determined foreign and security policy, and also a defence policy. this is the key message of the recommendation we are debating today. i congratulate the rapporteurs. firstly, i think it is necessary to achieve the objectives set out in the strategic compass and to ensure close coordination between the european union and nato. our strategic compass and the strategic concept that nato will adopt at the next summit in madrid must be well aligned. i would also like to emphasize the following points in the resolution. the high representative must launch a diplomatic offensive against all the states which abstained or voted against the un resolutions on the aggression against ukraine. we must do pedagogy, get a unanimous condemnation response from the international community. we must also get more international support for our sanctions against russia. i found it very worrying that this weekend the chairman of the african union was calling from moscow for the lifting of sanctions against russia. finally, we insist on the establishment of a council of defence ministers of the union which meets on an institutionalised and regular basis. in the present situation, a permanent political dialogue is more necessary than ever to coordinate our foreign and defence policy with the united states. if this dialogue had existed, many of the disparities between intelligence analyses and assessments of these analyses in the face of the russian invasion of ukraine could have been avoided.
mr. chairman, please! three short remarks. first, the democratic west must continue its current assistance to ukraine, which is the victim of russian aggression, and impose further sanctions on the aggressor. today's support from our societies may be eroding as a result of both war fatigue and russian manipulation of public opinion. second, there will be an end to this tragedy. russia or its perpetrator cannot get any reward. the ukrainian authorities have repeatedly expressed their opposition to the deployment of the forces of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. thirdly, once again after the war in the balkans, it is clear that without the us europe cannot effectively defend itself and its immediate surroundings. this requires a rethinking of strategic autonomy projects. under the present circumstances, there is no substitute for a transatlantic alliance.
mr president, with this plenary week and this vote, the european parliament, on behalf of the people of europe, will send a clear signal for the security of the europeans, of this generation and for generations to come. security means that we have to invest more in defence. security means that we have to use structures and to strengthen these structures like the european defence fund, like the strategic compass, in order to contribute to our strategic autonomy. security means that we have to unify the free world, the so-called political west. we have to align with our partners, our largest partner, the united states, and all the partners around the globe. because contributing to the free world means to contribute to freedom of people. security does not mean to militarise society. security means to have proper armed forces in order to make proper dwelling possible, proper studying, learning, education, work and everything else. it’s about our societies which we like so much and we defend. unifying the political west also means to contribute to recognition of kosovo, for example, unifying the political base means to confront also domestically hungary in our european union. within europe, also to confront serbia with its obstacles, sending to the process of unifying the political west. unifying the political west and contributing to security also means to solve our issues within our societies. we have heard today one of our colleagues mentioning it would be two sides of the same medal when it comes to russia and ukraine. no, that’s not true. there is one aggressor and there’s one victim. and we are on the side of the victim, on the side of freedom of human dignity, democracy and rule of law. this is what we have to do. we welcome denmark in the common security and defence policy this very week after this great referendum there, and we will continue contributing to unifying the free world.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the security environment in europe fundamentally changed when russia started the illegal and brutal attack against ukraine. we stand with ukraine. but facing situations like this, we need to make progress on the eu foreign security and defence policy as well. we need cohesion and effectiveness of eu external actions and we need european union and solidarity also among the member states. the solidarity and mutual assistance clauses in the treaties, and at the very heart of the union’s security policy, must not be empty letters. also, the strategic compass adopted earlier this year provides a very good basis for developing the eu security and defence policy. the consequences have been very profound. it has led finland and sweden to seek nato membership, and in may the two countries submitted applications. i hope you can support the amendment calling for a swift adoption of these memberships in the eu countries that are nato members, as we did already in the vote today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the russian invasion of ukraine has certainly strengthened western cohesion, but it has also highlighted the delays in our union's foreign, defence and security policy. you have to have the courage to do more. the world will change after this war. china will be the great director of a political operation to invade half the world with its products and will have at its side, if things continue as they are, the russian federation too. attention to what is happening, of course, on our eastern border, but also to what is happening in africa, to what is happening in south america. russia and china will become stronger and stronger. that is why we need to respond with policy. but foreign policy also needs a defence tool. the strategic compass, a regular council of defence ministers of the union, greater cooperation on intelligence are certainly a step in the right direction, but more courage is needed. we must speed up the building of a common army, common armed forces, which will certainly have to cooperate with nato and at the same time strengthen europe's presence within the atlantic alliance. the european defence fund must also be financed by a new issue of common debt securities, eurobonds. we need a european commissioner for defence, to coordinate policies and optimise investment also in military research and health. in short, the european union is at a crossroads: only with more solidarity in all our policies will we be able to counter threats to the security of our citizens, including the fight against terrorism and cybersecurity.
madam president, russia’s war against ukraine has been going on for more than eight years now. the full-scale military offensive that putin launched on 24 february has lasted more than 100 days. the lessons identified from the ongoing war must make the european union move faster and start delivering in the security and defence field. the report that we are discussing tonight brings up many vital issues. they must be dealt with if we want the eu to become more serious. defence must get the attention it deserves. defence ministers should be meeting at council level on a regular basis. the eu must cooperate more closely with nato and find the necessary resources for the flagship projects such as military mobility. i would also like to emphasise the need for the eu to foster closer cooperation between the private sector, academia and governments in the field of defence technologies. what we have witnessed from the war in ukraine is that high-end military technologies can make a huge difference in fighting the enemy and saving our own soldiers’ lives. we need more solutions and they can only be implemented in close cooperation with the private – and research and technology – sector from europe.
madam president, for over a hundred days, we have witnessed the criminal russian aggression in ukraine. for over a hundred days, the brave ukrainians have been fighting back. they defend their country, they defend freedom and all of europe. today, the future of europe is being decided: will brutality, unfreedom and lawlessness prevail, or will the rule of law, freedom and courage prevail? i'm sure peace is attainable. i'm sure that courage and freedom and justice will prevail. therefore, our assistance to ukraine must not cease until it has control of all its territory. our help must not be in vain, because the ukrainians are fighting for freedom and democracy, and no one deserves a european perspective more than they do. that is why i am convinced that we have an obligation to offer them a full seat in the family of european nations. full membership of the european union. we also need to talk about rebuilding this country, because freedom and democracy are directly linked to prosperity. it is therefore important that we also help economically in the reconstruction of ukraine. and i am glad that this resolution specifically mentions the international tribunal, because this genocide by terrorist russia must not only be investigated but also punished. and in closing, let me thank all of you who help people in need.
madam president! the european union has strongly reaffirmed its support for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of ukraine within its internationally recognised borders. in the versailles declaration, we recognised ukraine's aspirations and its application for membership of the european union and its candidate status as a clear political sign of solidarity with the ukrainian people. but we cannot stop at declarations, because democracy and freedom depend, among other things, on prosperity and economic stability. i support the proposal to set up a joint procurement task force to enhance defence capabilities. i hope, however, that this weapon will never be used. i am convinced that the only way to create a better future for europe and the world is through peace. ukraine needs material, military, financial and humanitarian assistance and contributions to post-war reconstruction that can ensure the establishment of a legal instrument allowing the confiscation of frozen russian assets and funds. a free and strong ukraine means a secure european union. there are 40 major conflicts and wars in the world today. europe can help stabilise the situation in war-torn areas through military missions. together, we have the ability and the capacity to make the world a more just place, a place where the law is respected and where human rights are respected.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. when i started working on the report, there was a lot of evidence that its assumptions would be limited by those who want to allow putin to keep his face and win another deal with the russian energy giants. the invasion in february caused some of the mps to see the light. this is reflected in the report on security in the eastern partnership region negotiated by our political groups. i wanted to highlight some of the key findings of the report. first, we demand increased efforts to arm ukraine. our eastern neighbours are fighting not only for their freedom but also for a peaceful future for europe. russia needs to be defeated, not convinced by phone calls. secondly, security cooperation should be strengthened, including with the other eastern partnership countries. let me remind you that russia continues to occupy the territories of georgia and moldova. at the operational level, this means, inter alia, an increased presence of military and civilian personnel of the union mission. third, we stress the importance of digital issues and cooperation in countering russian hybrid activities. fourthly, the development of the three seas initiative is an important element in stabilising the security of the region through infrastructure investments. the logistical support and arms supplies to ukraine, provided by poland and other countries, speak for themselves. fifthly, as regards infrastructure, security is also an economic issue, hence the call for ukraine to be integrated into the common market as soon as possible and for ukraine and the other countries to be granted candidate status. sixth, we underline the crucial importance of nato and encourage the intensification of the alliance's cooperation with the eastern partnership countries. the kremlin's propaganda that the supposed threat of the pact is the cause of russia's wars must be rejected. the invasion of georgia was a cover for the refusal to grant georgia a membership roadmap. russian aggression should be seen as a smokescreen for the incompetence and corruption of russian elites and a declared source of legitimacy for their governments. in this context, i would like to point out that simply getting rid of putin will not bring lasting peace to europe. given the social mood and the character of the russians, he would be immediately replaced by someone perhaps worse, less detached from reality and more competent. finally, i would like to stress that the report's guidelines for containing russian influence in the eastern partnership are a step in the right direction. this proposed policy should continue for years after the russians have been driven out of the occupied territories of ukraine, georgia and moldova. because we cannot allow russia to rebuild its war machine and fund us with another re-enactment of history.
madam president, vice-president, the eastern partnership programme was established to foster democracy, open-market economy and development with a presumption that every nation has a right to independently decide on its own future. unfortunately, these ideas sound like an abomination to the putins of this world, who only understand the language of power and spheres of influence. georgia, moldova and most evidently ukraine, have to suffer the consequences of having a thug for a neighbour, and the eu itself should feel threatened by his actions. the common security and defence policy has to gradually transform into an instrument which improves overall regional safety. in order to achieve that, we need to deepen eu-nato cooperation, support the european defence fund initiative, back pesco projects and guarantee sufficient funding to the european peace facility. we must not continue outsourcing our security to others.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. thank you, madam chairman. thank you for this substantive discussion, which contrasted with previous discussions today, with very ideological attacks on poland. today, i thank you for your amendments, for your expert support. the eastern partnership lacks a security and military dimension, and eu monitoring missions are an important complement to this lack. we do not have a common defence policy, so monitoring missions are one form of assistance and dialogue on security with our partners. we cannot turn the mandate into a combat mission, so within the mandate we use all the union's capabilities and potential to support our partners. that's why it's a little christmas tree, like a document. so we looked at all the european policies, all the capacities, all the potentials of european support for these countries. of course, the most important thing today is the gun. and that's what we called for in the report. the most important proposal is the enlargement of the union. it's membership in the union. there was a certain original sin in partnership. it was tearing these countries away from russia, bringing them closer to the union, but not guaranteeing membership. hence, it led to a certain state of suspension and frustration. this limbo state needs to be repaired and granted membership, at least for today. we have to grant them the status of candidacy. this status is a political gesture. it doesn't cost us anything. it must be granted to this country as soon as possible.
president. - mr president, i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment. it is good, mr michel, that we have finally reached an agreement on the sixth package of sanctions. but let us be honest, for us in parliament it came a little late. and at the sale, i think it was mr. weber who said, i actually gave in to mr orbán's blackmail. twice yielded in fact! i know our unity is important, but isn't it time we took power away from these autocrats and stopped this unanimity? i think it is high time, and i hope that we will continue to do so here in parliament on thursday. and then the good news, and then i'll turn more to ursula von der leyen. the good news is that european defence. finally, leaders have said: we are going for a real european defence. parliament has said many times: let's stop this fragmentation, let's stop this waste of resources. we spend as much on defense as china, four times as much as russia, and yet we're basically a military dwarf. so let us now make europe a military industrial bloc, and as far as i am concerned, mrs von der leyen, a genuine european army. you have my support. go ahead of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the council has not yet adopted a decision on the situation in the former yugoslavia, but it is still in the process of adopting a decision on the situation in the former yugoslavia. it is a mistake, in my view, to use the united states or the european union to maintain this war with more and more weapons. it is not, in my view - and i must say this once again - in the best interests of the whole matter for ukrainian president zelensky to enter the debate with rhetoric that is not appropriate to the situation, to make threats, to say that the european union should have no future without ukraine. this is the wrong way. the hungarian parliament president kövér is quite right when he says that normally the person who asks for help does so politely and prudently and not in such rhetoric. so please exercise all due caution, do not jeopardize the security of supply in europe, stop the deaths in ukraine and get everything on track towards peace.
mr. president, madam president, i have to go. before i go on to the conclusions of the european council, i must refer in a few sentences to the words which have been used here in reference to my country, poland. and i will answer one of you as a polish citizen. poland is today the country that has taken in nearly 3 million refugees from ukraine. poland is the country where our families host our friends from ukraine, ukrainian families, in their homes. we're providing humanitarian aid and we're providing military aid. we never had any doubt that ukraine should be supported, because they are fighting for the freedom of all of us, for the sovereignty of all of us. poland has never tried to introduce, including in this house, solutions that de facto supported putin. if you are addressing these remarks to poland today, mr president, about the fact that funds for my country should be withheld, then you should call president macron or chancellor scholz, because they are calling putin non-stop, and these calls have led to attacks on food stores in ukraine, among other things. if there is an attempt here in parliament to undermine the role of countries like poland, which today defend the sovereignty, solidarity and unity of europe, then even the most splendid declarations, resolutions and plans will not be effective. we all need european solidarity today. the most important thing, and i am glad that the european council has spoken about this, is food security, this is energy security. today, we are facing these challenges, which, alongside the war in ukraine and the defeat of putin, are the most important for europeans.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in hungary, we are committed to helping the tens of thousands of ukrainian refugees who arrive every day, and we are providing the largest humanitarian support to ukraine in our history, and we will do this for as long as it takes, and we will continue to do so for as long as it takes. we condemn the russian aggression and demand an investigation into war crimes. we are willing to make sacrifices for peace, which is why hungary has supported all previous sanctions packages and has complied with all agreements. the embargo on oil coming through the pipeline was fatal for hungary because of its own characteristics, so it dared to openly take its position, but it sought a common solution for the sake of unity. so the compromise was good. the pipeline was left to transport the oil. we must understand that we cannot support sanctions that will cause us more damage than the russian aggressor. we hungarians want to win peace, so we do not support the sanctioning of church leaders.
mr president, president michel, president von der leyen, well yesterday we had a discussion on the polish recovery plan. it was not a very pleasant discussion for you, especially. this time i had the pleasure to express my appreciation of the results of the summit, both for you and for you. this was important, but obviously not the last time we are discussing ukraine. it’s going to be an evergreen for the next weeks, months or maybe even more. one thing that i would like to concentrate in my one minute is the long—term reconstruction strategy of ukraine. and i would like to say we need four things, four major things. first, we need a reliable partner on the ukrainian side, which means we need a democratic, well-governed, non-corrupt, well-managed and led with a strong hand – i’m sorry to say that, this is not against democracy – we need a well-managed ukraine. on the other side, we need a leader of the international community. and this time it’s obvious, it’s going to be the european union. america can be a very important factor in military support of ukraine, but not in the development, in reconstruction. it’s on us. as a matter of fact, there is a thinking of creating a ukrainian reconstruction platform that would serve coordination of international partners willing to take part in the reconstruction of this country. third, we need resources, and by resources i mean public and private. but i think that the european union as a leader, should provide resources, maybe also in a similar way as we have provided it for the post-covid reconstruction, post-covid reaction. maybe we should follow the experience of the rrf of next generation eu and set up a fund, a facility to sort of galvanise resources from other sources. and fourth and most important, what we need for the reconstruction of ukraine is political will. it’s the realisation that a return to business as usual with russia is not imaginable at the moment. and the last point, we have to care for the victim more than for the aggressor.
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! demographic change and the effects of the covid pandemic, as well as the war in ukraine, have presented the union with a serious challenge to fill labour market gaps. one of the many sectors that are vulnerable to this is care, and in particular long-term care. and in this sector, the situation is getting worse every year and the forecasts are getting worse. the pandemic has highlighted many long-standing problems, such as unregistered work, brain drain, the need for better and more consistent data collection across member states, and the weak social protection of workers - all of which are extremely important. this can be countered by better targeted public funding that would facilitate access to legal and fair care provision. it is also important that member states control the entry of third-country nationals at the border.
the next speaker is mr terry reintke, and i would ask you to take your symbols down.
madam president, sorry, i have a very sore throat today, so i had to wear the cloth. colleagues, i wanted to share with you three important points about abortion. first of all, abortion is a fact. millions of people enter pregnancy each year. criminalising abortion does not lower the number of abortions, it actually just makes ...
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i’m sorry, i’m not going to take off the cloth right now, and i hope it’s okay for colleagues. so again ... (in response to clapping from the floor)are you seriously going to keep clapping until i take this off? colleague? (in response to continued clapping from the floor)okay, then i’m going to speak against this noise. first of all, abortion is a fact. millions of people end their pregnancy each year. criminalising abortion does not lower the number of abortions, it just makes them illegal and very often unsafe. thirdly, and this is important for me, unsafe abortions are a leading, yet preventable, reason for maternal death. so, if this was about life and health, the answer to the problem would actually be obvious: providing safe and legal access to abortion care, providing safe and legal access to contraception, providing safe and legal access to sexual education and to universal healthcare. but it is not! because it is about exercising power: power over other people’s bodies, power over other people’s life choices, power over reproduction. i am not a vessel to supply infants. i and only i have the right to decide over my uterus, my ovaries and my body. until this is the case in europe, in the us, and all over the world – and colleague, also to you specifically – we are going to continue to fight here in this chamber and everywhere around the world. i salute the brave people in the us fighting for this, in europe and all over the world. (cheers from the floor) (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue—card speech)
blue-card reply. – well, i would definitely say that if you can wear a cross, i think you should also be able to wear a scarf like this, especially when you have a sore throat.
the next speaker is mrs simona baldassarre, but i would just ask all those members who have a sore throat today to organise other tissues, especially when they come to the podium.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! global threat to abortion rights the very title of this debate is absurd, because abortion is not a universal human right and is not covered by any international legislation, quite the opposite. the convention on the rights of the child stresses that because of his immaturity, a child needs special care and attention both before and after birth. a child before birth has the right to medical care, to inheritance, and you think he has no right to life. and as for the charter of fundamental rights, it says in article 2 that everyone has the right to life, because the right to life is the fundamental right from which all other rights are derived. the charter of fundamental rights, madam minister, does not need to be renewed, as president macron says, but its provisions must be implemented, because the right to life is a fundamental value on which the moral and social order is based. madam president, i would like to point out that you did not react to the behaviour that took place in the courtroom. you have allowed the brazen use of prohibited symbols. you didn't answer your phone. so i think that the member who didn't follow the rules should be punished, and attacking margarita, going up to her and yelling at the member is absolutely inappropriate. this is just the dictatorship of a crazy, raging left. (the president agreed to reply to the debate by raising the blue card)
do you accept a blue card from malin björk? she would like to ask you a question. i will give her the floor, but first say yes, symbols are not allowed to be carried in the room. as chairing, i said that to those members who i realise they are wearing a scarf, and i didn’t accept it. and ms reintke left the room right now. so i just repeat it to everybody: don’t wear symbols, even if you have a sore throat or something else.
blue-card speech. – poland already has a total ban on abortion, and now you’re making a mass register of pregnant women. for me, this is dystopian, it’s totalitarian, it does not belong in a democratic society. you are treating women like cattle. how dare you? how dare you?
respond to the request by raising the blue card. you use language that is unacceptable to a cultured person. i don't want you to insult poland and the polish government. you have incomplete knowledge because abortion is not 100% illegal in poland. if you wish to speak on the subject of poland, please first obtain an honest knowledge of the subject. comparing people to cattle is, i understand, appropriate in communist culture, not in my culture.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a 'blue card' intervention. mrs. rodríguez palop, in our country we know that there are many women who are pressured to give up their babies because they cannot take on a childhood. they do get funding for abortions, but not to support them with their financial situation. do you not think that it should be a privilege for women who are financially able to have children?
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. abortion in spain is free.
thank you very much, maria. there is a blue card again from karen melchior if you’re ready to accept it. i think it is great that we have such a lively debate where there are questions asked and members are answering, so we are just doing exactly what everybody wants: a lively debate. but i also ask you, and this is something that applies to the ongoing speakers, not to raise the blue card more than once, otherwise the debate is taking longer and longer, as i indicated already. so karen melchior gets the floor, but we don’t continue like this.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a 'blue card' intervention. all abortions are unsafe, always ending a developing life; in fact, none of us would be here if our mother had aborted. what do you think of this reflection, mrs. walsh?
madam president! u.s. secretary of state madeleine albright once said that there's a special place in hell for women who don't support other women. i have the impression, listening to this room today, that those were prophetic words. there's got to be something to this. dear ladies, there is a special place for women who are not in solidarity with other women. another icon of the women's rights movement, justice ruth bader ginsburg, once said she didn't believe abortion would ever be allowed again. generations of women have suffered the consequences of roe v. wade. unfortunately, two years after judge ginsberg's death, that scenario is coming true. not just in the united states, but in many other places around the world, including the european union. in poland, just a few days ago, a pregnancy registry was announced, a kind of dystopian series "handbook stories". it just goes to show that women's rights are not given once and for all. it shows that women's rights, like human rights, because one and the same thing has happened here many times, does not exclude the other, because it is the same thing, women's rights must be fought every day. i have a request to the european council and to the european commission. europe must set an example: leading by example. it's our foreign policy. we have to set an example, and that's why we have to fix this issue as quickly as possible internally, for example by amending the bill of rights, but also internationally to make sure that reproductive rights, sexual rights, including women's rights, are finally universally recognized as human rights, and that no woman ever does to another woman what some of them are doing in this room today. that's what i wish for all women in the world. (the speaker agreed to reply to the speech by raising the blue card)
blue-card reply. – there is a special place for everyone who violates human rights, so i fully agree with you, but we are today talking again, and again, and again on the resolution, describing how there are still violations of human rights. but i want to stand here one day when we will work on the resolution that finally puts in place a kind of a standardisation, that puts the issues concerning the right to abortion at the front of human rights. i am still waiting for a date when we will debate that issue in this house, and this day has not come.
just before we go on with the debate, i remind all members who are participating in this lively debate that when you are raising the blue—card, it’s not one minute, it’s 30 seconds you have in order to ask the question, and 30 seconds to answer. so please respect your speaking time.
madam president, thank you very much for the way you are conducting this very important debate. this resolution talks about threats, and we have heard a lot about the title, but it is the threat to sexual and reproductive rights in many, many places around the world, in places where dictatorships are advancing and also in advanced democracies like the united states, where a decision by the supreme court could stop the right to abortion being a constitutional right. but the threats are also here, they are in this gallery; we have seen it, we are seeing it: they are in europe, they are in poland, they are in hungary, they are in slovakia, where legislation is being passed to violate a fundamental right, which is the right of women to decide about their own motherhood. that is why we must include the right to abortion in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, as president macron also asked us to do, because we have to constitutionalize it. let's be honest, this debate is not about the right to life: when abortion is banned, abortion does not decrease, but the number of women who have to have an abortion in clandestine conditions increases. doesn't the lives of millions of women who bleed to death in clandestine abortions matter? no, it is not about the right to life: it is about the right to freedom of women, and a democratic society trusts women, it does not control them.
madam president, if unwanted pregnancies was something that happened to men, we would have an abortion clinic in every town, every village – several of them. they would probably be quite nice places, maybe cosy, where you were met in a very nice way, could have a chat, could have a talk, and where you would be received with no shame, no stigma, no judgement. that’s the way it should have been. instead, we live in a society where there are strong political forces that want to control our lives and sexuality. the us supreme court wants to ban abortion. in poland they have already banned abortion, and now they want to mass—register pregnant women. in malta, abortion is banned, and access is severely limited in several european countries. but we, feminists here, we are not having it! everywhere in the world, women are mobilising for our right to decide freely over our bodies and our sexuality. everywhere in the world, we show concrete solidarity by, for example, providing the ‘day after’ pill. and everywhere in the world, we will stand in political solidarity with the us women, but also globally, until we have claimed the right to free, legal and accessible abortion care everywhere.
madam president, dear colleagues, it is absolutely mind—blowing that we are standing here and having this absolutely disturbing debate on the possible future decision of an independent court of our democratic partner in the face of serious global challenges. at almost every single plenary, we are having resolutions on so-called sexual and reproductive rights, despite the very clear provisions of our founding treaties that this area belongs exclusively to the member states. we are not only commenting on this topic without any competence to do so, but we also want to criticise the usa for something that hasn’t even happened yet. i am wondering how far are we to go in crossing our competences? – našich občanov sme sa rok v rámci konferencie o budúcnosti európy pýtali, v akej európe chcú žiť. to si vážne, kolegovia, myslíme, že riešiť budúce možné rozhodnutia súdov iných štátov je to, čo občania od nás očakávajú? v čase vojny, obrovského zdražovania a ďalších ekonomických problémov znásobených dopadmi pandémie? pre mňa najväčším problémom európskej únie je to, že neprinášame riešenia na problémy, ktoré občania cítia a sú v našej kompetencii. ale naopak, strácame čas ideologickými zápasmi, ktoré do našej kompetencie vôbec nepatria. zaradenie tohto bodu na plenárne zasadnutie je výsmechom občanov a európskej demokracie a je v rozpore so základným právom na život.
madam president, let no one be mistaken: this is not a debate on a judgment of the supreme court of the united states which has not yet occurred, no; this point has been brought to the agenda of the european parliament by parliamentary groups, and men and women, members of this european parliament, firmly committed to the sexual and reproductive rights of women and to the idea that they are an expression of fundamental rights protected by the charter - which binds its member states with the same legal value as the treaties - rights such as personal liberty and the equal dignity of all persons, such as privacy and the free development of the personality. so if that judgment comes, which would overturn the historic roe v wade judgment of 1973, we will regret it, but we have no jurisdiction over it; now, against any step back, against any retrogression or setback that comes as a result of the push of reactionary movements that are trying to shake the foundations of the equal dignity of all persons and the freedom and sexual and reproductive rights of women in europe, you must know that this european parliament will do everything in its power to denounce it, to fight it and, if necessary, to correct it with european legislation.
madam president, it was a lively debate, i think we can say, this evening. an overturn of the roe v. wade would be a tragedy – i think everybody said that already. not just for women in the us but also for women in europe. the ones who make women suffer in the us are also active here, and they are successful in their repression. we even heard some today here in this parliament. in poland, there is a near—total ban on abortion and the pis will even introduce a pregnancy register to control women. in several eu member states, abortion is a crime. anti-abortion activists claim that they are saving lives but the results, colleagues, are unsafe abortions and maternal deaths. they force women to have an abortion even when they are victims of a rape. can you imagine? colleagues, the anti—abortionists don’t save lives. so we have to make sure that the right to abortion becomes a fundamental right. let us work to decriminalise abortion in our member states and let us fight for the inclusion of the right to abortion in the eu charter for fundamental rights. my body, my rights – are you with me?
madam president! we can't have any doubt in this house. abortion is a human right. there is no equality and there will be no rule of law without guaranteeing women the right to decide for themselves, for their bodies, for their health, for their future. unfortunately, there are still countries in the european union where there is no access to legal abortion, no access to modern contraception and no good sex education, and the european commission has done nothing for three years to change the situation of tens of millions of women and girls. in poland, in 2020, politicians virtually eliminated access to abortion, and now they are launching the so-called pregnancy registry. instead of supporting women, they want to control them. the european commission must stop playing the card on abortion rights. she must fight anti-woman populism with determination. it doesn't matter if it's poland, malta or the united states. let's stick with the women.
prime minister! look at this: whether it's in houston or warsaw, men whose faith is driving them insane want to decide the fate of women. today, they raise their hands for women's rights in the united states. in my country, in poland, thousands of women are afraid. every second polish woman doesn't want to be a mother because polish women are intimidated by the restrictive law. they are afraid that if they miscarry, the police will knock on their door, because the government in poland is introducing a pregnancy registry new weapons to fight women. the ministry of health says that this registry was created out of concern for the health of poles. but we already know that when the government in poland talks about caring for the citizens, the citizens have something to fear. and women in particular. the pis has betrayed them many times. abortion is always a very difficult decision for everyone - for the mother, for the environment, for the family. but a woman should be in charge of her own body and her own future.
hon. chairman, in 1973, the u.s. supreme court ruled in roe v. wade, and then abortion advocates had the same narrative as they have today: "my body, my choice". my mother was to give birth to my sister that same year, but she found out she was carrying twins at birth, so i had two sisters. my dad was a doctor. mom had the best medical care, but back then, they couldn't even diagnose twins. in contrast, today we know all the details of the baby at every week of pregnancy. we know that a baby's heart starts beating on day 20. science has made great strides, and you abortion promoters still have the same narrative, and that's why you can't win this fight because you ignore the science. so let's reconcile our views with science and biological facts.
madam president! today we are faced with a really, really sad debate, which proves one thing, that there is a clash between the civilization of life and the civilization of death. this room today proves it. it was said before one of the first speeches, that the french president wants to include the right to abortion in the charter of fundamental rights, and the brave pro-life circles, including myself, want to include in the charter of fundamental rights the right to protect life from conception to natural death, the right to protect the unborn child. procreational health, reproductive health, these are beautiful, really beautiful slogans, but this is an ideological framework. behind that veneer is despair, sadness, often depression. women who have abortions are left alone, and they're often left alone with a huge psychological problem. i'm finished, madam chairman. the european union talks a lot about freedom, about human rights, about women's rights. and when will he be on the side of innocent children? it has been said that the european union must win this battle, and for the time being it is losing it because it is simply depopulating itself and that is the truth. (the president agreed to reply to the debate by raising the blue card)
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. madam deputy, one thing to say, if you don't want an abortion, then don't have one. as you know, i'm from silesia. i have 22 kilometers to the czech part of silesia. how will you explain to the silesian frogs, the citizens of poland, this paradox and these limits of the absurd?
response to an emergency signalled by the raising of a blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. mr. postle, we are so biologically different. i'm a woman, you're a man, and everything's fine. we're also talking about equality here. congressman biedron, a bit of a militant feminist, just sent us back to hell. well, he's not god yet. so here's my caution, mr. ambassador, but mr. ambassador, i'll tell you one thing, before i came into this big politics, i humbly worked very hard in environments where women had to make that decision. and i'm very happy that there are many women who, because they found a helping hand, their children are in the world today and they are happy about it. you know what they say? today, i would be looking for that third, fourth, or tenth child if i did. and that's why i always, always give a hand, and i advise you to do that, too. and even if it is, there are many families waiting for children.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 9 june 2022. the following table is presented in order of appearance: ♪ he's looking at the minutes of the meeting. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
for your information, the members not elected have informed the president of the change in committee appointments. this decision will be recorded in the minutes of today's plenary session and will enter into force on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the debate on six draft resolutions on respect for human rights in xinjiang, including leaked documents from re-education camps in the region (2022/2700 ((rsp))*._______________* look at the minutes of the meeting.
madam president! first of all, i cannot but agree with my predecessor, mr procaccini, who rightly pointed out the hypocrisy in this house. we've spent a lot of time today voting on the fight against carbon emissions, and at the same time we're working with the largest economy in the world, which is one of the largest emitters of that carbon dioxide -- i'm thinking here of china. of course, the situation in china's northwestern xinjiang autonomous region, home to some 10 million ethnic uighurs and kazakhs, has deteriorated rapidly. in particular, attention should be paid to the year 2014. this is a chinese government campaign with the communist-like message "strike hard against brutal terrorism". starting in april 2017, the chinese government began roundups in which an estimated 2 million kazakhs and uyghurs were detained. he has placed them in large extrajudicial political re-education camps, where they are held without charge and without any legal norms. the uighurs and other ethnic minorities in xinjiang are subjected to arbitrary detention, torture, forced labor, political indoctrination, extreme restrictions on religious and cultural practices, and forced sterilization. we talk about genocide, but there's really no hard and real action.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 9 june 2022.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on the instrumentalization of the judiciary as a tool of repression in nicaragua (2022/2701 (rsp)) *._______________* look at the minutes of the meeting.
madam president! since the beginning of the ortega and murillo regime, there have been increasing reports of human rights violations and abuses. the regime still holds over 150 political prisoners, many of whom suffer from lack of adequate food and medical care. the others are in solitary. ortega's corrupt security and judicial system has arrested these individuals for engaging in independent journalism, working in civil society organizations, seeking to run for office, and publicly expressing opinions contrary to government orthodoxy, as well as for other activities considered normal in a free society. in the context of the complete lack of independence of the judiciary, the regime's repression is also directed against civil society groups, political opponents, journalists. repressive laws are passed that violate the right to participate in political life and freedom of speech. since 2018, the authorities have revoked the legal registration of dozens of ngos and universities. ecr is critical of the lack of human rights mechanisms, the lack of rule of law and the general repression against nicaraguans.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, daniel ortega and his wife rosario murillo continue to unleash a brutal repression against the nicaraguan people. they instrumentalise the country’s judicial system and use purpose-made laws such as foreign agent law and special law on cybercrime to imprison political rivals, journalists, civil society activists, businesspeople, and really anyone who crosses their path to unlimited power and total control. they have put universities under political control. they have shut down over 350 civil society organisations in this year alone, including ngos that had helped poor children by defending movement against sexual violence or delivered aid to victims of natural disasters. they use as a pretext the recommendations by the financial action task force against terrorism and money laundering, perverting these international recommendations to justify their unacceptable repression. nicaragua, after more than 50 years of totalitarian rule, remains one of the poorest countries in latin america. the social, political and economic situation has led more than 150,000 nicaraguans to flee and seek asylum in neighbouring countries since 2018. ortega is forcing the best and the brightest into exile, jeopardising nicaragua’s future and setting back the country after decades of long-fought development – development supported by the eu and others who are at the receiving end of unfounded accusations by the ruling couple. justice is being made a mockery of and used to legitimise repression. trials of political prisoners held behind closed doors and lacking any trace of due process resulted in at least 44 harsh and disproportionate sentences handed down since 15 march. we have reiterated our request for the unconditional liberation of all prisoners in a spokesperson statement on 14 march. we maintain the pressure on the regime and will continue to do so. we will also continue to support the nicaraguan people and, in particular, the most vulnerable groups in their legitimate search for a free country and a better future. we would very much welcome the european parliament’s strong commitment to this endeavour and it is a key part of our engagement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 9 june 2022.
the agenda includes a discussion on violations of media freedom and the safety of journalists in georgia. (parliament adopted the resolution)
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, as an associated country and one aspiring for eu candidate status, georgia must adhere to the basic conditions, including respect for human rights. unfortunately, over the past years, we are witnessing a serious undermining of media freedom, which is part of the broader trend of democratic backsliding in the country. i believe that these trends are counter to the georgian people’s desire to live in a free, democratic and sovereign georgia, as well as their european aspirations. i therefore call on the georgian authorities to utilise fully georgia’s legal framework for guaranteeing the freedom of expression and the freedom of media, to press on with reforms to ensure independence of the judiciary, to stop political polarisation and reverse the democratic backsliding. i also believe an important step to support the european path of georgia is to impose targeted sanctions on the oligarch bidzina ivanishvili for his destructive role in the georgian politics and economy. finally, let me stress that as a friend of the georgian people, we will not stand idly by while media freedom continues to deteriorate and there is democratic backsliding, which goes against the georgian people’s european aspirations. we stand with the georgian people.
author. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, a free and independent media is an integral part of georgia’s eu candidacy. however, such unacceptable actions as the silencing of critical journalists, restricting their access to information, and openly threatening and prosecuting them are moving georgia further away from this ambition. the european union, as a guardian of fundamental freedoms, has protected and will continue to protect media freedom in georgia, even if it means openly criticising the policies of those in power. there is no room for political meddling in the media. if previously the european parliament used to naively hope for the goodwill and understanding of the georgian government, we are now demanding a change in the state’s policy and attitude. it is time for tbilisi to understand what is at stake for the future of the country.
author. – madam president, colleagues, eu integration enjoys enormous support from the georgian people. many governments and members of the political elite of georgia contributed to this result. the most prominent of them are now in prison. the third president of georgia, mikheil saakashvili, as well as nika gvaramia, the one-off subject of today’s debate, appealed to us, the best friends of georgia, despite their criticism of current government feeling historic significance and historic threat to their country, to grant candidacy status, not to leave georgia in a post—soviet swamp and not to punish the georgian people by leaving them behind the potential iron curtain. look at what is happening in ukraine. i, myself, opposing some time ago a communist regime, can feel this with all georgians. and i also appeal to you: grant candidacy status to georgia as well as ukraine and moldova.
madam president, last year, fifty-three journalists were brutally attacked by far-right groups while covering the lgbtqi demonstration in georgia. this year, those same groups have already announced their opposition to the march. persecution of journalists and attacks on press freedom are, unfortunately, longstanding problems in georgia, as are persecution of the lgbtq community and hate speech against them. but once again, it seems that the european union's position is motivated by the important geostrategic role of the caucasian country and its application for membership, and not really by the human rights situation in georgia. we demand that freedom of the press and expression be guaranteed and that all necessary measures be taken to protect the lgbtqi community. the georgian people deserve our solidarity and respect, and that means not being used as puppets for external interests that often have nothing to do with defending freedom of expression or defending human rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i have a personal feeling about georgia. i've been to this country over 10 times. i received a very high state decoration from president saakashvili. we know what's going on with him, and i know that georgia was the first country to be attacked by russia 14 years ago during the beijing olympics. i also know that the georgian people, no matter how we judge the current government, deserve a place in the european political family that is the union. i think the eu summit should decide to invite ukraine, which is rightly so, but also moldova and georgia to the european union as candidate countries. i think these countries deserve it. if it doesn't, it'll be the best present for russia and for putin. i warn against attacking these countries, especially now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, perhaps this was not the time to discuss or even to have a resolution on georgia in the current geopolitical context. however, we have trusted in the power of dialogue between us, focusing our attention on the violation of media freedoms and the safety of journalists and also identifying the responsibilities of government authorities. we have jointly encouraged the georgian authorities, the european authorities, the various actors, the various institutions, and above all the georgian people, in the resolution to go ahead with the article 49 procedures for the recognition of the status of candidate for accession to the european union. that is right, we need to encourage this process. the aspirations of the georgian people must be met by the european parliament. but let us not waste this effort, this hard work that we have been doing for years. with this resolution we risk putting a damper on the way. we must be demanding, but we cannot play a political game here by claiming that we decide which ruling class the georgian people must have. that is why we must encourage the process to go forward.
it was not really a question, so i do not know whether mr cozzolino wants to add anything, but i think he agrees with what the honourable member said. we can then continue the discussion.
madam president, georgia is a key country in our eastern partnership and i have georgia deep in my heart because it is an early christian country. but also because it is a country of citizens who believe in democratic values. freedom of speech and freedom of the media are therefore among the cornerstones of democracy, and if they are threatened, we believe that this is indeed a downward trajectory from the protection of the democratic rule of law and human rights. we should therefore assure the georgian citizens of their european future within our community - the community of democratic states based on the rule of law. call on them to say no to this violation of the fundamental values of the democratic rule of law and to restore freedom of speech and freedom of the press in their own country.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, free, diverse and independent media are essential for any society to promote and protect freedom of opinion and expression and other human rights. by facilitating the free flow of information and ideas on matters of general interest, and by ensuring transparency and accountability, independent media constitute one of the cornerstones of democratic society. as you know very well, georgia is a very close partner in our neighbourhood. our strong relationship is based on an ambitious association agreement with a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement underpinned by our common commitment to human rights and fundamental freedoms. the verdict against mr nika gvaramia comes against the backdrop of repeated calls by the eu to further reform the judiciary in order to instil trust and increase its independence – a longstanding commitment by georgian authorities. the commission has been very clear on this point – if georgia is serious about its european path, there can be no room for politicised justice and no room for violations of media freedoms. we note with concern an increasing number of episodes of violence against journalists in georgia. violence and intimidation are never acceptable. we call upon the authorities to leave no space to impunity, to launch impartial, effective and timely investigations on these cases, and to improve the protection, safety and empowerment of journalists and other media professionals. unfortunately, we have seen little progress on the investigations and prosecutions of the organisers of the violent attacks on 5 july 2021 against lgbtiq people and journalists. we call again on the authorities to redouble their efforts and ensure the protection of freedom of assembly against any hateful and intolerant attacks. we continue to be concerned about the independence and impartiality of the georgian judiciary. the eu has repeatedly invited georgia to address these issues and engage in a thorough and comprehensive judicial reform. let me conclude by stressing that the eu remains a close friend and partner to georgia and is firmly engaged to further deepen eu—georgia relations. this is a crucial moment for georgia and the wider region in the context where russia’s war against ukraine has clearly created a new reality. we truly hope that the georgian government we will seize this moment to make progress on georgia’s democratic path and uphold the high standards in the protection and promotion of fundamental freedoms and human rights. the way authorities will perform in this area will be crucial for any next steps for georgian european path.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 9 june 2022. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. we have drafted a good text of the resolution on the violation of press freedom and the safety of journalists in georgia (2022/2702 ((rsp)) which recalled events such as the attack by far-right activists on dozens of journalists in tbilisi on 5 july 2021 in connection with the planned march of dignity. the investigation and prosecution of those who oppose the current government undermines public confidence not only in the judicial institutions but also in the government itself. georgia is one of the strategic countries with which integration is important, especially in the light of the submission of its application for membership of the european union on 3 march 2022. i agree with the clause calling on georgia to guarantee freedom of the media and to guarantee unimpeded access to information that should be publicly available. the text also condemns the conviction of niki gwaramiya, the director-general of the opposition tv channel mtawari, and supports the appeal by reporters without borders for a review of the conviction of niki gwaramiya, and calls on the georgian authorities to release former president mikheil saakashvili from prison so that he can receive appropriate treatment abroad. the safety, freedom and independence of journalists, key elements of the right to freedom of expression and freedom of the media enshrined in article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu and in article 10 of the european convention on human rights, constitute pillars of democracy.
madam president! indeed, as one of my predecessors rightly pointed out, the only word that is being used at the moment is shame, shame that the european parliament is dealing with such an important issue after 10 p.m. that we are hiding from this debate. it is also a shame, if you'll excuse me, commissioner, that i find your words so oblique, trying to put things in perspective rather than calling them by their real names. these christians were murdered on the feast of the descent of the holy spirit. and this is not the result of the cattle herders and farmers, this is not the result of climate change, but the result of hatred in the hearts of muslims, terrorists, the vile people of boko haram, who in the name of their insane ideology of faith murder other believers, in this case christians. over 1,500 christians are killed every year in nigeria. how moving are the words of the head of the international organization christian solidarity worldwide, who says that there are more mass graves in the areas where christians live than infrastructure investments. these are the fruits of that hatred. these are not the fruits of climate change, but the fruits of the hatred of muslim terrorists. and let us call things by their right names and not hide in the european parliament at 10 p.m. with such an important debate.
mr. chairman, please! to improve decision-making in the european union, it is not necessary to turn the rhine's rod, it is enough to de-bureaucratize the union and it is enough that we simply respect each other in this union, because the union was created as a community of strong, sovereign and independent states. that diversity has always been her strength over the years. respect for national traditions, laws, laws, customs and a common foundation based on roman law, the right to life, christian ethics. that was the foundation of the european union, that was its strength. that was schuman's main idea, which you're here to refute. unfortunately, in recent years, the european union has become a soulless bureaucratic leviathan, which is focused on the instinct of those member states that think differently than liberals, than greens, than the left altogether. there is a spirit of disrespect for the internal decisions of the states that make up the community, systematic attacks against governments that disagree with the main engineer of the treaty change are taking place here. that's why we say no to such changes. systemic reforms should be a return to the roots, to the common values of nations and states. the eu is a key partner in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. but it is also a good thing for strong member states and for the european union's powers and institutions to be clearly defined in the treaties.
mr. chairman, please! the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe, which ended in may, are a clear signal that the people of our union want change. of course, one can have a feeling of inadequacy that the debate was not as wide as we had assumed, but that does not diminish the importance of the voice of thousands of citizens. the european parliament, therefore, in the light of the views expressed, calls on the european council to convene a convention to consider amendments to the treaties. the aim of these changes is to enable the european union to respond more quickly and effectively, especially in cases of crises such as covid-19 or russian aggression against ukraine. to do so, the eu institutions must move away from unanimity to qualified majority voting. it is also necessary to move towards deeper european integration and the community method towards federalisation. these factors should be reflected in the changes to the treaties if we are to achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness in the decision-making mechanisms of our union. the convening of the convention is necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the peoples of europe demand a health union. they demand an energy union. and above all, in the face of putin’s cruel aggression, they demand a defence union. we need standing military forces. we need a commissioner for defence. we need joint purchases of equipment. we need a joint headquarters. and this cannot be done without treaty change. we need to do it because in future, if mr trump returns to the white house or the united states is involved in the pacific, we might not be able to rely on the united states, and we should not be helpless. so i’m in favour of moving to the convention, but don’t take it for granted that i would always be in favour of majority voting. because in this crisis, on the one hand, i feel mr orbán should not be allowed to veto sanctions, and on the other hand, we have a structural problem. germany and france, the largest countries in the eu, are also the most secure. and during the ukraine war they have not convinced me that they feel the sense of threat of us on the flanks. if we move away from unanimity, they will get an effective veto on anything the eu does, and this requires consideration. i am looking forward to a lively debate.
mr. chairman, please! since poland was mentioned in this discussion, i would like to say that there is a polish saying, the proverb "there was no us, there was a forest, there will be no us, there will be a forest". this is, it seems, a matter of course, but before you try to criticize poland, here's some data. poland is now the european leader in forest area. the forest area in poland is now over 9.2 million hectares, corresponding to a forest cover of 29.6%. the vast majority are state forests, of which about 7,3 million hectares are managed by the state forestry state forests. and it's important to note that in my country, forests grow on the weakest soils. responsible forestry policy is a very good opportunity to pay a small tribute to the people responsible for this policy here in the european parliament. i bow to the polish forester, the polish naturalist, the employees of the national parks, the landscape parks, the polish hunter. god bless you. the gift.
that concludes this item.
the minutes of this meeting shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next meeting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 9 june 2022.
dear colleagues, last week, the remains of dom phillips, a journalist, and his friend and indigenous rights advocate, bruno pereira, were found in a remote region of the amazon. they were murdered while travelling deep into the rainforest to speak with indigenous people to research on a book on the challenges they face. our thoughts are with their relatives and their loved ones.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sitting of 9 june are available. are there any comments?
madam president! i wanted to make a formal request to postpone the vote on the elements of the 'fit for 55' package until the next part-session of parliament. why would you do that? i'm justifying it. europeans are struggling with the effects of inflation. life is getting more expensive, bankruptcies are increasing, families can't afford to pay their bills. it is not enough because europe lacks stable energy sources. there are three stable sources of energy: coal, gas and atomic. for the last few years, you've been fighting the atom and you've been fighting the coal. we're out of gas. what are the consequences? you see. and today, if we pass this bill, it will mean the end of coal, and at the same time it will mean for all europeans an increase in the cost of living. think about it, because you have to learn from your mistakes. otherwise, we'll be dependent on putin again. even the netherlands, full of wind turbines, is going back to coal, germany is going back to coal. think about it. we are responsible for the lives of europeans.
mr. chairman, please! commissioner, please! minister! tomorrow the european council must give a clear and very clear signal that ukraine, moldova, georgia are candidates for the european union. ukraine needs the european union, but the european union needs ukraine very much and all these countries, including the western balkan countries, to become members of our community. if they're in the european union, they're not in putin's sphere of influence. and the war in ukraine and the heroic struggle of the ukrainians is also fought in the name of us, of all europeans. we must be aware that ukrainians are fighting today for our freedom and sovereignty, and we must have a clear and solid message. we all have to be united, we have to support them militarily, humanitarianally and economically. this is our duty to the future of europe, to the future of our nations, to all of us. i also want to talk about the issues that you mentioned earlier, the crises that are plaguing and shaking europe. the food crisis that is knocking on the door of europe. we must support ukraine in the transport of grain. and we need to solve the energy crisis. decisions like the one we are taking in this room today are pushing europeans into poverty. we must protect the climate, but we must also be aware that we must first of all think about the possibilities for europeans and their safety.
in writing. we are facing a very important and equally necessary decision on the granting of candidate status to ukraine, moldova and georgia. we are witnessing the unjustified, immoral, and also unlawful aggression of putin's russia against independent and sovereign states. as the european communities, we are obliged to express our support for all those who are fighting today not only for their own sake but also for ours. the eu's position on the candidate country status will be a clear sign of solidarity with those countries affected by russia's territorial expansion. let us not allow the iron curtain to fall again after more than 30 years. people who don't know history are doomed to repeat its mistakes. we know this history and we have an obligation to ourselves and to all europeans to prevent it from happening again. i urge you once again to show your support and your willingness to help, because it is our duty.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. the report on the implementation of the sustainable development goals by the european union adopted by the envi and deve committees rightly draws attention to the negative impact of the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic and the war in ukraine on the implementation of the sustainable development goals. first of all, we cannot achieve the sustainable development goals without stability in the world -- political and economic stability. unemployment, inequality, poverty, hunger, all of these things combine to create conflict in many parts of the world, and they are holding us back from achieving the sustainable development goals. the pandemic and the war in ukraine have greatly destabilized an already difficult situation in the world. the resources allocated to official development assistance are already proving too small to meet growing needs. a social and institutional partnership is needed to implement the sustainable development goals. we need to rely on cooperation, partnership, and shared responsibility between public and private actors, ngos and citizens for the development process.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, european development cooperation policy is in the process of being transformed. we are witnessing a progressive subordination to interests which have nothing to do with the fight against inequality or poverty. and all of this in the midst of the climate emergency, which is the biggest challenge we face as a humanity. the sustainable development goals are not enough and their implementation is riddled with shortcomings. we have to go further. this report identifies some key elements for moving in that direction. we must break with the neoliberal corset of the european semester, which conditions any expansionist policy in favour of the european and global south working classes. and we need to improve the governance of the sdgs to avoid the increasing capture of multilateral agencies by corporate power. more prominence for local communities and organised civil society and no role for multinational companies in the development agenda. and no one is no one.
mr. chairman, please! to achieve the sustainable development goals, we need to focus on what i believe is the most important area of development that all the other goals depend on: access to water. it's where it all begins. without water, there's no access to food, without food, children can't go to school because they have to earn money to support their families. without education, there is no good-paying job, and the wheel of poverty keeps turning. to stop them, we need to ensure that everyone has access to water. that's how we can make real social progress. the achievement of the sustainable development goals is also linked to policy coherence for development. it is important that the european legislation we are creating here does not harm the development of the countries in the poorest regions of the world.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. national recovery programs, as the name suggests, should be an opportunity for the entire country. given that every plan must allocate tens of percent of resources to energy and digital transformation, on the surface, it seems to be ushering our cities, villages and communities into a new era, a new civilization. i guess so. i don't want to disappoint the urban youth, although it is true that they will be the most discriminated against in the kpo, but the approach of the pis government to the larger centres is unfair. it is hard not to have the impression that the provision of loans to cities such as warsaw, wroclaw or my hometown łódź, and their almost complete cut-off from kpo grants, is strictly political. why would you do that? there is simply no rift between pis and the rulers of these big cities and their inhabitants. already the tax policy of the pis is hitting the big cities. i therefore ask the commission to draw attention to the fact that, in connection with the implementation of the polish cfp, this money cannot be party-linked. this is a national, not a scriptural, rebuilding program.
in writing. the mff was intended to be a rapid response to the covid crisis, to protect the eu's internal market and to provide member states with measures to build resilience in the long term. the blocking of funds for my country, poland, among others, has shown that this mechanism has become a field for dirty political games. the implementation report was intended to be a kind of parliament's guidance to the commission in preparing the mff implementation report. the text covers a wide range of issues, including the need for greater energy independence, the issue of own resources and gender issues. although the polish national reconstruction plan has been accepted by the european commission and the council, colleagues in the european parliament cannot accept this fact. in the report, they blatantly blame poland for the failure to release funds, stating that due to the actions of the polish and hungarian governments, the funding from the rfg still did not reach the people and regions of poland and hungary. this is an outrageous and hurtful statement for poland, which is attacked and treated with double standards at every opportunity. this kind of unforgiving "kicking the ball" can be compared to the speeches of russian minister lavrov, who blames ukraine for the difficulties in exporting ukrainian grain, or the growing number of victims of hostilities. i strongly object to this treatment of my country!
in writing. erasmus+ is the flagship programme of the eu. the draft regulation establishing the programme attached great importance to the issue of social inclusion, so that participation in the programme was possible for people at risk of exclusion or who were already excluded for various reasons. in particular, it was emphasised that persons with disabilities, people with low incomes and people living in isolated areas of the eu who wish to participate in the programme should be given the opportunity to do so, so that participation in the programme does not have an elitist character. unfortunately, this report, like many others, proposes measures that lead to discrimination rather than solve it. the commission and the european parliament very often interpret the provisions of legal acts in an expansionary way, so that they correspond to the needs of the eu institutions and their policies, rather than to those of the member states, whose specificities are very different, including in the area of social inclusion and so-called vulnerable groups. that's the case here. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu-us joint action on the prevention of and fight against the illicit trade in human beings and the illicit exploitation of sexual and reproductive resources.
in writing. i am satisfied that montenegro is the most advanced in the negotiation process of all the candidate countries for accession to the european union. congratulations on your progress! as a member of the empl committee who has focused on social policy and social inclusion since the beginning of his career, i would like to focus on this theme. like the author of the report, i regret that persons with disabilities in montenegro continue to face many forms of discrimination. the ratification by montenegro of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is a milestone, setting new standards of functioning and state responsibility towards persons with disabilities. it is worth noting that this convention has been ratified by all the countries of the european union, as well as by the union as a whole. but in order to implement the convention, montenegro still needs to make many significant changes to its legislation. i would like to emphasise that the two most important legal bases on which the union is founded, the charter of fundamental rights and the treaty on the functioning of the european union, prohibit all discrimination on the grounds of disability. in building a fair, inclusive and modern society, the european union respects the rights of all its citizens: young, old, women, men, rich and poor, and those with disabilities. montenegro, if it wants to be part of the union, must fully commit itself to building such a society.
mr. chairman, please! in fact, this interesting discussion right now is about the security of the european union, because energy security is an important element of that security. i would therefore like to say, with my humble voice, that i support the measures that have been taken to store gas, but we still have to take the next step. hence my question to mr timmermans, if i may ask for an answer. i've been watching the gas market in europe and i've noticed that there are some offers to drill old gas wells. that takes money. these are the offers coming in from austria, from hungary. so, in short, without much interference in the natural environment, you can drill old wells to find new gas deposits. does the commissioner think that the european union could provide financial support for such solutions? that's my question, because of course the storage issue is one thing, but the other is the issue of buying gas from the russians and from putin and that is criminal. so shouldn't we prepare a financial offer from the european union to dig up old deposits and get gas from certain sources without too much interference in the environment?
in writing. the introduction of the obligation to store natural gas at member state level transfers the good practice applied by poland to the eu level. in poland, due to the security of supply risks arising from the need to cooperate with a russian supplier, we have been filling our warehouses to a level of over 90% for many years before each winter season. however, it is disappointing that the french presidency has not been open to proposals to strengthen the rules on certification. these proposals were intended to provide greater legal clarity on the course of action to be taken towards entities that would not qualify for certification. the provisions on certification should be permanently incorporated into the union acquis. we support the regulation in the spirit of compromise. whereas its overarching objective to ensure that stocks are filled before the winter season is crucial for energy security and the price level of the eu gas market. but we must do everything we can to ensure that we do not fill our storage tanks with gas from russia. we cannot financially support a state that instrumentally uses gas supplies to blackmail european countries and uses the profits from the sale of this raw material for criminal attacks that threaten us all.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, what a wonderful story this european taxation is! one day poland is opposing the plan to negotiate its recovery plan, the next day hungary is opposing it and it is not clear why. meanwhile, hundreds of multinationals are evading taxation, in defiance of the european people and in defiance of an agreement endorsed by 136 states in the oecd framework. mr macron told us in january that this issue was his priority. last friday, a miracle: after three failures, bruno le maire finally approves our request for a qualified majority. so, since it takes time, there is no other way to not send this tax revolution to the garbage. the french presidency of the council, mr macron, has seven days to propose enhanced cooperation between states wishing to fight for tax justice. if poland and hungary do not want to be part of it, they should not be part of it, but they should not rob us of the fiscal and social justice we have been waiting for so long.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rule of unanimity in the council protects the sovereignty of the member states of the union in the areas of law, particularly taxation. i am not surprised that the french presidency is seeking to challenge it, since emmanuel macron has always wanted to replace national sovereignty with a so-called european sovereignty. in the struggle between hungary and the french presidency today, i therefore support hungary. in order to defend its national interests, that state has the right to veto the adoption by the union of a tax reform. i certainly approve of the content of this tax reform, which consists in taxing the profits of large multinationals at 15%. i therefore regret the blocking of the budget, but the responsibility for this lies with the union: let it pay hungary the funds of the european recovery plan to which it is entitled instead of freezing them for purely ideological reasons, and hungary will lift its veto. morality: the rule of unanimity is the best weapon a state has to defend its sovereignty, as general de gaulle demonstrated as far back as 1965.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. well, you've organized a debate to condemn a state for using a veto, and you talk a lot about the rule of law. well, the rule of law is the rule of law. did the state have the right to do that? you did, but you don't like him enforcing his law. you talk a lot about democracy, but democracy is about respecting the voice of the other. and you want to condemn another voice today. well, for you, the rule of law is a breach of treaty, and that's what you see in a lot of other cases. and democracy is dictatorship, because only what we agree with is possible. and if you talk about solidarity, which you do, that's very good, but let's start with solidarity in the more important matters. well, for example, the ones that have led to the giant problems of inflation, namely nord stream. why isn't nord stream 2 deployed yet? do something, european commission, to dismantle this shameful project and then we can talk about real solidarity.
in writing. there is no ep plenary session without a debate on poland or hungary. what are the results of these debates? i don't know anything. there is no change of power, as mr pons of the epp wanted. there is no starving poland, as mrs. barney of s&d wanted. there is no rainbow revolution that mrs. reintke saw. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. there is a deep injustice behind all this, which gives the old eu countries a moral superiority over the countries that joined the eu after 2004. this is also a reflection of the economic interests of the old eu countries, which have not been able to control their internal problems of security and unemployment for years, and are trying at all costs to build a scenario in which they look decent. enough of double standards in the eu, time for cooperation and understanding, not the shoe and federalism.
madam president! well, i wanted to remind you that you have just condemned poland for the solutions in the judiciary that you yourself apply, but you claimed that you do it because you defend the judges' rights to independence. what are you doing now? you want to condemn the judges of the united states for abusing their independence. this is the true tripartite power according to you: the judges can only judge as you wish. congratulations to you! and you want to teach morality to america, which you hate so much. but what have you really done to protect the lives of children in ukraine? and i remind you that ukraine is the border of the union, not the united states. and yet, it's a strange coincidence that the united states is able to send weapons there. what about you? let's remember the germans. what did you promise? 30 of the cheetah. they're still missing today because, and i quote, "they're out of ammo". the mars launcher. but they're not here because you say there's a software problem. iris-t systems are missing because the kit was not ready. by your inaction, you are contributing to the death of innocent children. and it's no wonder, ladies and gentlemen, that you would condemn the united states today for wanting to protect life. a regrettable consequence of that. i know i'm in the minority here, a very small minority, but even if i were here alone, someone has to defend life. someone has to protect the lives of the most vulnerable. and we will do it to the end, because we are for a civilization of life, not a civilization of death.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this debate. that a raped and pregnant 10-year-old girl is told to consider her situation an opportunity is, of course, inhumane and unacceptable. women’s and girls’ rights are at risk, endangering the achievements fought for, which are at the very core of eu values. the aim to achieve full gender equality, the full and equal enjoyment of all rights for all women and girls in all their diversity should guide our actions. we need to continue to push forward on women’s rights. strong women’s rights are an asset and an achievement the whole of europe should be proud of. we should push forward. the eu will continue to engage with partners across the globe to advance the full enjoyment of the human rights of women. we need to stand with all women in all their diversity. limiting rights would only create greater injustice and inequalities.
written. power is never given, power is always taken. we are witnessing a continuing assault on women's rights, particularly the right to choose. and no, this is not just happening in the united states, but also in the european union, which has been for years empowered by toxic initiatives like agenda europe. do we have an adequate answer? i'm afraid not we forget that the struggle for equality never ends and that even today we must fight for our rights, pushing back boundaries, and not living under the illusion that the power for which women have fought so hard is our earned right.
in writing. how is it possible that in modern democracies, where the rights of everyone and everyone should be respected, more than half of the population is deprived of their fundamental rights? the fact that the u.s. supreme court has struck down the constitutional protection of the right to abortion is shocking and damaging to women. in several countries, legislation has been enacted that severely restricts or bans abortion. above all, it will deepen social and economic disparities, as it will disproportionately affect the less well-off and the socially disadvantaged, who are predominantly black and belong to minorities. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of women are respected. europe must never become america! the fight for women's equality around the world has already taken a lot of energy, courage and sacrifice. it saddens me that after all these years we are again forced to defend and fight for rights that were once won. we socialists and democrats are on the side of women and girls and we will not allow this dangerous trend of right-wing conservative forces to continue. every woman in europe must have the right to decide about her body. women's sexual and reproductive health is a fundamental human right, period!
in writing. did you know that in many countries around the world, abortion is the only medical treatment that has its own specific legal regulations? no special prescriptions are accepted for any other medical procedure, service or intervention, except for abortion. why would you do that? because it's about controlling women, about limiting their rights. the same is true of case law. and the supreme court of the united states has made that clear. abortion is a woman's human right. restricting access to abortion is a violation of the right to dignity, safety, health and life. crucially, the women who suffer most from restricted access to abortion are the less well-off, the disabled, the unemployed, minorities, migrants. restricting access to abortion will hurt the women who are worse off, and the better off, the educated, the wealthy will be able to cope. and those who make the regulations that set the limits and the prohibitions need to know that. and they will be responsible for any consequences of these restrictions and bans.
madam president, commissioner, the eu’s border with morocco has been the scene of serious human rights violations for many years, not just now. but what we just saw 10 days ago is hard to forget and should be harder to justify. sadly, the death of human beings has left the european union indifferent. the spanish state justified and thanked the intervention of the moroccan police, and the european commission continues to show – despite the commissioner’s words today – an eloquent disregard. why does the death of these human beings go so unnoticed? can anyone explain why there are de facto first- and second—class human beings? there are no excuses that can justify this crime. but i also see no interest in finding solutions. it seems that if wars, droughts, famines and epidemics are in africa, their effects are smaller and more bearable for europeans. what a grave mistake.
madam president, twenty-three more of our fellow citizens have recently lost their lives in tragic circumstances, which calls us to rise to the occasion. the migration issue is not a matter for political exploitation, nor is it a matter for quantifying humanism, human life is of supreme value to all, nor is it a matter for dividing the countries of the european union by geographical location. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must show a practical zero tolerance for the vile work of traffickers and their supporters. the answer to this problem, ladies and gentlemen, is found in international law and european values: is the common european asylum policy; the european union is a member of the european union, and its role is to ensure that the union is able to fulfil its obligations in a fair and equitable manner, to assume responsibilities in a spirit of genuine solidarity and to ensure the effective and effective protection of the external borders.
madam president, commissioner johansson, an incident at the external border of the european union resulting in a still undetermined and overwhelming death toll is regrettable and unacceptable. but it did not happen in melilla, it happened on the other side of the border between spain and morocco, that is, the border between the whole european union and the whole african continent. and this european parliament, in its resolution, must certainly demand an independent, thorough investigation to clarify what has happened, to determine the responsibilities and to take the necessary measures to ensure that this does not happen again. but just as it is not enough to express grief and dismay, it is not enough to focus or stop sight on morocco, which is undergoing a major migration pressure from sub-saharan africa. the majority of the thousands involved in this incident at the external border were sudanese and chadian, who were also victims of illicit trafficking and of mafias that exploit human beings in their desperation, and who were therefore subjected to this inhuman slavery which explains the situation in which we find ourselves. it is therefore essential that this european parliament demands shared responsibility, as well as solidarity, as european law requires, for the whole of the european union and not just for the states bordering the african continent or the mediterranean. let them also demand that the business model of the human trafficking mafias be dismantled and finally demand legal and safe pathways for all those people who, in their desperation, will otherwise risk their lives in the attempt or lose it. as has unfortunately been the case.
madam president, madam commissioner, i note that, as usual, the council is absent, apparently it doesn’t care. twenty-three people dead or 37 people dead, we don’t know, but, as so often before, we are all horrified. and then i ask myself, how many more times are we going to have this debate? because we’ve had it many times before, and then we say the policy is failing and oh, it’s people smugglers. no, colleagues. this is the policy, because the member state governments want deterrents. they think that this is going to scare people away. so let’s go back in time a little bit. little alan kurdi, do you remember him ? the little two-year-old boy washed up on the shores of turkey. do you remember the people who died in the freezing forests on the border of poland and belarus not so long ago? do you remember the thousands, if not tens of thousands of people who are at the bottom of a mass grave in the mediterranean? do we remember the people who died when they were pushed back from greece to turkey? do we remember the slave markets in libya? do we remember the people who have died in the desert? that, colleagues, is the policy. it’s not a failure of the policy, it is the policy. yes, madam president, i'm coming to my conclusion. i would just like to say one thing to the absent council. i think it’s a scandal that they are not here because they are actually the biggest obstacle to finding a solution to this situation, to finding a coherent asylum and migration policy. and i can tell you that, for me, screening, eurodac and building walls is not a policy.
madam president, the deaths on the border in melilla are not a tragedy, they are a massacre, they are murders provoked by fortress europe. these crimes are the fault of the moroccan government and police. but they are also responsible, and we must speak about them: first, the spanish government, which shamefully described the situation as well-settled; secondly, the criminal european migration policy of externalizing borders which subcontracts to dictatorships such as the moroccan one to act as border thugs. it is essential to promote an international and independent investigation that will clarify the criminal and political responsibilities of this killing. the spanish minister of the interior, grande-marlaska, cannot remain in office for another day. more than 40 deaths well deserved a fulminant resignation. and that is what we are asking for here in this house. europe must put an end to its racist and hypocritical immigration policies. there are no first-class and second-class refugees based on their origin or the colour of their skin. that's racism. rights for all. no human being is illegal. let's take down the fortress europe.
madam president, the recent mass slaughter of uprooted people in melilla, as well as the daily atrocities, are the result of the combination of the repressive forces of morocco, spain and the political repression of the european union with the police of frontex, the continuity of the shipwrecks with many dead, the returns to the aegean and the mediterranean, the superstructures-prisons in countries such as greece. the congratulations of the socialist sánchez to the forces of repression, speaking provocatively of invaders, reveal the alleged solidarity of the european union, the apparent progressiveness of the so-called left governments. the european group of the left, like the spanish government, the host of the remaining nato thugs, which at its meeting planned a new escalation of its imperialist plans leading to new waves of refugees, is proud to promote this. the people's anger and disgust at these crimes become organized action against the system of exploitation and wars, demanding that refugees go to their destination countries with modern rights to asylum, health, education and work with rights.
madam president! the events at the spanish/moroccan border are yet another testimony to what is happening at the union's external borders. walls are being built and human rights are being violated. respect for fundamental rights is a theme in every union document on migration. however, violence and many other violations of rights occur frequently at the union's external borders. the eu spends at least 10 billion euros a year on protection against migrants. building walls and protecting borders will not make migration disappear. instead, they force them to seek other, more dangerous routes and to embrace smugglers. the eu is actually creating a market for the smugglers it says it wants to fight. european arms companies exporting arms to countries all over the world, including countries at war, with repression and human rights violations, also supply all the technology needed to arm walls and fences, as well as protection, surveillance and patrols. it's a frontier business that politicians profit from. do we want to build a fortress europe by saying that migrants are a threat to europe's security? or a europe built on the values of solidarity and the inalienable rights of every human being ?
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we want a digital single market that has fewer trade barriers between member states, that serves to build economic prosperity. we all know the tangible benefits of developing a digital single market. consumers have access to rapidly developing new products, lower prices, a wider choice and better quality goods. the digital single market also means the development of modern business and administrative models. our work on two pieces of legislation will directly translate into the regulation of the online platforms that almost every european citizen uses today. we've made sure that people can buy things online with more confidence, and we've made sure that free speech is protected on the major social networks. i regard the compromise reached in the trilateral talks as a step forward. however, in line with our position and for the benefit of consumers benefiting from the digital economy, i believe that regulatory dialogue should be strengthened, national consumer and competition authorities strengthened and the european commission, as the supreme enforcement authority, ensured that the law is effectively enforced in all member states.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 july 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. in the late 18th century, women dared to fight for their rights and equality. we are in the 21st century, an economically and intellectually developed eu community, and yet poverty of women is a significant problem at european level. according to eurostat, 22.9% of women in the eu were at risk of poverty in 2020. women are the first victims of austerity and the economic crisis. stereotypes, differences in pay (from 5% to 20% across the eu), pensions and the lack of quality public services are among the deep-rooted and main causes of women's poverty and social exclusion. women work in feminized, low-paid sectors such as the care sector, where nearly 70% of the workforce is female. gender equality in the labour market and reconciliation of work and family life is an important instrument for the eradication of women's poverty, which benefits the whole economy and has a positive impact on gdp, employment and productivity. improving gender equality would lead to an increase in gdp per capita of the eu of 6.1 to 9.6% and an additional 10.5 million jobs. women are the future of europe, and it is therefore essential to promote structural change in governance, as we see women underrepresented in governments and parliaments. the glass ceiling problem in the business world is still a common occurrence. it's time for poverty to never have a woman's face again!
the id group informed the chair of its decision to change the composition of the parliamentary committee. this decision will be recorded in the minutes of today's meeting and will take effect on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report drawn up by mrs jadwiga wiśniewska on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the negotiations on the eu-interpol cooperation agreement (a9-0200/2022) (2022/2025(ini).
i'm closing this item of business. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 july 2022.
the next item is a brief presentation of the report by mr jan zahradil on behalf of the committee on international trade on the indo-pacific strategy for trade and investment (a9-0170/2022) (2021/2200(ini)).
i'm closing this item of business. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 july 2022.
the next item is a brief presentation of the report by geert bourgeois on behalf of the committee on international trade on the future of trade and investment cooperation between the eu and india (a9-0193/2022) (2021/2177 ((ini)).
i'm closing this item of business. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 july 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 172).
i'm closing this debate on this point of order.
this is a closed session. the hearing will be reopened on tuesday 5 july 2022 at 9.00 a.m. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the risks of harmful organisms, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
commissioner, mr president, i have to ask you to stop. the issue of care, and in particular care for the elderly, is a difficult, perhaps the most difficult and urgent social problem. the reasons for this are demographic change, ageing populations, low fertility rates and high rates of population pressure, often with a longer life expectancy but with disability and with a lack of independence. another reason is the lack of care staff low paid, often employed illegally and the diversity of health care systems, including in rehabilitation. i shall refer to the solutions in this joint resolution. in my opinion, rapid deinstitutionalization can only serve to privatize the sector and also to lack public services. this will exacerbate the shortage of staff and, contrary to appearances, may lower rather than raise the standard of care that we are aiming for. also, measuring the value of each care as an indicator is wishful and technical thinking. we also have to keep in mind national competences. we need to combine different forms of care (institutional, environmental, day care, round-the-clock care) and propose systemic solutions.
on behalf of the ecr group. - i'm not going to tell you. mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! this report is a combination of two themes that the covid-19 pandemic has brought to the forefront: accelerating digitalization and mental health. the acceleration of digitalisation is facilitated by the widespread use of teleworking and platforms. the side effects of the new reality, social exclusion, loneliness, and the difficulties of a fast-growing labour market are exacerbating mental health problems. the rapporteur has presented in a balanced way both the benefits and opportunities of the advancing digitalisation, as well as the risks and the need to maintain a proper work culture. the amendments made by my group in the ecr have struck a balance between the problems of young people, i.e. depression and problems in finding work, and the problems of older people, i.e. social exclusion and lack of the right skills and tools to function in the digital space.
in writing. as a doctor, i am pleased that the report addresses a wide range of issues concerning the health effects of isolation, both for young people entering the labour market and for experienced people who have never been in a similar situation before. i want to point out that covid-19 has made us all aware that remote work is not a reflection of performance, as has been proven by many studies. but that's just the front of the coin... on the other hand, there's mental health losses. depression, burnout, lack of motivating stimuli, or rather, a preponderance of stimuli that limit creativity, self-actualization, and the desire to work. i thank the rapporteur for highlighting the enormous impact of the pandemic on the mental health of citizens, and i would also like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that we will be dealing with these consequences not for the next few months, but for years, and perhaps even decades. the common health policy is a necessity in these circumstances! together we can do more and we must do more! i call on our house to step up its efforts to build a coherent and effective health policy at eu level that will really help our citizens - those suffering from mental illnesses, but also those with rare diseases, cancer, etc. that's what we're here for!
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has taken up the issue of mental health again, this time in the context of the digitalisation of work. the deteriorating mental health of europeans, exacerbated by the pandemic, has serious social and economic consequences. the situation of youths is particularly dire. nine million teenagers in europe suffer from mental disorders, anxiety and depression. suicide is the second leading cause of death among young people. this shows the scale of the threats to europe's future. mental health problems at work are under-reported, although one in four eu workers experience negative health impacts from work. the pandemic has made remote working more common and has helped accelerate the digitisation of work. it carries opportunities, but also serious risks. the problems are the clear boundaries between work and private life, the pressure to be online and available, the excessive monitoring of employees that infringes on their dignity and privacy, and the isolation and stress of technology. new regulations are needed to take account of mental health and to promote good practice. europe needs a comprehensive mental health strategy, covering both new osh standards and education, prevention, access to diagnosis, therapy, rehabilitation and reintegration, and the fight against discrimination and stigmatisation. the european year of good mental health 2023 can contribute to the development of tools to improve the mental health of citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen, taxonomy is needed because it shows which investments are clean and which - as the commissioner said - are dirty. and this taxonomy is needed, except that the whole process of identifying which investments are dirty, which are clean, takes a lot of time. the rejection of the delegated act will make the poor poorer. today, from this very podium, the prime minister of greece said that sometimes our irresponsible decisions can cause domestic budgets to collapse. we, the members of parliament, work for the people who elected us, and we should take into account all the speeds that affect any change, including changes that affect whether there will be heat in the house, whether there will be hot water, whether people will simply have the money to live in better conditions than those caused by the current crisis. and i want to make it very clear that rejecting the delegated act will result in no funding for gas and nuclear investments in the long run, that persisting in rejecting the delegated act is simply pointing out that people should continue to heat their homes with coal, and coal is worse than nuclear than gas. he's worse than that. you know that! china is currently building 14 nuclear power plants, india 8, russia 4. where are you taking us?!
mr. chairman, please! sometimes i drive to brussels or strasbourg. i'm driving through germany for 1,000 kilometers, and i see photovoltaic farms or wind farms on the left and right. i drive part of the way through holland and i also see wind farms all over. i heard recently that iceland, which is completely independent of gas and coal, was buying energy because it had no wind and no sun. ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? we're just talking about the fact that sometimes there are very dangerous situations, very unpredictable situations in the european union. i support and my government also supports the position of the european commission that we in the european union must be prepared for crises. these crises just happen. and to all those who want to reject the financing of gas or nuclear investments, i would like to dedicate the information on how many people in the european union do not have hot water, how many people live in unheated apartments. take that into consideration, ladies and gentlemen. if you eliminate this type of investment, poverty will reign in the european union, and that is frightening.
in writing. the supplementary delegated act introduces nuclear and gas into the taxonomy. that's good news. the taxonomy determining which activities can be considered green affects the possibilities of obtaining financing on the market. it therefore indicates which technologies are acceptable. there is no rational explanation for the exclusion of nuclear power from the taxonomy. burning natural gas emits greenhouse gases. nuclear energy, on the other hand, is a virtually zero-emission and environmentally friendly technology, just like renewable technologies. the development of nuclear energy will contribute to the energy security of the eu member states. it's the answer to the current energy crisis. it can provide enough electricity to reduce its dependence on fossil fuel imports from third countries, including in particular russia. the fact that the green deal does not include nuclear power is further proof that it is a highly ideological project. it will affect every sector of the economy, and the people will pay for it, of course. he doesn't care about energy security, energy price increases or inflation. it is also important to mention that new climate targets are being pushed for, with the eu as a whole accounting for less than 9% of global co2 emissions. nuclear energy is an opportunity to stabilize prices, and thus not only for zero-emission energy, but also for cheap and widely available energy.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i think we all agree in this house that there can be no secure, stable europe without secure and stable western balkan states. poland therefore actively supports the european aspirations of these countries and we therefore express our full support for the unity of bosnia and herzegovina. the serious political crisis that bosnia and herzegovina has been facing since autumn 2021 prevents further progress in the reform process, in particular the implementation of all 14 priorities identified by the commission as a condition for the opening of negotiations with that country. poland stresses the need to hold general elections as planned in october this year. we support the activities and the full implementation of the mandate of eufor althea. we support the decision to strengthen its presence in bosnia and herzegovina. we hope that the un resolution granting the mandate to eufor althea will be renewed before its expiry in november this year. i would like to refer here to what my predecessor said: i fully agree that there will be no stable balkans, no stable bosnia and herzegovina, if there is no mutual and full cooperation between the three nations that make up this state today.
madam chairman! after a very successful accession process for serbia in 2021, its lack of reaction to russian aggression against ukraine should be considered disappointing. there have already been arguments that serbia is the only country in the region that has not joined any of the eu sanctions against russia adopted after 24 february. and it is clear that the closer serbia is to putin, to cyril lavrov, to the murderers from buza, from mariupol, the closer serbia is to the atrocities that russian soldiers are committing today against the ukrainian civilian population, the closer it is to the european union, the less it can be a member of the european union. but we are supporting our friends in serbia, those who are closer to brussels, closer to rome, closer to belgrade, sofia or warsaw, and not politicians who are closer to putin. and it's also worth saying at this point that this kind of retrospective teaching of serbia today in the context of what germany did, france after 2014, is also rejected in serbia in the same way that it should be rejected here in this chamber.
madam president! we're through with the debate. we talked about the aspirations of countries like bosnia and herzegovina, serbia, and now kosovo. of course, there are many substantive arguments, because there is no need to pretend to bury your head in the sand that the process of kosovo's accession, which is controversial, depends on historical elements, but also on the situation in other countries, such as spain. ladies and gentlemen, we are at a defining moment in history. churchill once spoke of a soft underbelly, pointing to the balkans. if there is no clear path, no clear light for these western balkan countries to join the european union, then putin will be mixing in this balkan cauldron, the wahhabis of saudi arabia will be mixing, turkey will be mixing and we will have a problem all the time. it is the only hope of overcoming all the animosities that have arisen from the ethnic differences, the fighting, the domination of the serbs in bosnia and herzegovina. but also, let us be honest, just as we are warning about the bulgarians in kosovo, we should also be warning about the serbs in kosovo. after all, kosovo is the historical core of the former serbia. let us keep this in mind as we open the door to europe. because there's no other way. if bosnia and herzegovina doesn't join the eu, if serbia doesn't join, if north macedonia doesn't join, if kosovo doesn't join, then putin will be wiping his hands, they will be wiping their hands in beijing, they will be wiping their hands in saudi arabia.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for these remarks. this debate shows that you maintain active interest and engagement in the role of the eu within the multilateral system. and i can only agree with many things that have been said about the need to rebuild multilateralism through global partnership and the need to ensure the respect of universal rules, rights and values. we need multilateralism to be inclusive. we need multilateralism to be effective and networked to address also the urgent global challenges. and we owe this to our young people in particular who are faced with rights reversals. they see their lives getting worse, not better. and they’re rightly demanding their place at the table. this is why the eu is working now on a youth action plan to promote the participation of young people in the eu’s external action. this is also our part of the strategy too to pursue the sustainable development goals. after the adoption of the 2030 agenda, the commission, in cooperation with the external action service, has deployed a range of measures to integrate the sustainable development goals for its international partnerships and development cooperation. for instance, the 2017 european consensus on development marked a clear collective determination of the eu and the member states to reorient our policies to support partner countries to progress towards the sdgs. this was shown in the new global europe financing instrument, which includes the objective to support the implementation and mainstreams it in relation to programming and monitoring. our multi-annual indicative programmes integrate the pursuit of the sdgs and our monitoring results and report and combine the tracking of eu priorities in this respect. and finally, the new european global gateway strategy and our actions as team europe, meaning together with eu member states, will be deployed as a contribution to the implementation of the sustainable development goals.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i think that today's debate has made clear the unwavering commitment of this house to continue to fight for the multilateral method, a way of organising international relations. a few things have also become clear. one of them is what the war in ukraine means for the multilateral method; that a nuclear force invades a third country by abolishing the right of conquest as a method of conflict resolution and, above all, that it uses force - the most brutal and atrocious force - to change the logic of borders, the sovereignty of states. and so, obviously, it directly challenges a logic based on rules, institutions and dialogue such as multilateralism. but it's not the only episode. the war in syria and the inability of the international community to respond to it have also been mentioned over the past two decades. these are other unilateral actions in the world which i believe have been breaking the multilateral method, which is now in deep crisis and which therefore challenges and challenges the european union. and we should be able to rebuild it. rebuild it how, has it also been said? with our allies, especially those who share democratic values and this multilateral vision of the international method. that is why it is important that those democracies that want to claim their right to do so work hand in hand to rebuild international institutions, to make them more effective, more inclusive and results-oriented. but remembering that our alliances with democracies are not to seek divisions in the world, but to organize a multipolar world that needs multilateralism. i would like to thank everyone, the people who work in this house, the alternative rapporteurs who have contributed to this debate and to this report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 6 july 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the european union has always been the world's champion of multilateralism. we have to keep doing this in the future. in particular, the world order is becoming more volatile, more polarised, overshadowed by competing agendas and policies, and increasingly threatened by legal fragmentation and competing regulatory standards. it should also be borne in mind that democracy, human rights and the rule of law are increasingly threatened in different regions of the world and that human rights defenders and civil society activists face increasing threats and risks in their legitimate work.
the next item is the report by mrs beata kempa, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on improving food security in developing countries (2022/2208 (ini)) (a9-0195/2022).
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs and all those involved in the preparation of this report, including all those in the secretariat, the advisers, for their very fruitful cooperation and for the development of a document of great importance in our time. the report on food security in developing countries has become particularly important in recent months in the wake of russia's invasion of ukraine. we face enormous food security challenges. moreover, with the impact of the crisis in ukraine, we are faced with a scenario in which the poor and the vulnerable will again suffer the most. russia's unprovoked and unjustified war of aggression against ukraine further destabilised already volatile agricultural markets and worsened the already dire situation caused by the covid-19 pandemic, and put additional pressure on ongoing food crises and global food security, causing international food and feed prices to rise well above their previous, already high levels. the number of people in need of emergency food assistance is growing. the poorest people in the most unstable countries will not be able to cope on their own. it's just today that statistics were cited. one billion, 700 million people in 107 countries around the world could be affected by famine, which could be the result of the war in ukraine. the hunger that russia and putin are exporting to the world today. even before the war, 45 million children under the age of five were suffering from severe malnutrition. this is the data we're putting in our report. our report is designed to respond to the challenges we face. i hope that this report will help the european union to maintain its leadership in financial support to fight hunger by prioritising food security in its development and humanitarian programmes. by identifying the pathways to eradicate poverty and inequality, the report aims to help developing countries build their resilience to crises. today, conflict is the most common cause of food insecurity. it is therefore important that the report emphasises the link between humanitarian aid and development and peace-building in order to manage the impact of the crisis and mitigate its risks. the european union should implement a more coordinated approach to tackling all forms of malnutrition by integrating the humanitarian objective of saving lives in crisis situations with a long-term focus on the prevention of all forms of malnutrition. it is necessary to promote better market access and land ownership for small farmers and women, as well as to increase their access to technology and innovation, which has also been duly reflected in the report. increasing the income of small farmers and employment in rural areas is important for fighting poverty and strengthening the resilience of these communities. we must remember that eu investments and interventions should be based on a thorough, preliminary assessment in order to develop equitable actions to strengthen local capacities, including those of non-state bodies. union policy to improve food security should be tailored to local needs and take into account the diversity of food systems in the world. i would also like to point out that food waste is part of global food insecurity and malnutrition. the european union should step up its efforts to reduce food loss and waste. malnutrition in our time is an unacceptable disgrace. the european union has the means and the capacity to meet the challenges of today... (the president cut off the speaker)
ms herzberger, i want to tell you that your group did not request speaking time for you – not one minute, not two minutes – and now you have the catch—the—eye. we have one minute for catch—the—eye, and you spoke for far more than one minute, so you cannot complain that i cut off your microphone. sorry for that. the official request from your group does not contain your name, so you have to blame your group or complain to your group, but we did not receive any request. i explained it to you. you got the floor on the catch—the—eye and you spoke for one minute thirty, which is not in line with the rules. (end of catch—the—eye procedure)
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this extremely important debate. this crisis requires strong coordination. coordination will be needed between the commission services, the member states, the eu institutions and, obviously, including the european parliament, with the involvement of a number of committees, including agri, deve, inta, afet, among others. we will strive to provide you with periodic updates about the crisis and about our response. but i would like to assure you that we are committed to continue to work in unison with our member states in a team europe spirit across all the various dimensions of this food crisis. and we are committed to coordinate our work with our global partners in the context of the united nations, the g7, the g20 and, of course, with our developing partners, in particular those in africa. in short, we shall spare no effort to prevent the world sliding into a food crisis not seen in many decades.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. - i 'm not going to lie . ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to thank very warmly all the speakers, all the rapporteurs, all those who have spoken today and, above all, all those who have made valuable comments and conclusions in our debate. commissioner, thank you for the information on the statistics, but above all that work is under way on alternative routes for grain and the unblocking of ports. you are not dividing, you are focusing on what is important in this report, which is multilateral action. there was also a good note on the organisation of the summit on food security, support for food sovereignty, strengthening resilience, the right to food as a human right. this is really the foundation that we should be looking at. finally, the issue of curbing speculation and access to water. i would very much like our vote tomorrow to be a clear signal to putin that he will not export hunger to the whole world, so that we can give this a voice in the european parliament. i would like to thank you all once again for your hard work, and first of all i would like to thank the deve committee, the agri committee, all my colleagues, all the advisers and the speakers today for making us see beyond the divisions a very serious problem which we will probably have to deal with here in a very professional way. because this is a problem that will have to be discussed for a long time.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 6 july 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i am pleased that the report on food security in developing countries recognises food security, alongside access to water, as one of the fundamental aspects of development. there's no access to food if we don't provide access to water. to end poverty, we need to start by addressing the hierarchy of needs, such as access to water, food, which affects health, education, job creation. all of these aspects are interrelated. it's hard to focus on education when children are starving in schools. on the other hand, many children in developing countries have lost their only hot meal of the day due to school closures and restrictions during the covid-19 pandemic. with our help, we should be able to restore the school feeding programs. the pandemic has doubled the number of people suffering from severe hunger. this aspect is well emphasised in the report. in addition, the war in ukraine has disrupted the supply chain of grain not only to europe but also to african countries. rising energy prices, disruptions in the gas market are also reflected in the constantly rising prices of basic products. in the coming months, we expect the number of undernourished and hungry people in the world to increase. overcoming hunger requires more than just having enough food to survive. food has to be healthy.
madam president, prime minister, please! what vaclav havel said about europe as a task is still relevant today. for the next six months, this is going to be a very difficult task. in the interest of unity and our common values, we must not only combat the russian threat, but also focus on rebuilding our economies, building the union's strategic autonomy, ensuring financial stability and becoming independent from russian energy. it will also be your task, dear neighbours, to accelerate the discussion on the potential revision of the macro-financial rules. can such difficult tasks be accomplished at eu level when member states also have to deal with their own internal problems? we are familiar with the words of the famous singer eva farna in poland and the czech republic: "we have thousands of our own affairs, but in our eyes there is fear". the czech priorities in the council respond to all these challenges. know that in this institution you will find friends who will support you in facing them. europe is a task to be done.
madam president, prime minister! europe as a mission. how important this task is, how difficult this task is! and this debate seems to be making us all aware of that, too. as the representative of poland, i would like to thank you very warmly for your calm and your voice of reason and for referring to our experience, the experience of the countries of central and eastern europe, in the sense of russia. but how this calm contrasts with the kind of cabotine waving, the kind of tearing that mr verhofstadt just showed, for example, in his attempt to so resonantly instruct the prime minister. how does this contrast with the speeches of those of you who get their knowledge about poland or hungary from russia today or sputnik. speaking from the european parliament's speaker's chair about poland embezzling billions of euros is as much about reality as the fact that putin is a democrat. people, come to your senses. listen to the voice of reason of those countries that know much better what russia smells like. and while prime minister petr fiala was on his way to kiev, your leaders - president macron, chancellor scholz - were on the phone, trying to avoid and pardon putin.
in writing. mr. prime minister, i would like to welcome you to our house of parliament. less than 10 days ago, the czech republic took over the presidency of the council of the european union, and today we invite you to listen to the presidency's programme. you were the first european representatives in the war-torn city of kiev, along with representatives from poland and slovenia. i hope that, as you did on your visit, you will have the courage and motivation to act. europe is in a historic place. on the one hand, we have the results of our collective work and efforts. we are facing the specter of a baseless, bloody war unleashed in the name of the sick ambitions of the russian president and historical imperialism, and it could divide us forever. you have a difficult task ahead of you, but as the european community we wish to express our willingness and readiness to help. i wish you much success in the coming time and i repeat once again, do not be afraid to act.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the future of europe and the future of the european union is being decided right now across our eastern border in ukraine. and there is no doubt that the european council's decision to grant ukraine eu candidate status is one of the most important decisions the european council has taken in recent times. and i'm glad that it did. we hope that this process will proceed quickly and that ukraine will continue to have the support of the european union, because that is what both the union and ukraine need. we also hope that this opportunity will be given very soon to the other countries that are applying to join the european union, in particular the countries of the western balkans. and the second point i want to make, and it's also been discussed here, is that it seems that the most important thing for europeans right now, from our perspective, outside of security, outside of the war in ukraine, is the energy crisis, which could affect all european families, which is associated with high energy prices, with the lack of energy sources, with high inflation. and perhaps, mr president, it would be worthwhile for the european council to meet in the near future, even in an emergency, and to address these two issues which are important to europeans.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, global food security is at stake, and the war in ukraine has brought another thorny issue to the table: the transport of grain. at the same time, we must ensure that the cereals are transported to their final destinations. their unchecked presence within the european union is likely to put pressure on european farmers who are already selling their produce far below cost. romania understands the importance of the transit of cereals and is making major efforts in this regard. it has increased transit capacity, simplified procedures, created special colour and opened new border points. but these efforts must be made together, with the help of other countries and with direct support from the european commission. more rail cars, trucks, and of course, boats are needed. commissioner, i've asked for all these things, but so far i've got nothing. in other words, it requires action, not empty talk or sterile empathy. global problems require global action, and tackling global hunger must be our major goal in the future.
madam president, as everyone has repeated, most of us have a moral and ethical obligation to ensure food security throughout the world, not just in europe. but we are seeing that this war in ukraine is bringing many problems, especially for those productions to arrive. the change in transport routes, especially the blockade of ports, is obviously preventing this large production from arriving. so welcome to the solidarity runners. let's see how well these solidarity corridors work. we have already seen a good result in june, when there was an increase of 25% in the outflow of ukrainian products, but this is not enough, because they cannot stay in europe, they cannot stay in poland, in romania, they have to go outside. we need to get those products to africa and to those countries so that they don't suffer from that great famine that everyone is telling us about. but we have to improve too. polish and romanian customs are bringing an eight-day logistics delay on the shipment. so let us put an end to this situation and above all let us also protect and help european farmers.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, the russian invasion of ukraine has crossed all human boundaries. russia is deliberately using hunger as a weapon in its efforts to impede ukraine's agricultural production and also its grain exports. the serious situation in ukraine is reflected in the food insecurity of the whole world. the harvest in ukraine is coming, but the stores are already full. the black sea is in a deadlock. turkish president erdoğan has taken on the role of a strong mediator in the food export conflict between russia and ukraine. we must not allow turkey or russia to dictate the terms of our grain exports. the eu must act to ensure that the transport of grain by sea is restarted without compromising the security of ports and the defence capability of the ukrainian people. the solidarity corridors are a good start, but more decisive action is needed. i ask the commissioner: how does the commission intend to ensure the continuity of cereal exports and thus respond to the world food security with european action?
i have to say, madam president, putin can use grain as a weapon, wheat for example: ukraine 18 million tons per year, russia 35 million tons per year. that means putin can control 28% of world trade. he can change strategy every day, he can disrupt the commodity exchanges, he can create hunger in north africa, he can organize a new flow of refugees to europe. that is why it is right that we create a solidarity corridor that also works. but we also need another appetite suppressant for putin. this means that the european union must produce more wheat and export it to north africa. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. that is why i ask the commission: let us make putin's weapon ineffective, let us produce more cereals in the european union, let us suspend the set-aside obligation for agricultural land for the year 2023!
madam president, in fact the russian invasion of ukraine has created enormous pressure on global food security, already quite fragile in itself, as we know, since the covid-19 period, and therefore we are talking about a worrying increase in the number of people in the world in imminent hunger. and if we think that more than 36, about 40 nations around the world imported more than 50% of their grain from countries like ukraine and russia, we can see the scale of the catastrophe that we can imagine. and so, in this context, it is important that we study and speed up the alternatives on the ground to the blockade of ukrainian ports - and i welcome the efforts that the commission has made to open up the operation of solidarity corridors, which facilitate the transport of grain and goods - but i warn that the reports are very worrying, including the lack of knowledge about the operation of these solidarity corridors, and in parallel, finally, it is important to monitor the operation of these corridors and other routes to ensure that there is no destabilisation of the functioning of the markets of the countries of passage.
madam president, one of the consequences of the invasion of ukraine is the effect it is having on the world's food security. this republic is a world power in the production of cereals, and its export in the difficult conditions created by the russian aggression is very complex. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. we have solved this week the problem of permits for ukrainian transport professionals. it is also advisable to review all investments in transeuropean networks which are aimed at improving the infrastructures through which this connection is made. finally, we are committed to establishing special corridors, such as those that were opened during the pandemic for the circulation of sanitary material, to facilitate the movement of these critical goods. we hope that the solidarity corridors announced by the commissioner can be implemented as soon as possible, because we cannot wait any longer.
madam president! i listen to this debate very carefully and it certainly touches on one of the most important problems we can face, namely the food crisis. and i am a little surprised at the lack of interest among members, and that is one of the reasons why we are interested in solving this problem. and i would appeal to my colleagues in the house to give more time to this problem and to be aware that a lot depends on us.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i was taught as a child that one injustice cannot be remedied by another, that solidarity must be done in such a way as not to create other serious things. and yes, i speak from the perspective of my country, romania. we were very open to helping the refugees. now we are very open to helping with the transport of grain, but we have problems with the quality of infrastructure, the quantity of transport, we have problems even with human resources. romania should not be left alone just because it is at the border and then accused of not facilitating the transport of cereals. and yes, the second problem is related to national farmers, farmers in my country, who have already raised the issue that there is no rigorous control of the grain that crosses to be exported to third countries and the grain that remains inside our country, inside romania, or even inside the internal market. that is why i think, commissioner, that concrete measures are needed. everyone said to fix it, but what are the solutions? the solutions are very clear from my point of view, budgets and administrative support to be able to have special color crossing, but also control of what enters and leaves ukraine.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this very interesting debate. the commission very much welcomes parliament’s strong support for ukraine and the ‘solidarity lanes’. the eu-ukraine solidarity lanes are not only an expression of eu solidarity, they also aim at salvaging a crucial sector of the ukrainian economy and generally improving the country’s resilience. solidarity lanes and the medium and long-term actions outlined in the action plan also aim at anchoring ukraine closer to the eu, integrating it in the trans—european transport network and facilitating its integration into world markets. the solidarity lanes are also a key contribution to the eu’s direct response to the consequences of russia’s invasion of ukraine on global food security and, de facto, russia’s disinformation campaign on this subject. the eu is fully taking on its responsibility towards ukraine and towards the rest of the world. you know that we do have significant grain production also here in europe. eu production for cereals is forecasted at 286.4 million tonnes and this will ensure adequate supply for domestic consumption and also substantial exports. also, eu exports of wheat are around 38 million tonnes, which is a positive contribution to global food security. the grain which we will manage to transport out from ukraine via alternative routes we will transport to eu ports for export. however, there is still potential for better coordination with ukraine and member states authorities to ensure a better governance of the logistic chain from ukraine silos to eu ports and maximisation of the use of all infrastructure capacities. we know that there are strong margins for improvement there, and the same for the transport mode, so we need to maximise the use of all the capacities by rail, road and inland waterways. the commission is working on that. the recent trend shows a constant increase – 2.5 million tonnes exported in june. the commission is in constant contact with the eu member states and especially the frontline member states. in our common efforts with the frontline member states, we managed to reduce the red tape on the borders in romania and poland and we are looking into short-term solutions and investments in the member states to manage the situation. last but not least, on the question you raised on tracking the stolen grain, we follow this issue closely through the g7 group. ukraine provides updated reports and countries are taking all the necessary steps to trace and stop this trafficking. to conclude, i have taken note of your comments and i will pass them to commissioner vălean.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioner simson, honourable members, while the russian war of aggression in ukraine continues, we will continue to work with our international partners to prevent further escalation of the food security crisis and to alleviate the immediate humanitarian needs. we will continue to support ongoing un—led efforts to find a solution for reopening the ukrainian ports. in parallel, we will pursue our action to facilitate transport of ukrainian grain overland through the solidarity lanes and continue our efforts to remove all obstacles that remain. we also need to be firm in fighting disinformation by russia. by blaming the eu sanctions, russia tries to divert responsibility for the global food crisis. it has to be repeated again and again: it is not due to the european union’s sanctions; the food crisis has been inflicted by russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. the real problem is not eu sanctions, but the disruptive impact that the russian aggression has on global commodities markets, resulting in record—high prices for energy and grain, unstable trade connections and increased speculation on staple foods. we will continue to mobilise all available eu instruments to help the most vulnerable countries, and we will use all options to keep prices under control. beyond this food crisis and the immediate humanitarian needs, decisive action is needed to address the root causes of hunger, malnutrition and food insecurity in the world. we will step up our efforts to help vulnerable countries in making their food systems more resilient and reducing their import dependency.
i'm closing the debate. this court is adjourned. it will resume at 3 p.m. and will begin with a debate on the current theme of the three seas initiative challenges and opportunities. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. ukraine is one of the world's largest grain exporters. due to the russian military activities in ukraine, the export of grain in normal volumes is practically impossible today. russia has occupied several important port cities on the black and azov seas. grain exports from the port of odessa are threatened by russian attack. he has also been responsible for the illegal 'seizure' of the ukrainian ports in the southeast of the country. exports of ukrainian cereals and other agricultural products through ports have traditionally accounted for 80% of the total volume. the rest have been transported out, mainly by rail, across the western border. it is clear that it is not possible to replace all the exported capacity by rail or road transport. eu countries bordering ukraine have different track gauges, which create logistical bottlenecks at the borders. both rail and road transport are much more expensive and add significantly to the price of the crop. another very important aspect is that ukrainian grain must reach the intended end consumer and not enter the market of neighbouring eu countries. it is understandable that farmers in these countries are concerned that cheap ukrainian grain may have a negative impact on their production. the european union faces the difficult task of finding, in cooperation with ukraine, the best possible solutions for exporting ukrainian grain and creating viable transport solutions and corridors to ensure that the grain reaches the markets it was intended to reach. in addition, efforts must continue to identify and confiscate the consignments of grain stolen by russia so that they also reach the correct destinations.
the minutes of yesterday's meeting and the texts adopted are now available. does anyone have any comments? i can't see. the protocol has been accepted.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the topical and urgent subjects of the european parliament (rule 162) on the three seas initiative challenges and opportunities (2022/2750 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. ladies and gentlemen! first of all, the three seas initiative: i would like to introduce it to you, to give you an overview, because i believe that it is of great importance, above all, for europe. the three seas initiative was established as a cooperation forum of 12 countries: austria, bulgaria, croatia, the czech republic, estonia, lithuania, latvia, poland, romania, slovakia, slovenia and hungary. the area of the three seas initiative countries together covers one third of the european union's total area and is home to 112 million citizens. the main objective of the three seas is to exploit the economic potential of this part of europe by creating better internal infrastructural, digital, energy, road, rail, river port, bridge and, of course, high-speed fibre links. the three seas countries account for almost 20% of the eu's gdp and have an average economic growth rate better than the eu average. for example, between 2015 and 2019, the average gdp growth in the three seas was 3,5%. the average gdp growth for the union as a whole over the same period was 1,6%, which shows the potential of the project. that's why the three seas fund was created, worth one billion euros, and its support of about three hundred million dollars was confirmed by america. in addition, seven countries in the tri-sea region have already created a common stock index with the largest companies in these countries. the three seas initiative is fully compatible with the european union. all the countries that make up the initiative are also members of the union and are actively involved in its development. the three seas initiative is also an opportunity to correct the mistakes, first of all, the historical mistakes, that is, the fact that after the second world war the allied countries were given to russia, which made them poorer, with less infrastructure and too often overlooked. it is therefore possible to rebuild them quickly today, correcting these mistakes for the benefit of the european union as a whole. but more importantly, it's a chance to fix the energy failures. namely, the european union's energy model, germany, based on russian gas and fighting against coal, has just spectacularly collapsed. the threat of a power shortage for the winter and the great inflation are the best proof of this. therefore, the three seas project is the creation of a network of gas pipelines that could transport raw materials on the north-south axis, the construction of lng terminals, the construction and expansion of gas interconnectors, the increase in the capacity of the lng terminal in świnoujście for gas supplies and the key baltic pipe project, which is already being completed all of which is to end the possibility of russian blackmail of europe and to build energy independence and sovereignty on the old continent. moreover, russia's aggression in ukraine has shown how visionary the project of building energy independence, effectively securing industrial infrastructure and deepening mutual transport links between the countries of the three seas was - these are guarantees of europe's security and prosperity. russia has also targeted ukraine's critical infrastructure, with damage estimated in the hundreds of billions of euros. when the russian aggressor is finally defeated - i believe that and i would like it to happen - ukraine will face the arduous task of rebuilding its roads, railways, hospitals, educational institutions, telecommunications services, energy infrastructure and crop fields, to name just a few. in short, a development package in the style of the marshall plan will be necessary to help the people of ukraine who are fighting for a peaceful future for europe. europe's energy security will also depend on ukraine's ability to rebuild. in summary, the three seas is a visionary project to build a stronger europe with equal access to infrastructure and goods, without unfair divisions between the old and the new europe. it's a project that will make europe independent of russia and take away its ability to blackmail. it is based on economic cooperation without ideology, on everything that once built europe's strength. that's why the european union should be involved in the three seas fund, because the war is outside the european union, not the united states, and yet they have decided to invest their money in the fund. it is time for the european union to decide. if we want a strong and secure europe, we must ensure equality, not just between the sexes, but also in road, rail, digital and energy infrastructure. this is where our future is decided, in this part of europe that is the repository of good in the fight against evil.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, the three seas initiative offers a unique opportunity for rapid development in the countries of central and eastern europe. many infrastructure projects, improving digital connectivity and, of course, energy projects are the three pillars of economic development that the countries participating in this initiative should focus on. it includes many important things, some of them important for bulgaria and europe: infrastructure projects like the tunnels under the petrohan pass or the tunnel number 8. of course, this initiative is an opportunity for economic development in the peripheral countries. why do you have to do this? and not just because of the russian invasion of ukraine. it's a legitimate cause, of course, and it should be condemned, and we all condemn it as it should be. but in the european union, there is a clear double standard and a division between the centre and the periphery. countries like bulgaria, romania, croatia are not allowed into the schengen area, and that's what's preventing our economies from developing, that's what's preventing our power, our transportation. so, to overcome the hypocrisy of some of the elites of western european countries who want to be more equal among equals, and who want to be better than themselves, and the rest of them to be a little bit of a service staff, we have to work together in the periphery or in central and eastern europe, and there's nothing wrong with that. the connection between bulgaria, romania, croatia, hungary and ukraine will be useful, it will help all our countries to overcome the gaps in their infrastructures and make them competitive, and it will strike a light slap at the duplicity and hypocrisy of those who want to be more equal and tell us what to do.
madam president, minister, commissioner, the three seas initiative is a great example of cross—border cooperation in the areas of transport, energy and digital infrastructure to achieve interconnections. it is now extremely timely and important for europe to invest in modern and mass connections that combine digitalisation, clean energy and transport. we know that this is crucial for both an efficient single market as well as the international competitiveness of the union. like it was said here already by my colleagues, the russian attack on ukraine has highlighted the importance of connectivity and infrastructure for the security of supply and public security. eu funding should be directed more towards the building and maintenance of cross—border infrastructure in the european union. therefore, i am regretting that the connecting europe facility funding did not receive more funding from the member states. in particular, i want to mention the military mobility part, because the war in ukraine highlights how military troops and equipment should be able to move more efficiently across the eu. this, in turn, requires more investments for infrastructure from the european union.
madam president! i would like to appeal to you, the members from kaczyński and ziobra, from this place: stop tearing down the european community. get to work, not be foaming at the mouth and building an alternate reality. instead of building a community of 450 million europeans, you're dealing in nonsense. you were supposed to be budapest in warsaw, but orban played you like children in the mist. it was supposed to be turkey. there's a turkish grocery store in poland. you're all mixed up. generations of polish citizens have wanted to be in the european union, and you cynically try to shout it every day. poland's membership of the union is a polish and european state ration. those who think otherwise are either putin's allies or complete fools. because it's july of 2022, not september of 1939. berlin is our ally, not our enemy. and ukrainians are dying for the union and for the european values that you've been mocking for seven years. you were elected to the european parliament, not the sejm of the three seas. the european union needs a strong poland, not a poland from sea to sea.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. there is no more important strategic initiative for europe at the moment than strengthening the potential of the countries of the three seas. these are the countries that provide the logistical and military backbone for the belligerent ukraine. meanwhile, the european commission is behaving like an offended five-year-old towards the region's largest country. one day, president von der leyen comes to warsaw and says that poland will receive the money. a few days later, another commissioner, commissioner jurova, announces that we have zero euros for poland because we don't like this and that. that is why i ask when will the european commission reach the emotional and political maturity to finally stand up for the whole of europe? today, to talk seriously about real aid for central and eastern europe, you have to go to london or washington. if nothing changes, soon you will hear from us, the poles, only the words of the march of the first brigade of the legions of j. piłsudski: "we do not want your recognition today, nor your words, nor your tears. the days of beating your heads, beating your hearts are over. but i'm counting on the support of commissioner kadri simson.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the three seas initiative was established as a cooperation forum for 12 countries: austria, bulgaria, croatia, the czech republic, estonia, lithuania, latvia, poland, romania, slovakia, slovenia and hungary. the area of the three seas initiative countries accounts for almost one third of the total area of the european union, which has a combined population of 112 million citizens. poland sees the three seas initiative (3si) as the most representative formula for further deepening the integration of the eastern european union member states and strengthening transatlantic ties. it should be stressed that decades of neglect in developing the infrastructure linking the western and eastern parts of the european continent have largely been compensated. what is still missing, however, are connections between the countries of the central and southern european region. the brutal aggression of russia against ukraine has highlighted the fundamental importance of the assumptions that underpinned the creation of 3si. building energy independence, securing industrial infrastructure effectively and deepening mutual transport links between the 3si countries are the guarantors of security and prosperity in our part of europe. in the three seas region, we have consistently implemented and continue to implement projects aimed at diversifying supply and energy integration. the commissioning of the baltic pipe gas pipeline (planned for october 2022), the expansion of interconnectors between poland and neighbouring countries and the increase in the capacity of the lng terminal in świnoujście for gas supply are fully in line with the concept of diversification and energy independence in the eu.
in writing. with russia's aggressive expansionist strategy, the three seas (3s) region has become a frontline for cyber and hybrid threats, and its importance for the resilience of the entire eu and nato is and will remain crucial. therefore, the 3s initiative should be given a new impetus to safety-oriented cooperation. in addition, with the unprecedented digital and technological transformation, 3s countries need to become resilient and 'ready for the challenges of the future', which is why the 3s initiative needs to deepen cooperation to build the region's 'cyber strength'. cyberpower should be understood not only as an effective cybersecurity approach but also as a digital and technological innovation approach. the enhanced cooperation should cover infrastructure investments in each of the three pillars digital, energy and transport, with cybersecurity being an essential element and a key dimension of the cooperation. implement joint cross-border infrastructure projects, including digital highways (e.g. 3 seas digital highway), joint data cloud projects that complement and integrate regional transport and energy infrastructure (including data centres), and develop a mature data-driven economy and industry 4.0. building an innovation ecosystem to strengthen the technological capabilities of 3s countries, including in disruptive technologies (ai, quantum, cyber), including their application for security and defence, and to strive to improve the region's position in the digital value chain, stimulate the potential of the digital space and build digital resilience.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! in short, the european investment bank's performance in 2021 is to be commended. once again, the eib has shown that it is the european union's indispensable financial arm, able to support our economies effectively even in times of crisis. my country, poland, values its relationship with the european investment bank very much. in 2019, we increased our share of subscribed capital to 11.4, becoming the seventh largest country in terms of shares. in 2021, the bank committed a record eur 6,3 billion in poland and foresees similar amounts for the current year, which will include loans to the public sector as well as to the private sector and local governments. two points are worth noting. first, the commitment to combat the effects of the covid-19 pandemic, where 50% of the contributions in these projects were already paid in the first half of the year, which strongly supported the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises. second, the eib's commitment to assist ukraine, primarily through support to member states hosting war refugees. the eib's financial commitment to the investeu programme, which helps to close the investment gap in the european union, should also be highlighted. the bank approved operations of eur 500 billion by june 2020. it is important that the eib, in fulfilling its statutory task of cohesion policy, takes a tailor-made approach that also allows these countries to level the playing field.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! russia's foreign policy is becoming increasingly assertive in regions that the kremlin largely neglected in the post-cold war years. i am thinking here primarily of the middle east, africa, north-east asia and latin america. but europe is a different story. she's always been too important to the kremlin to ignore. it is a historic reference point for moscow's great-power ambitions, an important market for russian hydrocarbons, and a place where russian elites can locate their families and their wealth. but europe is also a persistent and growing source of russian insecurity. the risk of the north atlantic treaty organization and the european union moving deeper into the post-soviet space has long been perceived by moscow's elites as a growing threat to that very sense of security. this is a kind of geopolitical obsession of the kremlin. and that's what led to the actions that are now the barbaric actions of putin's thugs in ukraine. and here's a voice for one of my speakers. don't look for nazis on the ukrainian side, because this is precisely putin's disinformation, but useful idiots - this is a saying of lenin: полезный идиот, useful idiot - have never been lacking in europe. and they're trying to do this math here: extreme right, extreme left. there's no shortage of useful idiots in this place today, and the best example of this is the misinformation that's been directed at my country. the issue of hybrid warfare on the polish-belarusian border. we've heard a lot of nonsense about the polish government. putin has plenty of useful idiots in this place today, too.
madam president! the title of the debate 'relations between russia and european extremist, populist, anti-european parties' is deliberately manipulated. first of all, the european union and europe are not the same thing, so what are these anti-european parties? i don't think it's about islamic parties promoting values and customs that are in opposition to traditional european values. what if i do? secondly, it is to give the impression that only right-wing parties have friendly relations with russia. what about the social liberal and pro-union party of french president manuel macron? what about the social democratic party of german chancellor olaf schulz? putin's best friends who dream of getting back in business with russia? the real problem facing the war is president macron's constant phone calls to moscow and germany's ambiguous stance on russia's aggression against ukraine. it convinces putin that he can end the war on his own terms. the german and french governments could have hastened the end of the war, but they prefer to block the supply of heavy weapons to ukraine in the interests of russia. only the strong position of the us and nato gives ukraine hope of victory.
madam president, i am shocked that after the war crimes in bucha, after the bombing of the trading centre in kremenchuk, after the mining of ukrainian ports, which makes it impossible to export the grain, there are still some pro—putin sentiments in this house. colleagues from the left say that’s a false accusation. i hope you remember how the russian judge justified the launch of this invasion – that the people of donbas need to be ‘protected from gay parades’. i hope colleagues from the right now see what kind of defender of traditional sovereignty vladimir putin is – he has invaded another sovereign country – and what kind of a defender of tradition he is as a former colonel in the kgb! it is not okay to appear on russian propaganda outlets. it is not okay to mouth russian propaganda. it is not okay to accept donations from russian outlets. now that vladimir putin has declared war on western civilisation, it is treason. it is treason to the people of ukraine, it is treason to europe and it’s a treason to this house. i hope the people who engage in it will be defeated, will be punished for it by the electors. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue—card speech)
blue-card response. – i wasn’t referring to the honourable lady. i am prepared to accept that you regard putin as a capitalist pig. but the real standard for me of your attitude is: do you or do you not support the right of the people of ukraine to defend themselves and do you support giving them the means to defend themselves? that is the question.
madam president! troll farms on the internet, the public media completely subordinated to the government, the regional media taken over by the oil company, the surveillance of the opposition by the pegasus software, the false propaganda of the economic miracle and the description of the european union as the rotten west. denying european values and the separation of powers. is this just the nature of putin's russia? no, i'm not going. it's very similar in poland to pis, as it is in hungary to orban. moreover, the americans informed the polish prime minister about the russian attack on ukraine back in november. what did he do? he's called a pro-putin coalition to warsaw, the same orban who's now blocking sanctions on russia and the same marine le pen that putin funded. and that is why we must restore the rule of law, the separation of powers and free media in poland and hungary. because poland is not just pis. you all saw it when we opened our borders, our hearts and our wallets to refugees from ukraine. but the best defense against the kremlin is to build a more integrated european union and a more aware civil society. this is what all autocracies fear: putin, orban and jaroslaw kaczynski.
on behalf of the ecr group. (starting from the microphone) ...africa, the caribbean and the pacific. the european union must change the dynamic of its relations with these countries and go beyond traditional development cooperation to a partnership based on equality. however, i am concerned that some provisions, especially those relating to migration, may have negative consequences for europe. the continent is currently facing a migration crisis and cannot afford to tolerate illegal migration from third countries any longer. and we also have to note that we have a war in ukraine, which will also trigger migration movements. furthermore, the draft post-cotonou agreement is incompatible with the treaty on european union, the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights in so far as it replaces the principle of equality between women and men, which is self-evident, as expressed in those treaties, by the use of the extra-treaty term 'gender equality'. instead of imposing this ideology on the african, caribbean and pacific countries, we should focus on working with this region, which has huge development potential, including in the agri-food sector, infrastructure and health.
mr. chairman, please! the renewed cotonou agreement is a pillar of the partnership between the european union, the member states of the european union and the acp states. its aim is to eradicate poverty, guarantee the rule of law, promote the sustainable economic and social development of the partner countries and the gradual integration of their economies into the world economy. the global situation and new global challenges such as the migration crisis and climate change have meant that the basic assumptions of the partnership have had to be redefined, which does not mean that we should abandon the migration pact and legal migration and the green deal, which will allow us to live in a safer world.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the need to protect forests and biodiversity is a fact, and even a civilized duty. but to do that, you have to make good rules. unfortunately, the document we are discussing has escaped legislative scrutiny despite the very good intentions of each rapporteur and co-rapporteur. there's a lot of work to be done here. you see, everyone was adding their own goods, the amount of goods that are in the regulation increased, without any analysis, especially financial, and social responsibility. then the subject changed, the definitions changed. in addition, bureaucratic ideas actually make it impossible to apply this provision without annoying europeans who want the absolute best. the vague inclusion of banks to assess whether a product can be financed only adds to these irregularities.
in writing. – the proposal of this directive has very ambitious goals. in my opinion, in many areas, it is too ambitious. i would like the directives we adopt to present realistic goals that would benefit european citizens and our partners. what i noticed in the position of parliament to the regulation in question is that it proposes the extension of the scope of the draft to many other product groups, i.e. pigs, sheep, geese and other poultry, palm oil-based products, grain and rubber. this will largely increase the administrative and financial burdens of the proposal without bringing any significant increase in its effectiveness, as these additional groups do not affect the process of deforestation and degradation of forests. the commission proposed the following products to be covered by the regulation: palm oil, soya, wood, beef (cattle), cocoa and coffee, which in my opinion is already a very ambitious target. i also strongly believe that since this regulation considerably affects developing countries, like indonesia or malaysia, they should also be involved in the process and properly consulted, especially, as we all have the same goal – to stop deforestation and degradation of the world’s forests.
in writing. the deforestation regulation rightly points to agriculture and its expansion. the livestock sector is a significant and hidden cause of deforestation. it is because of this sector that between 1985 and 2020, the brazilian amazon lost 82 million hectares of natural vegetation, and the area of agricultural land for the livestock business increased to over 81 million hectares! to produce enough feed for livestock, an area equal to the combined area of belgium and austria would have to be used. and yet 70% of europe's arable land and grasslands are already used for animal husbandry. in addition, according to greenpeace, 87% of eu soybean imports are destined for feed for livestock. the global north is exploiting poorer parts of the world, which are also more vulnerable to climate change than the north. the union also contributes to the violation of human rights of those forced to defend land rights by exporting soybeans for feed. therefore, the livestock sector must be reduced and eventually a plant-based food system must be established. a plant-based, green and equitable food system transformation is necessary to reduce the impact of the food system on climate, the planet, people and animals. it would also strengthen the security of the european food production system, which had proved to be vulnerable during the war.
mr president, mr commissioner, the european union boasts the highest standard of protection in the world for the privacy and confidentiality of personal communications. and we overlook, when necessary, even our differences with strategic partners like the united states, because we are proud of that standard of protection. and, furthermore, all member states are bound by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which clearly states that the fundamental rights of privacy and personal communications can only be infringed on grounds of necessity, proportionality and in a manner regulated by law. and is it possible to believe that our colleague androulakis or investigative journalist kukakis in greece have posed any threat to state security that would justify a snooping on their personal communications? it can't be. there is a committee of inquiry here whose duty it is to draw the conclusions of our work with a legal system which protects europeans, which provides for judicial remedies against absolutely intolerable abuses and which, where appropriate, prohibits such intolerable spying as we are revealing through the sequences of data, at this irrefutable stage, which we have been discussing in this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing today is european and global. let's talk honestly about this. the lawful monitoring of the telephone of my colleague, mr androulakis, was carried out by the secret services of greece, and the prime minister, mr mitsotakis, when informed of this, reacted immediately. he ordered a full investigation by the house judiciary and investigative committee and made it clear that the seizure had nothing to do with illegal software like predator. it immediately accepted resignations from the relevant persons and took a legislative initiative to improve the control of legitimate grounds for withdrawal of confidentiality, with a view to safeguarding the rights of citizens. greece is the cradle of democracy with a rule of law and a liberal democratic government. that's the truth. malware is a disease that violates fundamental rights and requires immediate and serious action. it's the responsibility of all of us.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the illegal surveillance and harassment of independent judges are symptoms of the same disease, the disease of lawlessness, the disease caused by the virus of populism that has infected various countries. first he poisoned hungary, then poland. it even hit the united states. this virus doesn't choose. it attacks in different places, and its effects are devastating to the whole organism of a democratic state. the key is resilience, the resilience of the rule of law. in hungary, a patient died, in the united states, he was saved. the question is, where is greece heading today? will he deal with the civil rights violations? will he explain the illegal surveillance? what 's the matter , greece ? poles, greeks, hungarians are citizens of the union and as such have specific rights, including the right to respect for private life. and our role as members of the european parliament is to intervene when citizens' rights are being violated. people like ziobra or kamiński and their counterparts in other countries must be deprived of dangerous toys to spy on innocent citizens. (the speaker agreed to answer two questions by raising the blue card)
blue-card speech. – the striking thing to me is the way how our colleagues from the ruling greek party, from the epp, argue and how similar it is to the arguments of the polish ruling party, from the ecr, when such things occur, namely that we act against the country. i wanted to ask if you are stricken by it: that we act against greece, that we want to destabilise greece – exactly the same arguments as i hear from perpetrators, from those who are using the bugging system and breaking the law in poland. i wanted to ask you if it also strikes you or only me?
blue-card reply. – it’s not that it strikes me, it is always about protecting the european values here in the chamber, also in the whole european union. and when the propaganda in poland is saying that they are attacking poland or hungary, it is not true. we are always protecting here in the european parliament the european values. that’s our role here in the european parliament.
blue-card speech. – dear colleague, i would like to ask you, because the government says that it was following mr androulakis because of a national security issue, whether you could also agree to launch an appeal to the greek government to disclose to us what kind of security national security issue it was. i talked with mr androulakis as a deputy, and a lot of people here were talking with him. so they were also being followed, indirectly, by greek national security. so we have to ask: is he a spy, or what? is he a criminal or what?
response to an emergency signalled by the raising of a blue card. this time i will answer in my native polish. the point is, we have to check in every country that the authorities are not abusing the tools that are at their disposal. and this example we have in poland, we have in hungary, we have in other countries where pegasus or predator are used. and in this case, we also want to see what the situation is in greece. that's why there's all this discussion and debate. we cannot allow our citizens to be unnecessarily surveilled.
in writing. this is not the first and certainly not the last debate in this room about illegal spying. it is clear that in the european union, representatives of non-governmental organisations, politicians, journalists and even judges and prosecutors who do not support their national governments cannot feel safe in their daily work or private life. it is thanks to the work of the pega committee, on which i sit, that the european parliament has decided to check the phones of members of this house. turns out our colleague nikos androulakis was being spied on. following the disclosure of these facts, several resignations were made in greece. but i don't believe that decisions about subjecting one person to the procedures of espionage fall at such low levels. the government and its agencies are a system of closely interconnected vessels. i therefore disagree all the more with mr mikuláš běk, the representative of the czech presidency of the european council, who says that it is up to the member states to explain the abuses, in other words the breaking of the law and the spying on their citizens. it's like we're giving the powers that be a chance to be the judge in their own case. i'll take this opportunity to remind you of our committee's mission to poland next week. we will do everything we can to find the truth, to identify and punish those responsible. you can be sure of that.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. from the point of view of the polish heating sector, both the commission proposal and the report of your rapporteur impose disproportionately restrictive requirements on heating systems. the proposed changes to the criteria for high-efficiency cogeneration and the emission factor for this cogeneration mean in practice that most of the cogeneration installations in my country, operating both on gas and on coal, would lose their status as efficient systems, which would entail the loss of the necessary support for expansion and modernisation. the heating sector and the industry using high-efficiency cogeneration in industrial processes will face a huge challenge in ensuring the necessary heat supply. in addition, the galloping prices of co2 emission allowances, as well as the prices of raw materials, gas and coal, further exacerbate the situation and create the possibility of a lack of heat supply to households and industry in my country, poland.
in writing. the progressive degradation of forest systems certainly needs to be effectively combated. increased protection of forests, especially primary forests and old trees, is also a demand of polish society. we all in poland want to protect our beautiful and rich forests. we want them to be resilient to climate change and natural disasters, to be healthy, strong and to serve future generations. however, as the member who counter-rapporteured the envi opinion on this issue, i believe that these objectives can be achieved at member state level and that the european commission's integrated strategy, by seeking to gradually extend the eu's competence in forest management, violates the principle of subsidiarity. i am afraid that the combination of the new forest strategy with the strategy's objectives of protecting biodiversity will be a major challenge for the forestry sector. for example, a target of 10% of the country's area under strict protection would mean that poland would have to exclude about 1/3 of its forest area from active forest management.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. today's debate is special because, in fact, everyone is a little bit right, because the intentions are right, we have similar ideas and similar diagnosis. but today, we lack the details, the details of every event that took place during the summer that ended. to diagnose it properly, to count it properly and to manage it properly, as the commissioner said. we have some very difficult decisions to make, because one of them is funding. but unfortunately, there are voices here saying that the fit for 55 package will solve those problems. not for a second. energy policy and climate policy are in a huge crisis right now. we can't even think about what went wrong, where we went wrong, because right now it's the citizens, it's the europeans who are paying for ideas that are not counted, that don't have a good financial basis. remember, poverty is not ecological. if we impoverish countries, if we impoverish businesses, if we impoverish citizens, then we're not going to achieve anything. let's go over the fit for 55 package again, so it really does serve the environment.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union's minimum wage directive has proved to be a real, tough challenge. after intensive negotiations, we have reasonable and at the same time moderate solutions that take account of national circumstances and do not infringe member states' competences. the key point is that the draft directive clearly indicates that it is the member states that take into account the national socioeconomic situation, decide on the weighting of the mandatory criteria, respect valorisation, and strengthen the role of the social partners. in poland, there has been a dramatic increase in the minimum wage, over seven years, from 2015 to 2022, an increase of 109% net. we also have a minimum hourly rate, and the ratio of minimum wage to average wage is over 50%, which was a dream of the unions until recently. we have achieved this effect through a consistent, socially sensitive policy. we have a policy of taking care of our employees without european coercion. workers, regardless of where they are employed, should be paid fairly for their work. the poverty of the working class is another... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! the development of renewable energy is necessary and i think it's not up for discussion. however, we should base our level of ambition on a realistic assessment of our circumstances and possibilities, not on our wishes. by setting unrealistic targets and raising limits and requirements in a way that is detached from reality, we achieve the opposite of what we want to achieve, and we damage the environment. we're creating extreme conditions that are creating enormous pressure on what we call greening in an incredibly short period of time. this is the case for biomass, of which different types have their role to play in the res system. biomass accounts for 60% of the renewable energy produced in the european union, 36% of which is wood biomass, which we are subsidising, we are putting into the overall renewable targets, and we are creating a lot of demand for it. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. i think we should be taking real care of the climate without harming the environment.
mr president, this debate shows that the support of the european union is a very symbolic one, the most support is coming to ukraine from their member countries. poland is one of the leading countries which is supporting ukraine in political, military and humanitarian ways. poland stands also as a hub of international support. at the same time, poland, as i said, which is a leading country in its support, is sanctioned by the european union, is penalised by the tribunal, the commission stopped the recovery plan, and there are a number of resolutions against poland, even based on the fake news coming from this house. so my question, mr borrell, is, would you like to help ukraine by helping poland to assist ukraine in an effective way? so, if you like to help ukraine, you have to lift the sanctions imposed on poland.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the european commission is proposing a package of emergency measures to bring down energy prices. it is worth remembering that this crisis began before russia invaded ukraine. russia's actions are only one of the causes of the current crisis. it is good that it is recognised that consumers are suffering and european industry is sinking. it's good that someone's trying to throw some life rails. the industry is really sinking. it is a pity that the european commission does not want to cut off the stone that it has itself tied around our necks. the stone is the pathology of the ets system. first, we have to free the energy producers from this stone in their necks, and then we have to throw in the various life-saving devices. the whole spectacle of the european commission's concern for energy consumers is really a show of force and will not solve the problems because it does not address the causes. freezing the ets would significantly reduce energy prices. this should be the european union's main contribution to the current crisis. and yet we count on it.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. we are the victims of russia's energy attack because we have become dependent on that country's energy resources. i therefore expect swift action from the commission to impose additional sanctions on russia in response to its hostile actions in the energy market. i also expect the commission to act more quickly to introduce joint purchases of energy raw materials. this was achieved by purchasing vaccines. this must also be the case for the purchase of energy resources. we also need swift action to curb the huge, usurious profits of speculators and energy trading companies. we need to impose penalties, including a ban on activities within the european union, on those who today enrich themselves at the expense of impoverished and starving europeans and failing companies. we need to do more to support the building of more interconnectors between countries. we also need a swift response to ukraine's proposals for the transmission of energy and gas from ukraine to the european union. we also need to limit european taxes, including ets, on energy resources, at least until the energy crisis is over.
madam president, madam commissioner, the european energy market is broken. it's just that the goals for which it was created today are not being met in terms of accessibility, in terms of price to its consumers, and in terms of positive economic incentives and disincentives. we need strong action by the public authorities and europe if we do not want inflation and the price of energy to destroy our economic growth and incubate a gigantic social malaise. because today the situation for many households is unsustainable. this intervention in the european energy market involves: first, extending the iberian exception to the rest of the continent, decoupling the price of electricity from gas; second, finding the prices of gas for access to international markets; third, controlling the futures markets that are speculating on gas; and fourth, limiting the obscene profits from the sky of energy companies. it is a time of heightened awareness, solidarity and the common good. and that is why we cannot accept the partisan and irresponsible approach of some of the opposition parties to the energy-saving measures which are absolutely necessary.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the energy strategy must not be left-wing or right-wing, either in the european union or in the member states. energy policies and measures must be for the people. i am concerned and ask: why are we discussing and spending five or six months in inventorying the problems of the energy crisis and not finding the measures to implement them? we see that we are debating today and that the vote will not take place until october. commissioner, it might be cold in october. how are the people? is it going to happen that in the covid crisis situation, no one will respond, if there will be children, there will be old people who die in their room, in their house, because they don't have heating? so there are solutions. i think we should not delay and find the right solutions. if citizens can't pay their bills because of the energy crisis, neither for gas nor for energy, give them money to put in their solar panels. find concrete solutions, because then the small and medium-sized businesses and industry in the european union will collapse and we will have a humanitarian crisis. we're just going to have a crisis for poor people who can't pay their bills.
madam president, i come from an energy-producing country which has the most expensive electricity tariff in the spanish state and one of the most expensive in europe. while the electricity companies feed their profits, the people suffer the consequences of this energy price crisis. prices rise, households' money falls, prices rise and workers, small and mediumsized enterprises and the selfemployed lose their quality of life and their chances of survival. the cold comes, the winter comes. we need urgent public intervention in the electricity market. i have just arrived in parliament in this parliamentary term and i thought that this debate would have been held long before and it is a debate that comes late, because there are many families who have been put out of the way, like some farmers in my country, who are closing farms because they cannot afford the price of energy.
madam president! europe is facing one of the biggest heating and cooling energy crises in history. rising electricity, energy, coal and gas prices are a concern for millions of europeans, whose individual energy security and winter heat supply is at serious risk. this problem is not just a result of the war in ukraine. this is mainly the result of the rotten agreements with gazprom leading to the construction of nord stream 1 and nord stream 2. we have warned, and my political circle has warned here in the european parliament, of the consequences of these rotten investments, which are making europe more dependent on russian gas and thus undermining our security. politics based on russian resentment, "green" ideologies, not rational premises, led to this armageddon. that is why today we expect and demand above all that the ideological blindfold be removed as soon as possible and that one of the most important decisions be taken: to suspend the emissions trading system until the energy markets are stabilized. it's a very simple step that increases the effects in a short time. and that is what the people of europe need today.
in writing. the next budgetary procedure is already under way. this year, our biggest challenge is russia's unjustified aggression in ukraine. we are pressed by the need to address the issue of humanitarian aid to support ukrainian refugees, both in ukraine itself (internal refugees) and in eu member states. the approach to the draft budget should also be linked to the commission's announcement that it will present an own-initiative amendment to the draft budget (corrective letter) in the autumn, which is to be focused on the issues relating to the war in ukraine. however, at the moment we have no information from the commission as to the amount and scope of this self-correction. as far as payments are concerned, they were proposed very conservatively. we are concerned that they will be sufficient to cover all the needs in shared management, in title 2a of the eu budget, in particular that the proposed free margin is as high as over eur 6 billion. we therefore welcome the addition to the council's position of the traditional declaration of payments. the autumn budget negotiations should result in a joint declaration by the ep, the council and the commission on this issue.
madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating mr lópez istúriz on his comprehensive report. the southern neighbourhood is strategically important to the union: russia's war in ukraine is very serious, but the european union cannot forget what is happening in its southern neighbourhood, whose complex situation also affects us. as this recommendation states, we must therefore ensure that the so-called 'new mediterranean agenda' is adequately funded, commissioner. we must also continue to promote trade and economic exchanges with these countries and make progress in negotiating free trade agreements or in modernising existing ones to cover issues such as services, investment and sustainable development. however, these countries also have to play their part and respect and comply with the agreements in force: it does not seem acceptable to me that a country like algeria has blocked trade relations with spain, thus breaching the association agreement with the union: the union must not look the other way, and it is not that the full normalisation of morocco's relations with spain has been achieved. the european union, in order to ensure its credibility as an effective global actor, should also demonstrate that it has the capacity to influence our neighbourhood; i have to say that i am sorry that the pronouncement of these countries on the war with russia has been rather disappointing: they have followed a line, i would say of indifference, of ambiguity, far from the clear condemnations we would wish for these neighbourhood countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to the attention that this report rightly devotes to the global gateway strategy. connectivity, both digital and infrastructure, is a critical aspect in addressing the challenges we face globally. our partners in the southern neighbourhood have a crucial role to play in this. it also encourages them to pursue regional integration, which hopefully also contributes to peace and stability. the opportunities offered to the economies and societies of our southern partner countries naturally also offer opportunities for our own european private sector to remain competitive while ensuring the highest standards. in addition, the european union and its southern neighbours have a strong interest in better relations, making the global gateway much more than a connectivity and investment strategy.
madam president, the european union has the potential to become the most powerful and credible force on the planet if and when it applies its principles and values and if it really becomes the force that attracts alliances. i must give credit to the dear antonio lópez-istúriz for his excellent report and the vision he puts into it. i really congratulate him for giving a new vision and a new horizon to the european union, by stating characteristically and correctly that the european union must protect its external borders. the european union is a force for security, peace, stability and prosperity for its peoples. the european union cannot and must not tolerate violations of international and european law. the european union rightly continues to stand firmly by the ukrainian people who have been invaded by russia. but it should rightly be much more forceful against a member state of the european union, cyprus, which has been invaded and occupied for 48 years. the credibility of the european union is weakened when it does not maintain the same position, attitude and behaviour towards a mediterranean country. the mediterranean must be protected, because there turkey really threatens with instability, expansionism and aggression. at this time, the european union must show its pacifist face, but also its credibility, by taking a clear stand against azerbaijan, which, in this difficult period of instability in europe and on its borders, is trying to invade and create new facts at the expense of the armenian people, who suffered genocide at the hands of the turks and are now facing the same threats again.
madam president, continuing the commissioner's argument for cooperation with reliable partners in our mediterranean neighbourhood, i would add the following: the european union needs reliable partners who respect international law, and in particular the united nations law of the sea. we need partners who respect the sovereign rights of other states in the region and particularly of european union member states such as cyprus and greece. we need partners who respect migrants and do not manipulate migration flows. unfortunately, a regime in the region, the erdogan regime, has not only been violating international law for many years, it is not only the oppressor of the peoples within turkey, it is not only the agitator of the region, but it is also committing crimes and exploiting the migration flows. that is why we need common rules, so that we can have reliable partners. but we also expect the european union, which is our home, to defend the member states of the european union themselves.
member of the commission. – madam president, rapporteur, honourable members, thank you very much for this very fruitful discussion today. the commission recognises the role of the european parliament and it’s interparliamentary delegations in promoting political dialogue with the southern neighbourhood. parliamentary diplomacy is helping the eu to shape its external policies and pursue its objectives. today’s debate, we think, shows together with the report another very important contribution in this respect. we share your views that europe has to be even more relevant and even more present in the region. this is what brought to life this new agenda for the mediterranean, together with its economic and investment plan. but it will only be successful if it addresses both the challenges of our partners and ours alike, be it the economy, security, the challenges for youth. it can mean only one thing: building a more resilient southern neighbourhood together. i want to reassure you that the commission remains fully committed to supporting the southern neighbourhood and to fostering our relationships in this regard.
the rapporteur. madam president, as i said in my opening remarks, you have clearly seen the interventions of the extreme right and the extreme left. they've come to sell their slogans, they haven't told us anything new. some want to climb walls. others want to talk about conflicts that exist only in their imagination. i thank the other sensible and sensible political groups in this house, who are concerned and have spoken - i have heard many of these speeches - on the subject of the food crisis, on immigration, on the problems of lost youth in many of these countries. how can we help? i am very grateful to the commissioner for his words in this regard, although it is my duty as a member of the european parliament to thank him for the effort that the commission is making at the moment with the food crisis by sending funds, by approving funds for these countries of the southern neighbourhood. but my duty as a member of parliament is to ask for more, to be much more present at these critical times in these countries and to give them more support. as for the food emergency - which my friends in egypt recently told me about - it is vital at this moment to be able to work on it. our security depends on it and the mediation efforts of the european union, which has always worked on it, because we have always been there, depend on it. let's not miss this opportunity now. the unity we have shown and will continue to show tomorrow in relation to this report is therefore a very clear sign that the european union is concerned about our neighbours to the south. and we want to go further into relations not just theoretical but practical, based also on what the european commission is doing, which we as meps must ensure tomorrow. let the countries mentioned in this report take comfort in the fact that we are with them in these particularly difficult times, not only for us - let us not look at ourselves alone - but also for them.
thank you, rapporteur. we had the possibility of being flexible and have a more lively debate on the new agenda for the mediterranean. that concludes the debate. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the mediterranean region is an area of major and additional strategic importance for the eu, as the security, stability, prosperity and resilience to climate change of the eu's southern neighbourhood enhance the security, stability, prosperity and resilience of the eu. it is therefore important to strengthen eu cooperation with the countries of the southern neighbourhood in policy areas, to promote conflict prevention and peacebuilding, to combat piracy and to combat terrorism, radicalisation and extremism. the european commission must also ensure adequate resources for the timely and effective implementation of the new mediterranean action plan.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the urgent need for action at eu level to ensure humane treatment of migrants in europe, including at the borders (2022/2831(rsp)). i should like to inform members that this debate is foreseen with one round of political group speakers. there is no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members. commissioner, let me begin by stressing that any loss of life, people fleeing violence, persecution or in search of a better life is tragic. we are deeply concerned by the worrying increase in the number of reports alleging violations of the human rights of migrants. it is imperative that all actors respect the applicable international and european rules. in particular, eu fundamental rights and values must be upheld, and member states confronted with substantiated allegations of refoulement, violence and abuse of migrants should contact the relevant investigations with a view to establishing the facts. we will also continue to support and work with all our partners to ensure that migration flows at our borders are well-managed and that migrants’ rights are always respected. eu frontline member states have not only the right but also the duty to protect these borders in full respect for human dignity and within the framework of the schengen borders code. protecting the schengen external borders effectively is not contrary to respect for the values and fundamental rights of the eu. this is an ongoing obligation which member states fulfil, despite some huge difficulties, such as the cruel instrumentalisation of migrants by third countries and the specific challenges of protecting maritime borders. instrumentalisation of migrants remains an issue of high importance, and that is why we need a permanent legal framework that can improve our preparedness and our ability to respond to similar situations in an orderly, humane and dignified manner. work has already begun in the council on the examination of the proposal for a regulation on addressing situations of instrumentalisation in the field of migration and asylum. madam president, honourable members, commissioner, we are witnessing a sharp increase of arrivals of irregular migrants in 2022 across the various mediterranean routes. to support specifically countries in the mediterranean, we are closely cooperating with the european commission on the implementation of the solidarity declaration agreed under the french presidency. we consider the declaration as an exceptional instrument of solidarity. at the same time, it is our duty to ensure a well-functioning eu asylum and migration policy that provides international protection to those in need, while ensuring swift returns of those who are not eligible to international protection. here, the new pact comes into play. discussions on the different aspects of the new pact on migration and asylum have advanced significantly under the french presidency, and the czech presidency is taking them forward. the agreement on the roadmap we signed with the parliament last week is an important step in this direction and a clear demonstration of the political willingness of both co-legislators to work on all asylum files with a view to their adoption at the latest by the end of term of this parliament. in this regard, we are now relaunching the discussion on the solidarity mechanism in the council. given the high political sensitivity, we are working on a new concept that could be a basis for a compromise among all member states. the main goal would be to propose a legally binding mechanism that would be realistically agreeable in the given timeframe while maintaining a high level of integrity of the solidarity system. we are also in close contact with the members of the libe committee to ensure sincere cooperation and close communication as agreed in the above mentioned roadmap. i trust that this clearly demonstrates our commitment to move this reform forward, including the crucial issue of solidarity. ladies and gentlemen, let me end my intervention by recalling the important role that our agencies – frontex and the european union agency for asylum – play in terms of assisting frontline member states, but also other member states in managing migration in an effective and human way and ensuring lawful procedures and proper reception of migrants and asylum seekers.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, minister bek, at the signing ceremony of the joint road map on the common eu asylum system and the pact on migration and asylum last week, your president, roberta metsola, spoke with compassion about 60 people floating on a rickety boat at sea and three children who reportedly died of dehydration. reminding us what is at stake; making clear we can only prevent deaths and suffering with a truly european migration and asylum policy. as we show every day in united action by commission, member states and eu agencies. after the moria fire, we supported new reception centres with our eu funds eur 276 million in greece alone. when i started my mandate, 42 000 people lived under terrible conditions on the greek islands. now there are only 2 000 left, in much better conditions, also thanks to the relocation by other member states. after afghanistan collapsed to the taliban, member states pledged to welcome 37 000 afghans with resettlement and humanitarian admissions, and 31 000 have now already found new homes in europe. when lukashenko tricked migrants into crossing the eu border, trapping them in freezing forests, we managed to close down lukashenko’s operation by reaching out to third countries and supported stranded migrants to return home. and when russia invaded ukraine, our union showed the greatest solidarity i have ever seen. we opened our arms to millions of ukrainian refugees by adopting my proposal to activate the temporary protection directive. let these examples inspire us because we can and must do better – much better. i was in latvia last week; the government remains concerned about potential new initiatives on the instrumentalising of migrants. and we continue to stand by ukraine. we know that winter is coming. we need to support ukrainians in ukraine and remain ready when people have no other choice but to flee. this summer, hundreds of people slept out in the streets for days and weeks in belgium and the netherlands. and, shockingly, one baby died. the eu will support belgium with 400 housing units to boost the capacity and 160 units will soon arrive in the netherlands, along with experts from the eu agency for asylum. the dutch government has recently decided on several initiatives to strengthen the capacity, but also to delay family reunification practices. yesterday i spoke to the dutch minister, eric van der burg, and my message was clear: i understand the pressure you are under, we are ready to support but i’m also concerned as all measures must comply with the eu acquis. and he assured me that was also his goal. what we need, above all, is to move from this fire fighting to sustainable policies that will prevent these terrible solutions from ever arising. that’s why it is so important that parliament and council signed the roadmap. it was a very important moment for europe; a commitment to reach an agreement on the whole pact on migration and asylum before the end of this mandate. and i very much appreciate the commitment from the czech presidency and minister back here in parliament tonight to this commitment. we have less than two years to reach an agreement – so let’s get to work.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, in june of this year, 70 000 people applied for asylum in the eu. it was the highest level recorded in a single month since 2016. overall, asylum applications are up 68% compared to last year. of course, we need to ensure that all migrants are treated humanely. this is what our european fundamental values are about. but at the same time, it is not hard to imagine that these numbers pose significant challenges to the capacity of the member states in terms of reception facilities and procedures. and in the absence of a working european system, member states will find it increasingly hard to predict, prepare for and manage migration flows. we need to get in control. if migration will forever remain something that simply happens to us, something that we have no influence whatsoever over, then we will see public support for our policies deteriorate even further. because, yes, there is public support – i am convinced of that – in the whole of europe, for welcoming and protecting people fleeing war and persecution. but that support is conditional on the expectation that we get our act together. we need a real european policy that allows us to defend our borders and our values at the same time – to screen the people that arrive and quickly distinguish between those in need of international protection and those who are not. because two-thirds of asylum seekers are not in need of protection. hundreds of thousands of people that have no right to stay in europe but do so anyway; they need to be effectively returned so our resources can go to those in real need. we need to manage migration inside the eu on the basis of solidarity, like we agreed in the treaties. and we need to cooperate much better with countries of origin and transit to tackle this common challenge and to fight harder against criminal gangs and human traffickers. the resilience of our asylum system depends on the successful adoption of an effective, predictable european system. the epp welcomes the joint roadmap, which was already referred to as a significant step, and we call on everyone to help realise the progress we so urgently need. we are ready to do our part.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. people flee from political persecution and war, from destruction, violence, torture and death. but they don't want to be refugees forever. they want to build a new life, provide for their families, participate in society - regardless of whether they can return at some point. and with ukrainian refugees, we recognize that. we take people in, we offer them education and employment, and that's right and important. but other vulnerable people all too often have very different experiences. many are imprisoned, discriminated against, excluded from the labour market, permanently separated from their families or even forcibly prevented from seeking protection. it is time to apply the positive experience of temporary protection to the asylum system generally and to offer comparable conditions to all refugees. but democracy and fundamental rights are not only under attack from outside, but also from within. the commission could be a strong and committed actor in this area, including in protecting people on the move. instead, mrs von der leyen proposes a dramatic reduction in the right to asylum, with the schengen borders code and the instrumentalisation act. even systematic and violent illegal deportations are not being tackled by the commission, despite the fact that they are well documented, not least by frontex. the rule of law protects democracy and the fundamental rights of all people. this is our european way of life. we must stand up for this, and for that we need a courageous commission with a clear stance. i wish we could have that experience under mrs von der leyen.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. i'm happy to hear voices in this debate. they make it clear that every life is precious. every one of them. i hope you'll also keep that in mind during the abortion debate. the debate on migration is always full of emotion. on the one hand, we have people fleeing hunger and poverty, but on the other hand, we have the safety of our citizens. it is also worth remembering that we as the european union must focus on humanitarian aid on the ground, because it determines the decision of each migrant whether to stay safe in their home or to migrate. and that's the key to how we're going to prevent illegal immigration. but we must also remember the cynical and instrumental use of migrants by the regimes in moscow and belarus as a tool against europe. the more europe celebrated, the more the lukashenka regime sought to organize illegal migration. poland warned that it was part of an organized action. yet, repeatedly, in this chamber, the kremlin narrative has been repeated, falsely stigmatizing member states, including my beloved homeland, who have defended the borders of the european union against a hybrid attack from the east. no one apologized for that today. and today we know that this was an organized part of the action leading up to the direct russian aggression against ukraine. commissioner, the poles have taken ukrainian immigrants into their homes and we're not here to ask for containers, for houses. today we ask you to simply apologize to poland and the poles for all the slander.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. president von der leyen proposed a return to one of the currents within german modernism, the bauhaus. why should we impose german cultural heritage on the whole of the union? the ideas of the bauhaus, because of their leftist nature, could not be developed even in german cities before the war. is the marxist idea of architecture as a tool for solving social problems, which is close to the bauhaus, also close to parliament? we know the consequences. the projected integration has resulted in social and racial isolation and segregation. with the design community, the sense of anonymity, the ghostly blockhouses. mass architecture has not improved the quality of life. let's remember the dark cards of the bauhaus, like the romance with communism and nazism. the architects of this legendary school were responsible for the design of the camps at sachsenhausen, auschwitz, and buchenwald. what is the purpose of adopting an international style which forces member states to abandon their own traditions? is this not consistent with chancellor olaf scholz's willingness to take responsibility for europe? of course, after rejecting national egos, as he calls them, the needs of other countries. there are certain things that member states must like, even taste.
madam chairman, madam chairman of the commission! ladies and gentlemen! the most important part of president von der leyen's speech today was her admission that it was a mistake not to listen to poland and other countries who warned against the european union's policy towards putin's russia. it's good that those words came out. but the question is: is this a real reflection and does he want us to build on this sentence, on this reflection, a different, better, more united european union, because that is what europeans need today? or is this the only sentence that we can all go over and continue as we have been doing? there were many important points made, but there were also points made about the need to defend democracy, the rule of law in the various european member states. yes, the european union must stand guard over democracy and the rule of law. but it is significant that these words are spoken mainly by politicians from the liberal and socialist factions, especially from germany and france. and they refer to alleged violations of the rule of law and democracy in poland or hungary. what kind of democracy is that? is this the kind of democracy the germans want? because how should i take the words of mr. weber, who is talking about supporting donald tusk, and therefore joining the internal political struggle, the election campaign in poland? is it also a democracy that respects the political choices of citizens in the member states? what kind of rule of law are we talking about ? or the rule of law, which respects the constitutions of the individual member states and our principles, our treaties? is it one that is good for germany, for france, or for those bigger, richer people who want to impose their vision of the world and europe on others? we need unity and solidarity. there's a war on the other side of our border. this war could affect all of us. today we must unite and build unity to oppose putin, to learn from the past. i also don't want to remind you of the support for putin and russia here in this chamber. i don't want to remind you that these were former german chancellors, the former german chancellor supported putin and the energy policy of this country. so, ladies and gentlemen, let's have some respect. and really more reflection on the unity and solidarity of all of us.
madam president! yes, we have a war in europe, and not just this criminal russian aggression against ukraine, but also a war for energy security, for economic security, for jobs, and also a fight for civil rights. all those who today attack solidarity, unity and the european community, and our joint efforts to defend these most important challenges, become partners with russia, become partners with the enemies of europe. whether they like it or not, they're putin's partners. so thank you for your warm words about the poles, about poland, about the warnings. the european energy community should be implemented with even greater force. it's the brainchild of george buz and donald tusk. but today, this european energy community should be wider, it should include ukraine, moldova, georgia, the balkan countries that aspire to join the community. this is what european solidarity is all about, and we must put it into practice. the czech presidency's proposal to terminate the 2007 visa policy agreement is an important first step, but it is not controversial. we've gathered signatures here in a day and a half, from the id to the greens, to include a visa ban and entry into europe for family members of people in uniform in the central administration. it's not just putin who's angry. the russian people are giving permission for this aggression and we must respond with european solidarity in this direction too, by banning them from travelling in europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to repeat and recall the words of president von der leyen, which have already been used here today: 'we should have listened to poland and other countries'. and i wish for the president and all of you the courage to change your approach to what is happening in the european union, and to have the courage to listen to each other. i also wish president von der leyen the courage to remember the building of unity and to remember the lessons to be learned from the mistakes made by the german governments in which you have worked.
in writing. i am very pleased that the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, has acknowledged during this important debate that we should listen to the voices raised in poland, warning of the dangers of irresponsible policy towards russia, of the dangers of energy dependence on that country, and of what putin is capable of doing to his neighbours, europe and the world. it is a great pity that this statement is so late, that both the ec and this institution have been so many times deaf to the warnings of so many polish statesmen, starting with the president of the republic of poland lech kaczyński, prime minister beata szydlo and prime minister mateusz morawiecki. prime minister jarosław kaczyński warned of these dangers on many occasions, but you preferred to listen to donald tusk, who was concerned about the best possible relations with vladimir putin, and who even today, in this room and during this debate, is being promoted by president weber, thus joining the internal political struggle in poland. instead, it would be more useful to have a reflection on what germany has done so far and on german-russian cooperation, for example in the implementation of the nord stream and nord stream 2 projects, against which we have repeatedly warned, hearing in response that we suffer from russophobia combined with short-sightedness. putin's armed aggression is the best way to verify who was in this room and is short-sighted.
i am very grateful to the rapporteur. you have overstated the case enormously, so i will deduct those 30 seconds at the end of the debate from your speaking time. i say that at the very beginning of the debate. i think it will be a very interesting, very moving one, so i really ask you to stick to the speaking times, and i would like to announce right now that i will be hammering at the latest 10 seconds after the end of the speaking time and then, when it is 15 seconds, i will really withdraw the word so that all those who can speak can really put their message in.
member of the commission. madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i thank you for bringing the article 7 procedure against hungary back on the agenda of this plenary, in particular in the context of mrs delbos-corfield's interim report on this procedure. it is essential that all the institutions of the union contribute, within their respective competences, to the respect for the rule of law. the commission has on several occasions explained that it shares in many respects the concerns expressed by parliament in its resolution initiating the article 7 procedure. at the general affairs council in may last year, the commission was able to inform the council of the recent developments in hungary. we remain ready to maintain dialogue with hungary in order to find solutions to the concerns expressed. the commission also uses all the instruments at its disposal to address concerns about the union's common values. in particular, in its role as guardian of the treaties, the commission enforces union law, if necessary by initiating infringement proceedings. in july, we decided to refer hungary to the court of justice with regard to the hungarian law which discriminates against people on the basis of their sexual orientation and gender identity. in another procedure, the commission has brought proceedings before the court of justice in respect of the hungarian media council's decision to reject klubrádió's application for the use of the radio spectrum on highly questionable grounds. both proceedings are ongoing before the court. where appropriate, the commission has also used other instruments, such as the european semester, to promote the rule of law. in july, the council, following the commission's proposal, reiterated its recommendation that hungary should strengthen its anti-corruption framework and strengthen judicial independence. another important instrument is the recovery and resilience facility. the commission shall assess the national recovery and resilience plans in order to assess whether they are expected to contribute to effectively addressing all or a significant subset of the challenges identified, including in the relevant country-specific recommendations of the european semester. on this basis, the commission is continuing its discussions with the hungarian authorities on the hungarian plan. the union also has at its disposal the regulation on a general regime of conditionality for the protection of the eu budget. earlier this year, the commission sent a written notification to hungary under the conditionality mechanism. exchanges are ongoing with the hungarian authorities under this procedure, also to see how the shortcomings that we identified could be remedied. last but not least, the commission published before summer the third rule of law report. and for the first time, the report includes recommendations to all member states. in the case of hungary, all recommendations concern a series of issues including judicial independence, high-level corruption, the independence of the media regulatory authority and obstacles affecting civil society organisations. these recommendations are based on the findings of the report. i would like to develop some aspects. as regards judicial independence, the report found that concerns expressed in the context of the article 7 procedure, as well as in previous rule of law reports, remain unaddressed. this is also the case for the recommendation made under the european semester. the national judicial council has been established to provide the necessary legal and administrative support to the judiciary, including the provision of legal advice to the judiciary, and to provide legal advice to the judiciary. as regards the anti-corruption framework, shortcomings persist in lobbying, revolving doors as well as the financing of political parties and campaigns. concerns also remain regarding the lack of systematic checks and insufficient oversight of asset declarations, as well as the lack of rules on conflicts of interest for public interest trusts. the lack of a robust track record of investigation of corruption allegations concerning high-level officials and their immediate circle remains a serious concern. and some new high-level corruption cases have been opened. the lack of judicial review of decisions not to investigate and prosecute corruption remains a cause of concern. this is particular as risk of clientelism, favouritism and nepotism in high-level public administration remain unaddressed. as regards media freedom and pluralism, the continued channelling of significant amounts of state advertising to pro-government media creates an uneven playing field in the media landscape. public service media operates in a complex and institutional system amid concerns over its editorial and financial independence. media pluralism continues to face challenges in exercising their activities, including the surveillance of investigative journalists. access to public information continues to be impeded under the state of danger. as regards the system of checks and balances, the transparency and quality of the legislative process also remains a source of concern. the government has been using its emergency powers extensively, also in areas not related to the covid-19 pandemic as initially invoked. the commissioner for fundamental rights has gained more competences, but his accreditation was downgraded following concerns regarding its independence. the ineffective implementation by state organs of judgments of european and national courts is another source of concern. pressure continues on civil society organisations and the eu is working to improve the situation. public interest trusts have become operational, which receive significant public funding and are managed by board members close to the government. the commission invited all member states, including hungary, to address the challenges identified in the report. we stand ready to assist all member states in their efforts to implement our recommendations. in conclusion, although i am unfortunately not in a position today to report on positive developments, i hope that the procedures under way will enable the hungarian authorities to respond effectively to the concerns expressed. we will in any case continue the dialogue to try to achieve this objective. i thank you for your attention and i am of course listening to your comments.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – madam president, the afco committee expressed in its opinion a deep concern about the deliberate and systematic efforts of the hungarian government to undermine the founding values of the union, in particular through the removal of constitutional checks and balances, by the limitation of the independence of the judiciary, intentional alterations of the national electoral system, hampering fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, university autonomy, media pluralism, and by challenging the right to equal treatment, as well as rights of migrants. it also underlined the systemic misuse of eu funds to the benefit of members of the government and affiliated circles. today we may add ostentatious lack of solidarity with ukraine, the victim of russian aggression, and with our reaction to that crime. when we try to deprive putin of money for the war, hungary just the opposite – makes a profitable business with the aggressor. there is no other way for the commission and the council than to make full use of the mechanism of conditionality. we insist on that.
blue-card speech. – so you criticise the democracy in hungary. i would like to ask you, why do you think you know better everything about hungary than hungarian people?
madam president! well, we have massive inflation in europe, and you want sanctions on hungary and poland again. in fact, you've put more of them on the ground than russia. you say it's to protect the rule of law and democracy. but what is democracy? democracy is the right of the people to choose the kind of government they want. but if you don't like the choice, then these undemocratic authorities impose sanctions on people until they make the right choice. the rule of law is the rule of law. the problem is that you couldn't block the funds under the treaties, the law, article 7, so now you block them without any legal basis, in violation of the rule of law. so you have beautiful slogans, but really behind those slogans is dictatorship and contempt for democracy. the president of the european commission was just saying that courage has a face. it's the face of ukraine. the problem is, cowardice has a face too. it's the face of germany, whose leadership in europe has led us to all these problems. what's your recipe for these problems? you say: more german leadership than chancellor scholz. there is no one! not only in the past - as you have admitted today - it was necessary to listen to poland, to your colleagues as well, but today too it is necessary to listen to poland precisely to know what true democracy is. (the speaker agreed to answer two speeches by raising a blue card.)
blue-card reply. – indeed, indeed, there is something, which i do not agree with about the hungarian government. however, you do not feel better because, for instance, people from your party were, for instance, in poland, people from a communist regime, russia communist regime, and one of them today tried to say to us that he knows everything about democracy. so, that’s the first thing. and the second thing is still the main question. do you understand that democracy is when you agree with the people’s verdict? the people’s verdict is, as you know, orbán, he is once again the prime minister. this is real democracy.
there is a second blue card from mr kohut. again, i would just urge you – otherwise we can’t go on with the blue cards in this way – to ask your question.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. there's a polish proverb: "whoever is with whom he is, becomes with whom he is". you've come to a kremlin collaborator, viktor orbán, a friend of putin, the same man who is now doing business with the soviets as if it were nothing. so please answer me for once and tell me the truth: who is calling for the lifting of sanctions on putin, orbán or scholz? who doesn't allow weapons to be shipped to ukraine, orbán or scholz?
response to an emergency signalled by the raising of a blue card. mr. ambassador, you are a member of the political group with gerhard schroeder, if i remember correctly. - you did? and just now, there was vladimir simosevich, who was the first secretary of communist russia. he was the russian overseer in poland. how can you not be ashamed of asking such questions? and the fact that you're sitting with him today... and who built nord stream 1 and nord stream 2? what political party? you know, without that, there probably wouldn't be a war in ukraine, because putin couldn't blackmail us. and who promised ukraine weapons to fight russia that never arrived? it's chancellor scholz from your political group. if it wasn't for your actions, ukraine would be safe today. it's a shame you even ask such questions.
mr. chairman, please! in all cases, the word "rule of law" is actually being used here. it is forgotten that this treaty concept can be interpreted in different ways by the member states, for example because of very different legal traditions and national case-law. therefore, it is impossible to agree with those of you who, from this place, often, sometimes in a cabaret way, sometimes in a way that i do not hide, irritating, try to impose on proud nation states, such as my country, poland, their interpretation of the rule of law in accordance with the currently promoted leftist and liberal agenda. ladies and gentlemen, it is that you try to make a stick out of obviously reprehensible and condemnable cases, such as violence against lgbt people, religious minorities, ethnic minorities, which you unconsciously throw at countries such as poland or hungary or another country. that you're trying to threaten the largest parliamentary group from this place that if they cooperate with a country where a party wins that you don't like, that will be the end of democracy. for many of you in this gallery, all the banter you chant at every sitting of parliament, whether in strasbourg or brussels, is completely meaningless.
mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner, tomorrow this parliament will vote on the report just debated before on hungary, stating that this country is not a democracy any more. that did not happen overnight. it’s the result of a years’ long process full of smaller, targeted restrictions on fundamental rights. autocrats have a plan to which we have to respond immediately. we learned the hard way. orbán also had a plan 12 years ago. curbing fundamental rights plays a crucial role one way or the other in every autocrat’s plan from the outset. once they secure a position of power and influence, the masks, if they still have them, fall and the freedom they claim for themselves is denied to others. and this will not stop unless we stop them as liberal democracies together. and yes, fundamental rights are under attack in poland, in hungary, but what about the dramatic backsliding in media freedom and respect for human rights of migrants in greece? and let’s not forget that fundamental rights can also be in danger in member states with healthy rule of law. the appalling conditions for refugees in ter apel in the netherlands, my country, are unfortunately an example of that. and i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs who worked on this report and showed the true soul of europe. we should address and counteract every violation of every fundamental right. missing the early signals can be irreparable and unforgivable.
mr president, commissioner, for the second time dear didier reynders, this report sets out our commitment to protecting the values of the european union and also, commissioner, all the progress we have to make to ensure that the union is an area where the rule of law applies, where the rights of women, minorities, lgbt people are protected and where the freedoms of citizens apply to everyone. in the field of fundamental rights, nothing is ever done. but the far right does not accept this factual, documented state of affairs. it rejects it even when the rapporteur, mr fest, who is no longer present, from the far-right group, decides to withdraw his name. i would like to thank juan fernando lópez aguilar and all the fictitious rapporteurs for their work. they took up the matter again, finding that mr fest did not take on the number of serious violations by the populist and authoritarian regimes that his group supports. on the contrary, in my renew group, we are convinced that in the face of the great challenges we face - the energy crisis, climate change, the digital revolution - our common values and fundamental principles are our best support.
the rule of law in the eu is rotten to the core. governments and the commission trample on human rights. people are locked in their own homes, excluded from social interaction and working under the guise of pandemic control. illegal measures that have proven to have failed. police use batons, horses and dogs to beat up protesters. governments use money and coercion to kick critics off social media. citizens are robbed by governments of their property, their homes, their businesses, their land, directly by expropriation or indirectly by absurd levies, taxes and excise duties. the right to property no longer exists. not for farmers now, not for anyone. the people are being robbed of a decent life by raising the price of food and energy, by imposing criminal taxes. people are being deprived of a home, of a roof over their heads, by giving priority to migrants who are pouring in by the hundreds of thousands and who are entitled to immediate benefits and housing. democracy lies in the grave of the corrupt partnership of the big political parties and multinationals. they're playing each other for money and jobs. soon cash will disappear too and then total control over the people will be a fact and all freedom will be gone. this is called fascism, this is called a totalitarian state, and this is called a dictatorship. the people must wake up and deal with their enemies.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. this report, unfortunately, has been a list of grievances, half-truths, for years. it's completely incomplete. it is formulated by the left-wing majority in the european parliament. it is cleverly called the state of fundamental rights in the european union. this is another document to justify the billions of euros spent in the european union to promote sexual minority rights, gender ideology, abortion. in the document itself, the holy grail of the european left, or lgbt rights, appears 46 times, and support for abortion 24 times. and why is there no mention of the definition of marriage, the right to life, or anything else in this report? the european union has no treaty competence. but it's a thinly veiled problem with rising anti-semitism in germany, france and the netherlands, the highest in 30 years. there has been no word of condemnation for the increasing number of physical attacks on christian communities and christian places of worship in europe. in 2021 alone, there were 857 attacks on worshippers and churches in france. the house has not had the courage to condemn them. nor was there room to describe the problems with freedom of speech and freedom of expression in countries like the netherlands. so i think this report is just incomplete.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on human rights violations in connection with the forced removal of ukrainian civilians and the forced adoption of ukrainian children in russia (2022/2826 (rsp)) *._______________* see minutes.
i have received a letter from mr gunnar beck, pursuant to rule 195 of the rules of procedure. i'll give you one minute.
mr. ambassador, you are right about the volume of these resolutions. however, for many years article 144 (2) and annex iv, in particular paragraph 2 thereof, have been interpreted in a flexible way for all political groups, including your political group. i therefore call for all resolutions to be taken and i ask that the author of the resolution, mrs evin incir, be allowed to speak.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! the soviet union, red russia, had a population of 287 million before it happily collapsed. right now, it's exactly twice as much. putin has said many times that the greatest tragedy was the collapse of the soviet union. right now, this red, and now putin's russia, is trying to expand its empire demographically in a different way. in the same hideous way that my predecessors spoke of. and of course, in a different way, because for years, putin's russia has been pursuing a very deliberate immigration policy, which is to bribe the people, the citizens of the former soviet union and their descendants, with houses, apartments, salaries paid all year round. what is happening at the moment with regard to ukrainians who are being forcibly deported to russia deserves the unequivocal condemnation of this parliament.
madam president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, according to reliable estimates, several hundred thousands of ukrainian civilians have been forcibly deported to russia, especially to the unpopulated regions in the far east of the country. this is also the area from which the overwhelming majority of the reportedly dead russian soldiers were coming. furthermore, and even more detestable, more than 250 000 children have been listed for adoption to russian families, again in the least populous areas of the country. the plan here is crystal clear. the russian regime does not plan to stop sending these young men and women to die for a brutal and unjustifiable war. instead, they have already started to substitute those who fall with other innocent human beings, disrespecting all basic international laws. dear colleagues, it is not the first time that this happens. some of you perfectly know what russian deportation looks like, since your countries have experienced that during the 20th century. from this house, we have already said, ‘never again’. yet it is happening right now again. we must stand firm in condemning these atrocities, and we call on the international community to immediately open an investigation and to bring all those responsible, including putin, of this atrocity accountable in front of the international criminal court.
madam president! dear colleagues and friends! the reports of ukrainian citizens being forcibly deported to russia, as well as the number of children who have suffered the same fate, are frightening and sadly reminiscent of the gulag deportations of members of different nationalities in the 1940s. in the 21st century, russia is consistently pursuing its plan to destroy the ukrainian nation and its future generations. imagine that it is your son or daughter, grandchild or granddaughter, that is being taken from you today. if you're lucky, you'll be deported to siberia, to the border with kazakhstan, or even further into russia, but together. those less fortunate will be separated for years and live in a strange place. europe, please! you're watching the russians destroy your nation and deport your children who, like you, wanted freedom, equality and independence. who else but you would remember them?
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2022.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights violations in uganda and tanzania in connection with investments in fossil fuel projects (2022/2826 ((rsp))*._______________* look at the minutes of the meeting.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2022.
the next item is the debate on the six draft resolutions on nicaragua, in particular the arrest of bishop ronaldo álvarez (2022/2827 (rsp)) *._______________* look at the minutes of the meeting.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the arrest of bishop rolando álvarez is a new blow under a bloodthirsty regime with an expiration date that continues to persecute freedoms in nicaragua. the church is persecuted because its devotion and service to the underserved people highlights the incompetence of a corrupt regime that does not care about the nicaraguan citizens. the hard work of a church that does not keep quiet and goes to the rescue of the people is something very annoying for the dictator ortega and for this he suffers reprisals. the people of nicaragua know that they deserve better and that is why they continue to fight against the regime of the bloodthirsty dictator. ladies and gentlemen, our hearts go out to bishop alvarez and all nicaraguans who are facing torture and persecution today. but to them we all say: a regime that oppresses its people for praying and supporting the vulnerable is a regime whose days are numbered. and it is our obligation to denounce the tyranny of the ortega government and all those in the latin american bolivarian left who support it. we must all denounce that without fail in this parliament continuously. and i want to thank all the members from different political parties who have come together around this resolution.
the nicaraguan government has made a real leap in the repression of internal political dissent. now all this is documented by the united nations, by non-governmental organizations, by the eu itself. it all started in 2018 but in recent months it has experienced a real resurgence and the new target has become the nicaraguan catholic church. especially since the church has moved to play a mediating role between the political opposition forces and the government itself: a function of dialogue. first, many radio stations were closed, then the expulsion of the apostolic nuncio and finally the arrest of numerous priests, culminating in the arrest and arbitrary detention of bishop álvarez. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this debate, but i am saying that it should be a matter of the member states and not of the commission. the vote is taken and condemnation is firmly expressed for the immediate release of the bishop but also of all the other forces who have been detained in recent weeks and months, as we have recalled in the motion, without any conditions.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, we are seeing that the repression of the ortega regime does not stop and will not stop at anything: journalists, students, political opponents, ngos and, if that were not enough, now also priests. the catholic church is the last independent institution left in nicaragua; attacks against the church represent the coup de grace against democracy in the country. this is the fifth resolution in three years on human rights in nicaragua, the second resolution this year. we have always asked for the same thing: to activate the democratic clause in our agreement with nicaragua. what are we waiting for? how much more suffering, how many more violations of human rights, how many more political prisoners locked up in inhuman conditions must we see before you, mr high representative, agree to implement what parliament has been asking you to do for years? now is the time to activate the democratic clause.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to begin by thanking the authors of the resolution for their reference to bishop rolando álvarez. but the resolution is also a reminder of the fate of many christians who are persecuted around the world today. christians are a religious group that never wants war. this is a very hardworking, close-knit group. it is astonishing that up to now we have spoken so little about it in the european parliament and have waited so long for a debate in which we condemn attacks on the catholic church, on the faithful, on the clergy, on missionaries. we are pleased to hear the case of our brother in faith, bishop rolando álvarez, the ordinary of the diocese of matagalpa, nicaragua. he was arrested because he stood up for justice against the tyranny of the authorities and defended the closed catholic radio station. he was a freedom fighter. the actions against him are another element of the fight against the church and the faithful in nicaragua. the ortega regime must suffer the consequences of these attacks. and we in the european parliament must do everything we can to defend the believers and the right to freedom of religion all over the world. i would like to say a final word, madam president, to all the faithful in nicaragua. you are not and you will not be alone. with god, it's freedom and victory.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen ! recent years of experience have shown that cohesion policy is a dynamic development of the regions. to ensure this, it must be flexible and adapted to the specific needs of the regions of the member states. it is difficult to say today, given the current energy crisis, the war in ukraine, the post-covid situation and the huge economic recession, what cohesion policy will look like in six years' time. it will only be an effective tool for the european union's dynamic development if it can respond flexibly to changing conditions and new global challenges. if the europe of the future is to be innovative and competitive, and if energy transformation, digitalisation and demography are to become the driving forces of economic growth, we must ensure that the necessary and appropriate level of funding is allocated to the cohesion policy budget after 2027. repowereu, such an important new instrument for europeans' energy security, requires huge investments, but it cannot stand in the way of investment in regional development. and i have serious doubts about that today.
madam president! the importance of developing solutions to the demographic, economic, social and environmental challenges faced by border regions is demonstrated by the fact that they cover 40% of the territory and 30% of the population of the entire european union. most of these challenges can be financially supported through interreg cooperation programmes. however, its budget for 2021-2027 has been significantly reduced. in the case of poland, the national envelope for interreg has been reduced by as much as 20%. the current geopolitical circumstances have shown how wrong this policy is. the russian aggression against ukraine has demonstrated the importance of adapting cohesion policy to the specific and changing needs of individual member states and ensuring that it is adequately financed at a level that allows the objectives to be properly achieved in a given place and time. the war has affected crossborder areas far more than other regions, and new objectives and action plans adapted to the new reality should be set. the strengthening of existing crossborder cooperation programmes between poland, hungary, romania and slovakia and ukraine under the interreg initiative will be a sign of european solidarity with the ukrainian people.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. we support the european parliament's call for adequate and sound funding for cohesion policy. we see the need to simplify procedures. the main challenges for cohesion policy are food and energy security, the low-carbon transformation of national economies, digitalisation and demographic challenges, increased migration flows and finally the effects of pandemics and war. as regards border regions, barriers to border regions continue to relate to mobility and the provision of transport services, the labour market and health. more effective responses to demographic, economic, social and environmental challenges are needed, as well as identification of challenges to address the effects of pandemics and war. the third programme for eastern poland is a positive outcome of cohesion policy for border regions, reducing development disparities. and the general demand: i call on the european commission to unblock the funds from the national reconstruction plan.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner! i wanted to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation on the report. the text was adopted by a large majority and some of the initial assumptions were expanded. i think it is very good that the european commission has taken into account the suggestions in our report to take action, or at least to express the will to take action, to diversify supplies and to prevent the european economy from becoming over-dependent in areas such as energy and raw materials. currently, more than 66% of all critical raw materials imported into the european union originate from china. the dependence on rare earth metals is particularly high, as 98% of the country's supply comes from this country, for example, magnesium 93%. the latest eu analysis shows that the demand for critical raw materials between 2030 and 2050 will increase by 180% in the wind turbine sector, by 220% in the production of photovoltaic panels, by almost 240% in the production of batteries. without decisive, rapid action on this matter, we will not be able to carry out the planned actions in the energy transition. we heard yesterday from president ursula von der leyen that the european union will support the decoupling of the supply of raw materials from third countries. i hope and i think this is a great opportunity for the european union to make those words a guide to action.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! deindustrialization is the nightmare of europe. companies are moving production out of the european union, and nobody is happy about that. it is good that parliament in this report calls for job creation, competitiveness and the promotion of breakthrough technologies. the problem is that in the european commission, those who try to help the european manufacturer work under the same roof, and those who inflict painful blows on him impose additional burdens that are too heavy to bear. i'm sure these people even have lunch together. this is a kind of institutional schizophrenia which unfortunately affects the pillars of the european economy directly. the european union finally understood that it had to reduce its dependence on russian gas and oil. you needed the war in ukraine to do that. maximising the use of our own resources, including coal and nuclear, is the only logical solution in the current geopolitical situation. mrs penkova, member of the s&d group, has already spoken about this. discriminating against or openly rejecting these energy sources is another historic mistake, and the inevitable escape of industry will be only one of its consequences.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i wanted to ask you a quick question: who is to blame for all this ? because i've been hearing for the last two hours that the economy is crashing, that someone's been sleeping over, that we're at war, that putin's inflation is rising, that we're heading for a recession, that we have massive unemployment. i hear that in spain there is currently 37% unemployment among people between 18 and 24 years of age. could you tell me who put you in this situation, because i think there's a guilty party somewhere?
madam president, smes are the backbone, and it’s a term that we’ve used, but they actually are the backbone in our cities, towns and villages in all our communities, and it shouldn’t be overlooked, the vital role that they also provide in services to the large firms and multinationals in our sectors as well, and to their employees. they’re a really important part of our industrial and our commercial ecosystem. we all know them. they are the businesses that are innovative, that are flexible, that are responding to the needs of the communities and the markets where they operate. these businesses, many of them family businesses, have come through a very difficult time following covid. they did receive support in my country through wage subsidies, covid loans, grants, rate reliefs, but now at this time, they are facing a very difficult situation, a challenging situation where many of them may have to cease trading. and that is in light of the energy situation, the large bills that they are facing and the uncertainty around that. so they need help. they need support, they need direct support, and they also need support in accessing funding. and there’ll be many calls on how we can support small businesses throughout europe. one i would call for is digitalisation. that is so important, particularly to access our single market. we need to have more emphasis on digitalisation in this area.
madam president, madam commissioner, since i have been here in 2014, i have heard how important smes are. what strategy should we have for smes? here you are again talking about the state of smes. you talked about lack of access to funding, very large bureaucracy, that's what we're discussing. i am the vice-president of the intergroup for smes and vice-president for the internal market, but nothing is happening. what mrs ursula, madam president, said yesterday went like a bullet in the press in my country. how can they send us to putin with the bills? what is the commission presidency's attitude, instead of saying precisely how to make this price cheap, how to dismantle that fictitious market in the netherlands so that smes do not pay these enormous bills? and yes, you know, smes are tired of talking and they want action. i do not believe what you have said today, because it has been proven that each time we have only spoken and nothing has happened, and that is why i am proposing to you directly, commissioner, that if you want to support smes, you do not pass the ball from the member states to the european union. yes, you are making a mechanism now for direct access to the european union, to a european union budget for smes. don't go through 17 bureaucrats.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate. i am really thankful for the fact that we still have in fresh memory what ursula von der leyen said here in this place yesterday. i would like to refer to that because i agree with those of you who said something like bad times cannot be cured by nice words only. we are not only speaking, we are planning and we are doing very concrete things, short term and longer term. and the president spoke about almost all of the current problems. first of all, short term: the data is clear. smes are under extreme pressure already after covid and now with the war with extremely high energy prices and inflation. we have obligation to help them, short term. and i think that ursula von der leyen was very clear by presenting the solutions which should help in this current very critical situation. she also spoke very clearly – although not in detail – about the medium—term and longer—term measures. first of all, the sme relief package. what she had in mind was securing cash flow. that is why she announced the commission to revise the late payment directive. then simplifying doing business in the single market. we will make a proposal for a single set of tax rules for doing business in europe called befit. and third, we need to look into skills and access to finance. it also resonated here in this debate that the access to finance should be much easier. i am always upset when i see that the rules for financing are extremely complicated. and honestly, i see more complications added by the member states than in the original proposals of the eu. and then, ok so what is the solution for that? so let’s pay, from taxpayers’ money, the advisers to help. why don’t we simplify? it would be much cheaper. so i think that these are the things we have to focus on. on behalf of the commission, i want to say something on regulatory burden, because indeed we are now applying the one-in, one-out. we are assessing whether the new legislation is bringing new obligations and new burdens. and we are looking into the older legislation which should be amended at least to balance it or decrease the burdens. and it goes slowly but surely. and i can tell you, it requires a lot of vigilance, because in every new proposal, we have to test the impact and we are testing the impact on the smes and we try to apply the test of proportionality and necessity. but at the same time i have to say that throughout the legislative process i see the lack of this vigilance. what i see are invisible small steps which are adding more and more burdens on smes. and i think that it requires the vigilance of all of us that we have to say from time to time, let’s stop this madness, we don’t need this and that reporting from the companies around 10 employees or 20 employees. and i could give you very concrete examples, but due to the time shortage i will not do that. but it requires a proactive approach and proactive vigilance against this small, invisible process of adding the burdens. i would call it ‘killing me softly’, with reference to a famous song. we must be very much more active not to let this happen further. in my previous job i was the minister of regional development. i spoke to many smes about the situation. almost all of them were complaining about bureaucracy and regulatory burdens, and when i asked them as the minister, what can i do for you? the answer was, very often, ‘forget that we exist, do not do anything for us. just let us do the business. give us clear and simple rules. that’s it. that’s all we need.’ if we do not do that, we will keep biting the hand which is feeding us because we heard many times here the data which show that smes are the biggest employers in the eu. so what i call, on behalf of the commission, we try to do that, but also i call on the co-legislators to remain vigilant and to always do the test of proportionality and necessity whenever we are adopting new legislation.
this conversation is over. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m.)
i would like to give the floor for a minute to the longest-serving member of this house, mrs constanze krehl.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to take this opportunity to say goodbye to the almost 32 years i have had the privilege of working in this house for the european idea. as one of the first to come to this parliament from behind the iron curtain, it is now time for me to say goodbye. i would like to thank all of you, all those who have accompanied me on this journey for a shorter or longer period, all my colleagues, all the staff, all the administration, all those who have helped to keep this european idea going, all the services, all those who work in the restaurant, those who are responsible for the cleanliness of the offices, those who take us from a to b, those who organise the trips, all of you who are most grateful! the interpreters must be remembered above all. i shall leave parliament, but i shall carry the european idea in my heart. i wish you all the best in this work.
thank you and good luck!
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your vote under rule 195. i would like to draw attention to rule 144 of the rules of procedure, which in my view has been violated. under this rule, i would like to say that after hours of negotiations between all our factions, there was a consensus and that it was found that we found a compromise text on tanzania and uganda and this text clearly says and describes the situation in fact. i would like to say that in the end only two groups signed this resolution, which is a big surprise from my point of view. i would like to say that i myself will vote in favour of this resolution, and i would like to invite all of you to do the same.
madam president, i would like to thank you. what i am about to say is not very original, but it is simply a matter of using the usual formula to ask our colleagues to refer the matter back to committee to start interinstitutional negotiations. this is in accordance with our rules of procedure, as provided for in rule 59 (4) thereof.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 12.47 p.m.)
the minutes of yesterday’s sitting and the texts adopted are available. are there any comments? as that is not the case, the minutes are approved.
the next item is the commission statement on the ecological disaster in the oder river (2022/2824(rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for putting this issue on today’s agenda. like you, we were deeply concerned about the reports of a massive death of fish, birds, beavers, mussels and other organisms in the oder river. since anglers found the first dead fish in late july, as much as 200 tonnes have been removed on both the polish and german side. the commission has been following the situation very closely. as soon as we received the first reports about the disaster in mid-august, commissioner sinkevičius spoke with the two environment ministers in germany and poland to express the commission’s concerns, to better understand the situation and to offer our support. the commission’s emergency response coordination centre requested an additional analysis from our joint research centre and reached out to operational points of contact in poland and germany, both from the civil protection and the marine pollution authorities to plan in advance a possible technical and operational support if needed. now that the immediate crisis has been contained and authorities have managed to the extent possible to control the situation, it is important that authorities and citizens understand exactly what happened. unfortunately, today we do not have yet complete clarity. several causes have been suggested. most evidence now seems to point into the direction of the sudden growth of an algae which produced a toxic metabolic product that killed fish and many other forms of life in the river. the algae could grow thanks to warm, slow or still water, and crucially, the presence of high levels of salt. where this salt would have come from is still an unanswered question. we must thus, first of all, establish with certainty what happened and why. the polish and german authorities are working closely together to get clarity as quickly and completely as possible. politicians, authorities, ngos, media and citizens from many countries understandably reacted strongly to the sight of large numbers of fish floating in the river. rightly, they were wondering whether, had warning signals been given on time, this could have been at least better contained and whether such an event could happen again in the oder or elsewhere in europe. i think all these questions must be answered. we need to learn lessons from what happened. firstly, we need to improve the way in which neighbouring countries alert each other and the european commission in such sudden accidents, with a view to acting fast to prevent or at least mitigate the problem whilst urgently warning those concerned. secondly, we need to establish with clarity what went wrong. we should uphold the polluter—pays principle and establish if a concrete activity can be linked to the pollution. finally, we need to understand whether, and if so, to what extent, the state of the river and/or the specific climate and hydrological circumstances played a role. this is a most difficult issue and takes us beyond the specific case. many rivers in europe are, like the oder, heavily modified to suit inland navigation, industry or energy production. all rivers in europe are increasingly subject to climate change. it is very important that member states consider the risks that rivers run. rivers can play an important economic role, but there are limits to what their ecology can handle. with less water and lower flows during part of the year, member states should take all this into consideration when taking decisions related to economic activities on or along their rivers. we take this incident very seriously and the commission will keep the situation under review. eu law applies: eu water law, nature law, law on industrial pollution and on environmental liability are all potentially relevant. depending on what turns out to have triggered the events, we will ensure it is applied in full to this case and for the future. we are ready to support the most concerned countries and have offered expert assistance and information on potential eu co-funding instruments, ranging from short-term emergency support to longer term river restoration support. and we will keep this house informed about any developments in this case.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. what happened on the oder in poland in the last few weeks, is the biggest environmental disaster we've seen in poland in the last few decades. it was a dramatic sight. i live in szczecin, a city in and around which we have seen thousands of kilograms, and throughout poland hundreds of tons, of dead fish. for weeks, ordinary fishermen, ngos, local government agencies have been alerting the government that someone is poisoning the oder. and then this disaster happened. and the sight of fishermen, ordinary, private people, who were catching their own nets to catch the fish that had been caught - the fish that had floated out, because hundreds of tons were lying on the bottom - was a shocking sight. weeks have passed and to this day we have no explanation, no information as to who contributed to this. the media is reporting that the big companies, maybe state-owned companies, that poisoned the oder are to blame. today we have a situation where the polish government is basically silent, doing nothing. the european commission should clarify this matter: who and how poisoned the oder? why is the odra river in poland today a dead river? you should all - we should all - hear the dead silence over the oder. there was always a flock of birds, a movement of animals. it's dead quiet today. and we need to explain what happened there so it never happens again. and that's our job here.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. in the dying odra, you can see through a lens the whole sick, poisoned country ruled for seven years by the united right camp. you see the senseless centralization and taking away from local governments the powers they need to manage. you can see the employment of cousins, partners, husbands and other family members, because now we or we should, to quote the classic. i can take a bath in the oder, but hold my clothes. you can see the complete chaos of information policy. and you can also see the demolition of good polish-german relations. you can see the destruction of the rule of law and the destruction of the separation of powers because the government of the pen knows that it is impunity. that's why she swept the case under the rug. and odra is our business. this is a silesian matter. it's a polish thing. odra is a czech matter. and the german case. this is our common european cause. and a shared responsibility. and there is no doubt that it is man behind the disaster on the oder. the golden algae could have developed from human activity salinization of the water. but we still don't know who caused this ecological disaster. that 's why prime minister belka and i intervened with the polish authorities . we wanted to know if the saltwater discharge to the oder and its tributaries had been increased. of course, we didn't get any answers. we asked that all the research be shared with the scientific community and the public. no answer, of course. because the polish government is allowed more. you can ignore the citizens. you're allowed to insult political opponents. you can send the da's office to fishermen. they may, but remember, pride and the shoe go before the fall. it could have been different. seven years ago, you couldn't just kick people out of government. you could have kept the companies from being filled with sweats. after all, it would have been possible to create adequate warning and response mechanisms. the state could have worked. instead, we had the banality and chaos, which is the essence of the pis government. we're gonna have to deal with you. not because you've been fishing in the oder, but because of incompetence and lack of professionalism. so if you weren't already responding to an environmental disaster a month ago, at least you're mitigating its effects now. close international cooperation. restoring the wetlands. and the forest, not the logging. this will help increase water retention. give this river, like this community, a chance to rebuild. let's get to work!
on behalf of the renew group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. you mentioned the 200 tons of dead fish in the oder. i want you to imagine that. that's about the weight of the statue of liberty. so many dead fish have been caught from the oder by those who clean it, work it and count it. two months have passed, and we still have no information about what really happened, who the perpetrators are, what the consequences of this disaster will be for the environment of the countries mentioned, for the health of the people who live near and far from the odra. commissioner, let's be honest, this disaster is not caused, as we often hear, by natural causes. this is another lie from the government, which has remained silent despite being warned four years ago about the catastrophic effects of polluted water flowing into the oder. since then, nothing has changed, even after the european commission opened proceedings against the polish government in february this year for failure to comply with its obligations as a member state, for not adequately controlling the discharge of pollutants into our rivers, for not implementing the so-called wastewater directive. it's a pity that commissioner sinkevičius is not with us today, because he is the one responsible for protecting the environment. and i would like to ask him, does he work closely enough with ngos, does he listen to the experts, the whistleblowers who defend the environment, does he treat them with the due attention and seriousness, does he take advantage of their knowledge, their experience? if he had, many of his questions would have been answered today. we have to thank the civil society: the fishermen, the firefighters, the volunteers who saved people's lives and health and saved our common river in this crisis. however, commissioner, what next? it's very depressing that we have to turn to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to turn to the european commission to protect assets that our own government should be looking after. but we are dealing with an environmental crime and we need a proper investigation to make sure it never happens again. and we cannot rely on the polish government administration to shift the blame for the disaster onto others, he says, with unreliable information. the commission's action is awaited by those who are aware of the danger and the dangers that still lie ahead. madam president, allow me to say one more thing. we are waiting for the kind of action from the european commission that we saw in the white tower rescue. because we're still seeing destruction, like the vistula trench, the extension of the emissions from turov. and we're waiting for action, for environmental facts, so that environmental action is actually concrete.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. i wish we could discuss what's important to resolving the causes of the ecological disaster on the oder. in two weeks, in three weeks, at the next meeting in strasbourg. commissioner, the applicant countries are well aware that the polish government, but not only the german government, as well as the commission, are awaiting the results of the investigation. they'll be here on september 30th. then we'll know a lot more. let me remind you that 30,000 samples were taken, and studies are being done in several european countries, and they are consistent. decisions are being made on the verification of water-law permits, which may be outdated with climate change and the deterioration of water, not only in the oder. fish slaughter is, unfortunately, becoming more common. that is why cooperation and knowledge are so important to draw lessons not only in poland but to make these lessons useful for work and prevention of such events throughout the european union. i therefore thank the european commission for its restraint, which has repeatedly said that it awaits the results of the studies. a number of actions are announced, because we are not passive, we want to move forward, draw lessons and above all support the inhabitants, the citizens, but also the river. we want odra to come back to life every day.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are all affected once again once again! and the fish dying off the oder is an ecological disaster. experts have identified toxic algae as the cause, which is produced when rivers are polluted and salted by industrial wastewater. nearly 300 illegal drainage pipes have been discovered on the oder so far, including one illegal drainage pipe in a polish paper mill. we must say that industrial plants in general, unfortunately, discharge their waste water into the river because they want to avoid the costs of disposal. so it's an economic problem for a lot of businesses. nutrient inputs from agriculture, pollutants from sewage and stormwater pipes and, and, and the list is long. the sensitive ecosystem of the oder, one of the few rivers that has remained relatively natural, is exposed to a variety of pressures from these human influences and cannot withstand them, despite the european water directive. the worsening climate catastrophe is also leading to low water levels and high temperatures. and my colleague neumann spoke from the waist up, so to speak, about what was possible in the summer. the literal stench of dead fish has deeply frightened people along the oder on both sides of the border. the ecosystem is being deliberately destroyed, i would like to emphasise this once again, and the plants and animals living there are losing their habitat in times of increasing species extinction and biodiversity loss. that's a completely wrong approach. i therefore call on the commission to work with the eu state of poland to bring an immediate end to the dredging work already under way on the polish side. and yes, we also need cooperation between germany, poland, the czech republic, the european union and perhaps also the other baltic sea countries in terms of mutual warning systems so that we can act quickly. i would ask the german government to ensure that the construction work does not begin at all. despite the recent verbal declarations by the federal ministry of the environment against the development of the oder, it has not yet become known that the plans for the development measures on the german side have been stopped. the german government is probably still carrying out a strategic environmental review here, and the effects are actually visible to the naked eye. we must therefore work together, we need german-polish cooperation, we need the support of the european commission, especially for the people of the region, for the mitigation of the effects of this fish death and also for the development of a macroeconomic perspective for the people of the entire oder region west and east of this river.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: you can say you're waiting for the results, but you should have acted sooner. as important as what poisoned it, it's who poisoned it. big bets are suspected, and there aren't that many. clearly, the rulers are not interested in explaining the situation or drawing conclusions for the future. insufficient procedures have been put in place to help not only identify the specific causes of the incident but, above all, to improve future action. one of the reasons for this ecological disaster is that the river system is not sustainable. many problems could be avoided if fewer permits were issued for the discharge of industrial waste, waste products, etc., into rivers and if there were better controls over what exactly is being discharged. unfortunately, there was no such thing. the lack of clarity about who is responsible, and the impunity of the perpetrator, raises fears that such a disaster could happen again. i want to remind you that any human encroachment on an ecosystem not only destroys the environment, but it also harms all of humanity.
madam president! it is time for health, the environment and animal rights to become the exclusive competence of the european union. in these areas, the european union must itself be the law. it is time to debate the amendment of the treaties and to give the community all the powers necessary to ensure that the european commission finally takes the lead in protecting human rights, the environment and animal rights. because the current situation shows that this system is not enough. of course, those responsible for poisoning the odra must face the consequences. we need to clarify whether and what mistakes the polish authorities have made. but in the european parliament we must think systematically and look for solutions so that the environment in the european union is absolutely protected and that the commission has the competence to do so. i would therefore ask the commission what specific legislative initiatives it intends to put forward. how does he want to change his structures? what new law and what new legal instruments does it want to be? what will it do to protect our values and our rights effectively?
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. any ecological disaster, any disaster with the consequences that occurred in the oder, is deplorable and condemnable. but, madam president, allow me to make a personal reflection. equally devastating is the catastrophe of poisoned minds and the hatred of total opposition. the speeches you have just made here, the speeches of the polish meps, are completely out of touch with reality. if you follow your reasoning, the melting of the ice in greenland or antarctica is also a consequence of the lack of rule of law in poland and the consequence of the rule of law and justice. i'd like to say, ladies and gentlemen, there is a limit to stupidity. but, as a citizen of szczecin, i would like to thank all these citizens, members of the public, fishermen, aquarists, motor boatmen, the state fire service, the government administration, the governor of lubuski, władysław dajczak, the governor of west pomerania, zbigniew bogucki, for their real fight against the real threat. another very worrying element that comes up in this discussion is the demands that poland suspend the regulatory work on the oder. it's like, oh, the guy with the poppy. you've regulated all the rivers in germany, in the netherlands, in belgium. do you expect poland to be the center of europe? i'm not going to do that. the polish government will continue its work on regulating the oder.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! after almost two years of legislative work on the european health union package, we are now approving its two key elements: the strengthened mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control and the regulation on serious cross-border threats to health. both regulations are complementary and share common objectives to prepare us as well as possible for possible future health crises by ensuring consistency in preventive action. the enhanced mandate of the ecdc, which i had the honour of negotiating on behalf of parliament, is a very important part of our collective healthcare system, together with the regulation on cross-border health risks, which i worked on as an ecr sub-rapporteur. the covid-19 pandemic has been a difficult but somewhat valuable experience for national healthcare systems. it was an extreme lesson in sacrifice, solidarity and resourcefulness. in particular, the pandemic crisis has highlighted the importance of rapid response at local level to the emergence of disease outbreaks and the importance of adequate training of medical staff and member states' administrations in the development of the national action plan. therefore, in the enhanced mandate of the ecdc, the european union health task force will have a special role in developing, analysing and updating member states' preparedness plans. we also learned how important digitization is in public health management. i hope that effective digital platforms for epidemiological surveillance will be created. e network of functional eu reference laboratories as well as the microbiological safety net will further strengthen epidemiological surveillance systems. the pandemic, and especially the early stages of the pandemic, when we were still moving in unknown territory, revealed the need for close coordination between the european union and the world health organization. i am therefore pleased that the negotiated mandate will help to better align and coordinate the european union's recommendations and actions with those of the who in order to ensure their consistency and complementarity. as a rapporteur for parliament, i have also worked to ensure that the mandate and the ecdc support national public health action rather than replace it. it is necessary to respect the principle of subsidiarity of action at european union level in such a way that the union supports and coordinates the action of the member states where action at national level alone would be ineffective. i think that the negotiated text expresses well these proportions of competence and that the delegation of additional tasks to the centre is in keeping with the requirements of our times. no country is able to address a cross-border public health crisis on its own. i therefore fully support the proposed enhancement of the mandate of the ecdc to monitor epidemic risks in the european union and to recommend countermeasures in the framework of the regulation of cross-border health threats in relation to the comprehensive legal framework of the union's preparedness and early warning activities. i would like to thank all the members and co-rapporteurs working on the ecdc report for their excellent cooperation and for the many valuable comments during the negotiation process. i ask you to support my report. at the same time, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the crossborder health threats regulation, mrs véronique trillet-lenoir. ladies and gentlemen, i'm sure we share the same intentions. we want better health for our citizens, stronger health systems, and coherent and effective action in times of crisis.
(in response to comments made by mr m. spyraki with the microphone off) i'm not on the list, madam ambassador, for you to volunteer.
i'll give you the floor, please.
thank you very much, madam ambassador! of course, i voted for you, even though we had no record of you having voted.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! thank you for all the comments and feedback, for the hard and honest work we've done together. i would also like to thank commissioner stella kyriakides for the proposal for a regulation that the commission has put forward in the health union package. thank you also for your help with the agency's budget records. i would also like to thank the slovenian presidency for the negotiations and the many meetings at technical level. i also thank the council for its openness and the necessary negotiating flexibility. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues, the assistant rapporteurs, for their substantive and constructive cooperation. once again, congratulations to the rapporteur on the transboundary health threats regulation. the negotiated agreement offers the opportunity for synergies between union and national measures, while avoiding duplication of work. i would like to say, in reference to your comments, that i agree that more could have been done. there's always more to do. nevertheless, benjamin franklin himself once said that the best doctors give the least medicine. i have therefore tried to apply this principle, also as a medical doctor, to find appropriate solutions for the synergy of ecdc, commission and member states' actions, while at the same time selecting measures that are appropriate to our real capabilities. in working on the ecdc regulation, i focused on the key aspects of strengthening preparedness, improving data reporting and sound risk analysis, which you all also strongly shared. i believe that the proposed changes significantly extend the mandate of the agency, thereby giving it greater operational capacity to better ensure the safety of europeans.
i'm closing the joint debate. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 4 october 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. - madam president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you down. dear colleagues! i am pleased that today we are taking an important step towards the european health union, which was announced by the president of the european commission, mrs ursula von der leyen, at the world health summit two years ago (25 october 2020). today, we are laying the foundations for a stronger european health union, with 27 countries working together to detect, prepare for and respond to threats. but there is a more important matter that i hope we can address soon. it's about buying together not just medicines or vaccines in times of pandemics or other emergencies, but medicines in general. patients all over europe are waiting for this. there is a huge disparity in the access of eu citizens to treatment for rare diseases, effective cancer therapies, etc. we cannot build a strong european health union without decisive decisions. we can't look at corporations and businesses. the patient must always be the center of our attention!
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the 'impulse for action for the oceans: improving ocean governance and biodiversity' (2022/2836 ((rsp)).
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. what is religious freedom? it's a basic human right, not a religious issue. the un human rights treaties and our eu legislation also include the free exercise of religion as a human right. article 18 of the universal declaration of human rights establishes freedom of religion as a fundamental right and, very importantly, the right to practice it. the report adopted by the special rapporteur on religious freedom outside the eu on 15 january 2019 also addresses the international enforcement of this fundamental right. it is a shame for eu decision-making that the special representative has not been appointed by the european commission since. this sends the wrong message, that the european union is not committed to solidarity with the disenfranchised. the eu will only be truly authentic if it has a substantive mandate. in our report to the commission three years ago, we set out this clearly and in detail. i repeat: until the appointment is made with the proper authority, the union is promoting a culture of indifference to those who suffer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, commissioner, for some time now it has seemed that religious freedom is an uncomfortable subject, one that should be dealt with reluctantly, strictly late at night and without ever voting on binding documents. and when they do happen to be voted on, it is hard to tell who are the victims and who are the torturers, almost as if this basic human right is, well, the child of a lesser god. we are helpless when this fundamental freedom is attacked in our europe, where you can be strangled in a church, as father hamel, or run over by a tram as you flee an anti-semitic attack, as jérémie cohen. we are helpless because political correctness fails to recognize that radicalism is the child of wrong immigration and integration policies. but we are also helpless in the face of the daily persecution that too many human beings around the world suffer because of their faith. and we are helpless because more than 80% of them are christians, and this embarrasses those who would like to confine christianity to the private sphere and to cut our judeo-christian roots from the tree of our common european identity. this exaggerated relativism has for some time now prevented the commission from establishing, even for a short time, because we are now at the end of the legislature, the special envoy for religious freedom, a figure who exercises the soft power of the european union towards third countries, so that this right is always guaranteed in relation to all persecuted minorities, perhaps making the disbursement of the huge resources we spend every year on cooperation and partnerships conditional on its protection. the world situation is steadily deteriorating. there's not a minute to lose.
president, commissioner, i have just come from pakistan. in pakistan, hundreds of people are on death row because of their faith. ahmadis, christians awaiting the death penalty, accused of blasphemy. it's not just in pakistan. there are countless countries in this world where christians and other believers are persecuted. the eu has the obligation, enshrined in the treaty, to stand up for religious freedom. so i have only one question for you: where is the special envoy for religious freedom? i have sent letters to mrs von der leyen, the christian-democratic chairman of the commission, to mr schinas, the christian-democratic commissioner responsible for that envoy, with my colleagues in the chamber and myself, perhaps six or seven times over the last few years. where is the envoy? he must be appointed! the man who's been working on it for months can start today. i want to hear from you, the appointment of that envoy, today!
thank you so much for this debate. i join the call for the appointment of a new high representative for religious freedom. this is important. persecution for the faith is a major and pressing problem in the world today, but it primarily affects christians as the largest group of believers. independent reports indicate that the persecution of christ's followers reached historic highs in the past year. one in seven christians has experienced some form of discrimination or persecution. more than 360 million believers in 76 countries are forced to fear their fate every day because of their faith. that is why it is so important for us, on the part of the european union, to verify the non-discrimination clauses, because in this case they must include the rights to freedom of choice and religion. and finally, in my homeland, poland, citizens in christian action have collected over 150,000 signatures in support of changing the law to effectively protect catholics, the church, and people of other faiths. and i want to thank them all very, very much from this place.
in writing. the armed aggression of the russian federation against ukraine has led to the destabilization of the geopolitical and economic situation in the world. the escalation of this conflict is particularly damaging to the central and eastern regions of the european union, including poland, leading to a severe migration crisis, disruption of supply chains, and dramatic increases in energy prices and costs. the situation is therefore an emergency and requires urgent action. the commission's proposal for 'flexible assistance for territories' (fast-care) should therefore be implemented as soon as possible in order to meet these challenges to the greatest extent possible and in response to the needs of individual member states. therefore, more flexibility in the use of funds should be ensured and the funds should be able to provide support more rapidly and more fully in order to relieve national budgets and facilitate the implementation of actions addressing both migration challenges and market disturbances in key sectors of the economy. the crisis is far from over, and we need to focus on getting it over as quickly as possible, for the good of all of us. it is clear that the changing situation requires additional, reinforced action.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the day when a universal charger for electronic devices such as smartphones, tablets, game consoles and even laptops is introduced is a special day for european consumers and the end of a long-running debate. today we are sending a clear signal: no more tedious management of the many chargers that end up as e-waste. the key benefit for the consumer will be the possibility to use one charger for multiple electrical devices, i.e. charging a laptop and a phone with the same power supply. when you buy new equipment, you can opt out of the new charger and use the one you already have, extending its life. this is a significant step towards user comfort. in the past, when replacing equipment, the old charger was often found to be useless, which generated unnecessary costs for the buyer and caused excessive generation of e-waste. in short, one universal, reusable charger will make it easier for all of us to function in an increasingly digital world. the commission has also found that the measures in question are not compatible with the internal market.
i thank mr saliba for his report. i would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur, the people who have worked with him and the colleagues who have taken part in this excellent debate. let me say that it is very good to see this parliament so concretely engaged in solving the problems that affect the lives of citizens. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 october 2022. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. several hundred million mobile phones and other portable electronic devices are sold in the european union each year. this number is gradually increasing with the development of new technologies. unfortunately, the number of discarded cables and chargers is also increasing. they contribute to 11,000 tons of e-waste every year. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to supply the union industry with the product concerned. a major change is about to take place thanks to a landmark decision by the european parliament and the council. from 2024, all small portable devices such as mobile phones, headphones, e-book readers and game consoles will have to be equipped with a usb-c charging port, and from 2026 laptops will join them. the new solution will significantly increase the convenience of using electronic equipment. instead of tangled cables, european consumers will be able to use one charger for all their devices, leaving some €250 million in their pockets. the packaging will be clearly labelled and you will be able to choose whether to buy the device with or without a charger. it also benefits the environment. less e-waste means less resources and energy consumed and less co2 emissions.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, the renew europe group has always been and will always be a voice for persons with disabilities. i have said it before but it bears repeating: our society will never be complete until all our citizens can play a full part in it, including the more than 100 million eu citizens with a disability. the report we discussed today highlights two of the barriers to an inclusive society, and they are access to information by our citizens with disabilities and the implementation of accessibility requirements. european legislation creates many good and useful obligations on member states and businesses to take into account different needs. but if our citizens with disabilities cannot easily access information about our rights, how can they exercise those rights? how can our citizens exercise their rights if the laws are not fully implemented? through this report, we call on member states to establish national disability accessibility hubs and for the commission to create a digital accessibleeu centre to address these problems. these hubs need both adequate funding and human resources to work in practice and renew supports these calls for action. to overcome the gaps and inconsistencies in current legislation and to overcome the knowledge levels of our officials is not going to be easy, but it is of vital importance. we need political will, and i can assure you that there is a political will in the european parliament. europeans with disabilities are not ‘others’, something apart, they are us, and each of us deserves the right to live a life to our full potential.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. to my colleague katrin langensiepen: our group can be proud of the work you do every day in the fight for greater inclusion and accessibility in europe. the european centre for accessibility is long overdue, because i am sorry to say that i do not know of any country, or even any european institution, in which there are no barriers to disabled people, which make their lives more difficult or even exclude them. this is why we need to make rapid, concrete and radical changes if we are to live up to the promise of a more inclusive eu. and we want to! it is not enough to have nice words and sound strategies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, madam commissioner, the european union has been building a progressive strategy to support the rights of european citizens with disabilities for several decades. however, people with disabilities are still facing significant barriers to access education, employment, healthcare and sport. moreover, it is clear that the pandemic has disproportionately affected disabled people, both economically and with regard to social inclusion. more often than others, they have been cut off from health services and lost access to the labour market or education. this is why i support the creation of the accessibleeu centre, as well as the final report we will vote on today. it recognises the important work that has been done in recent years to support accessibility in the internal market. i welcome the approach taken whereby the centre can act as a hub to draw together expertise and share best practices for policy development between national authorities. last, i believe that oversight of the centre’s activities should be carried out jointly by national competent bodies to ensure maximum efficiency of this essential piece of the eu’s disability rights strategy. its role and responsibilities should also be limited to its core mission, as an expanded mandate in the form of an agency, notably, may prevent it from reaching its objectives.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. accessibility is often associated with physical or digital environments, but its definition and content vary significantly between disability groups. for deaf people, because of their specific linguistic and cultural identity, accessibility means full access to information and knowledge in the national sign language. the accessible eu hub should make clear that accessibility goes beyond the physical and digital accessibility of the built environment and services. this is a very important question. the centre should support member states and successfully link national and eu bodies with all user groups, in particular organisations representing persons with disabilities, to shape the details of access for all groups of persons with disabilities in their interest, with the involvement of those concerned.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with today's decision to set up an 'accessibleeu' centre, we are taking a step towards the single market that some may not have expected, because we want to take account of the fact that this common area, this common market, can only be used together if all citizens have the same rights and the same opportunities. because accessibility is not only an end in itself, but also a means to an end. it is right and important that we succeed in giving all europeans the same opportunities through barrier-free access, especially in the areas which are of paramount importance in our daily lives today. this is more difficult in some member states than in others. so it is good that the 'accessibleeu' centre now enables an exchange, a joint collaboration under one roof, which ensures that the best ideas spread across all the member states of the european union and we ensure that all citizens have adequate access. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's right to vote is respected.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: around 100 million citizens of the european union are affected by disability. despite laws that seek to ensure equal rights in all areas of life, they often face barriers to full participation in society. our priority is to create an environment that enables people with disabilities to have full access to every aspect of life and the economy. this is why it is so important that the european commission allocates the appropriate financial and human resources to the creation and operation of the accessibleeu centre. the aim of the project is to develop a european network of national experts in the field of accessibility, to provide them with the necessary information and to provide them with the necessary support to carry out their work. in five years' time, the centre's activities should be evaluated with a view to streamlining and updating them and to deciding whether or not to set up an agency. i hope that this important project will significantly improve the quality of life of disabled people in the european union.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! this report has a direct impact on the lives of millions of eu citizens with different levels of disability. and for that reason alone, it should be important to all of us. the right to participate freely in social, political and economic life is a human right. parliament must work to facilitate the flow of information, in particular on any substantive support for the implementation of accessibility policy provided by experts from the commission and the member states. the accessibility of the built environment for the disabled is one area where we have a lot of work to do. i believe that the centre will be a space for dialogue with people with disabilities who understand the problems they face every day. i also believe that the centre will best fulfil its role by providing a pool of expertise to inform eu and national authorities, thereby inspiring them to take advantage of solutions and good practices that have worked in other countries. however, it should not be transformed into the agency mentioned in the report. let us support real action for the disabled, rather than focusing on creating new offices.
in writing. the report on promoting and supporting accessibility in the internal market is another important step by the european parliament towards the implementation of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, ratified by the eu and its member states. as the ep representative in the european monitoring framework for the implementation of the crpd, i am particularly proud of this. i've been watching the problems with the convention for years. one reason is that decision-makers have insufficient knowledge of accessibility requirements. what is shocking is that we are not only not removing existing barriers sufficiently, but we are creating new ones, in the full majesty of public procurement. for years, i have been advocating the widespread installation in residential buildings and public facilities of 'modern' elevators with touch panels, which limit the independent functioning of blind, visually impaired and elderly people. hospital elevators that display information about which elevator to take to get to the floor you want are a nightmare not only for patients but also for fully functional visitors. to avoid such misunderstood modernity, it is necessary to draw on the expertise of experts, especially representatives of persons with disabilities, as well as to train officials and decision-makers and to exchange good practices. i am very confident that the accessible eu centre will be able to effectively support institutions, organisations and businesses that are making changes to design for all and to make goods, services and the whole environment more accessible to all citizens, regardless of age or ability level.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. fellow workers! the text of the european parliament resolution addresses pressing issues and rightly calls for improvements in the housing conditions of roma communities, greater social integration and the fight against poverty. the roma activation shows the dramatic housing situation in roma settlements and these shocking conditions that we have been talking about are absolutely unacceptable. unfortunately, the text is also unacceptable in many places and completely deviates from the main theme of the resolution. it calls for the swift implementation of a general conditionality system to protect the union budget, suggests that member states are violating the eu treaties and falsely accuses some states of segregation and discrimination against roma fleeing ukraine. but i also want to say that to be effective in improving the situation of roma, we need good, thoughtful national policies, local and regional policies, and cooperation with these projects and co-financing them with the european union. i can use the good practice i got from poland. we're creating a network of teachers to support education for roma students, we have education systems, scholarships at all levels. roma education assistants are included in the list of professions. i think that all that is needed is determination, cooperation, resources, and that improvement effect can be achieved.
madam president, i want to thank the commissioner and the minister for their very constructive remarks. roman settlements are really a picture of the middle ages. no energy, no gas and water connections, no education and work, the spread of disease, it's really like a picture from the middle ages. and i am also ashamed that many of my colleagues in this chamber have not taken the opportunity to speak today, even though they have taken part in the debate. i think the situation of europe's largest ethnic minority called for our colleagues to speak out. it's a disgrace. it is pointless to describe further the situation of these settlements. this is the third or fourth time we've had this conversation this season. we need to find a solution. isolated action is pointless. i believe it is important to find solutions at european level combined with national and regional solutions. and i am really in favour of the creation of a european coordinator to deal with the roma problem, because this shame we face really has to end.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. europe is strong because of its multiculturalism. as you know, i am a member of the silesian minority, a minority still unrecognized by the polish government. and our language, silesian, silesian dialect, is not even recognized as a regional language. but i fight for it and i never give up. we are waiting for the results of the census, which will show, i have no doubt that poland is not a homogeneous country. and i'm curious how it turned out, because we did a lot as a silesian tribe to inform that the other is not inferior and that everyone has the right to their identity and their language. silesia is a beautiful place on the map, our home, a fifth of the world, where for years representatives of different nationalities lived in harmony: silesian, polish, german, czech, jewish and roma. and we will not be swayed. kaczynski, orban and other nationalists, we don't have those numbers. other doesn't mean worse.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. listening to my friends and colleagues, i know one thing. that our delegation has a strong mandate, that we all speak the same language. this is important! it will have the courage to push through all the recommendations that favour biodiversity, which are behind the solutions to block international trade in wildlife. i am therefore pleased to say that we are in favour of better enforcement of prohibitions and restrictions on trade in protected species, of transparency, of facilitation and financial security in the implementation of this convention. at the same time, we are in favour of strengthening the role of the european union in the global fight against trade in wild fauna and flora and ensuring the implementation of the european union action plan against trade in wild fauna and flora for 2016-2020. good luck and good courage.
, a question asked by raising a blue card. i understand you're from france. that's my question because you spent a lot of time in your speech just now on legal issues and you accused different people of different things in your speech in the current situation. i ask you this: as a french citizen, did you also speak out and make accusations against president macron when he was buying arms from russia against the law? have you made any comments?
madam president! we have heard in this chamber of the necessity of starving poland, hungary. today we could have heard other scandalous words, namely that the commission had finally grown teeth. i understand the teeth to bite a country like hungary. ladies and gentlemen, your left-wing perception of reality is already beginning to take on a cabaret character and let me tell you that the louder you criticize the governments in budapest or warsaw from this place, the more the citizens of these countries turn their backs on the very union that you represent. ladies and gentlemen, although today's debate concerns hungary, we have also been talking about poland. poland is the second country in terms of transparency and efficiency in spending these funds. and maybe this is the answer to why you're attacking my country like this. you're afraid of poland growing. but i'll tell you this: hurry up, because these cabaret discussions on the occasion of each session, once poland, once hungary, end. you'll have to add sweden in a minute, maybe italy. and you're scaring the commissioner today. earlier, you threatened to dismiss the commission president if she did not effectively fight the right-wing governments. unfortunately for you, europe is changing. this wheel of change is advancing, and you will be left behind in history.
madam president, the rule of law is a key european value. dear commissioner, the rule of law cannot be negotiated too much. it is a historically proven value. what we see in hungary is disrespect to the judgments of the international court, control of the media, of the press, violations of the independence of the judiciary, human rights, minority rights, et cetera. it is irrelevant how many times mr orbán was elected – the election cannot justify stealing european money and the violation of european values. the eu budget is supposed to protect the values of the rule of law. european funds cannot help to deny european values. how long do we have to wait before these values are finally protected? now we finally have a tool with which we can achieve the protection of our values. money is a tool that an autocrat understands.
madam president, for the first time in a long time, the european commission is proposing to activate the rule of law conditionality regulation and to suspend hungary's access to important community funds. the first thing to say is that this is a significant and very important initiative which sets a precedent for the future. he only sins by being late. mr orbán must understand that the values of the rule of law, enshrined in the lisbon treaty, are to be taken seriously and that it is not enough to announce measures. the necessary and sufficient political and legislative measures must be effectively implemented. this parliament, which fought so hard for the rule of law conditionality regulation, can only now demand that the council approves the commission proposal and lives up to its responsibilities.
madam president! not one euro for viktor orban, not one euro for the whole of europe. this sentence is a slap in the face to the bulls of pisa who are defending here the interests of putin's friend from budapest. the pis is defending a man who is openly acting in the kremlin's interest. pis defends the man whose enemy is a free ukraine. what did orban promise you that you'd be on his side? perhaps you plan to escape the courts and the state court to budapest? you have to admit it. do you have the courage to tell the people in poland that you are defending hungary, which is torpedoing sanctions against russia? do you have the decency to say directly that the man we're defending has brainwashed his supporters into thinking that nato and the u.s. are responsible for the war? do you have that courage or don't you? i'm not defending schroeder, for example. it's a shame he's still in the spd, i condemn his behavior, as does our entire polish delegation. but mr. brudzinski, mr. yadwig wiśniewski, do you have the decency to finally cut yourself off from orban, putin's friend?
mr president, since the death of mahsa hamani, a 22-year-old woman who was the victim of the iranian police of morality and who had misused her veil, dozens of people have died and thousands have been arrested for demonstrating for their rights. and contrary to the claims of the iranian supreme leader, who sees these protests as foreign manipulation, these women, these young people, these brave men demand only one thing: the end of the regime that oppresses them, that imprisons them, that slaughters them. the european union has levers of discussion with this regime and we must use them by expressing our solidarity with these protesters, by demanding the immediate release of all the protesters but also of all the human rights defenders in this country, by supporting the demands of these protests, by calling for targeted sanctions and by placing human rights in all the discussions and agreements we have with iran.
dear president, thank you very much and good evening, dear high representative, dear colleagues, over 100 deaths and still counting, we all know the brutal story. public protests in iran broke out after amini died in custody after she was arrested for not wearing the hijab correctly. we cannot close our eyes to these atrocities. we must pursue a clear strategy in which we put women’s rights on the top of the agenda. as madeleine albright once said: “there is a special place in hell for women who don’t help women”. therefore, mr borrell, if you don’t want to go to hell – and i think you don’t want to go to hell – i really urge you: provide access to our european universities, support civil society in their fight for women’s rights, protect human rights defenders and target directly the leaders and people who are responsible for these crimes. let’s never give up on women, the life and the liberty in iran. they need our help.
madam president, mr high rep., vice-president, mahsa amini, the young iranian woman of kurdish origin was beaten to death by the so-called law enforcement forces of iran. the regime – directly responsible for her killing, as well as for violent crackdowns, murders, violent crackdown of the massive protests that followed this crime – has been led for a few years already by president raisi, a person directly responsible for judicial killings, a crime against humanity, towards the end of the 1980s. stop impunity for this kind of crimes. high rep., it is high time that we impose, as you say, restrictive measures against those who lead this kind of barbarous regimes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. the murder of the young iranian woman mahsa amini by the so-called morality police is deeply shocking, as is the brutal violence now being used to stifle the protests in the country. we are told that over 100 people have been killed, hundreds injured and thousands of innocent people imprisoned, victims of the criminal, even murderous regime in iran, a regime that has been courted for far too long by political forces on the left and right - including in this house. i am impressed by the courage of the young people in iran - especially the young women - who are risking their lives these days for a life of freedom, self-determination and dignity, and are not intimidated by the violence and state terror of the regime of the mullahs and the revolutionary guards. the call for freedom is coming from iran, my colleagues. we can't overhear him! we cannot leave it to mere expressions of solidarity. the eu must punish the government in tehran and its inhuman system with targeted sanctions. we owe it to the desperate, brave people of iran.
mr president, high representative, i deeply regret the death of mahsa amini. she was arrested for improperly wearing the hijab, a symbol of faith. she had to experience an inexplicable amount of violence by the iranian morality police, which led to her death. and it’s as if the faith can come from the force. god is not in beating, but in loving. i strongly condemn the excessive actions by the iranian authorities against the nationwide protests that have erupted after the incidents. the iranian people are gathering in the streets to call for freedom – freedom of religion, freedom to exercise their basic human rights. iran is a party to several international human rights treaties, but they fail to implement the binding principles enshrined in these legal documents. i call on our european diplomatic services and the international community to monitor this process and to push for objective investigation of all other arrests and incidents related to the protests.
the hell of women in iran has been going on for years. poverty, violence, massive unemployment, lack of protection from violence, marital rape and early or forced marriage are commonplace in iran. 17 days ago, brave girls and women stood up. they stood up to this disgraceful regime. today, women in iran know that they have rights, and they don't hesitate to use them. the question is, what are we, as a democratic world, going to do about it? that is why, mr president, we have not only a moral but also a democratic obligation. we need to impose tough sanctions on the iranian regime. in every conversation with this regime, we must emphasize the importance of human rights. we can't let these women down. women in iran need to know that they will never walk alone again. this is our commitment.
mr president, high representative, colleagues, there are moments in the history of man’s struggle for liberty when only poetry will do. i recommend to you a song called barai by sherwin hajipour, whose lyrics are put together from messages sent by protesters that describe what this is about. ‘for dancing in the streets. for fear when kissing. for yearning of just normal life. for this polluted air. for tears with no end. for this forced heaven. for pills of nerves and insomnia. for women, life, freedom. for freedom. for freedom!’ dear iranian sisters, i hope you win this, but you are already our heroes. from the bottom of my heart, i salute you!
mr. chairman, please! churchill is credited with saying that the balkans are the soft underbelly of europe. today we can say with certainty that the soft underbelly of europe is the sahel countries. why am i talking about this ? because on the one hand, of course, there is the enormous tragedy of the people of this poor country, and on the other hand, as a polish poet said, we see that other devils are at work there. today, it is obviously the russians, by destabilizing the political, social, economic situation in countries like burkina faso, like mali, like sudan, are the ones who are destabilizing this situation actually using it for putin's policy. why would you do that? because the destabilized sahel is the destabilized southern border of the european union, but also those poor refugees who have arrived in belarus by a strange coincidence. putin is perfectly using what we're seeing today in burkina faso to destabilize europe. and we also have to have an awareness here in this house, leaning with concern over these poor people, seeing the struggle between the local tribes, between the shepherds and the farmers, we have to see in the background another devil, which is putin.
madam president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. europe's security also depends on the stability of africa. severe water shortages, food crises, religious and political conflicts are driving ever-increasing waves of migration, increasing the threat of terrorism and security threats. the eu's role in the region is to provide a framework for the development of the region's economic and political stability and to address the root causes of conflict and migration. instead, it enforces unilateral aid, migration and left-wing sexual and reproductive ideological aspirations. the eu's policies to encourage migration remain unchanged, although a migration policy that respects national competences is needed. illegal immigration must be stopped and the union's external borders must be strengthened. we see this every day on one of the most affected western balkan migration routes. stability in africa, stopping illegal migration is one of the keys to european security.
madam president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the horn of africa is a region of strategic importance to europe. not just in terms of trade and economics, but in terms of the security of our continent. eu action in the region must therefore be effective and targeted, and must also respond to real local challenges. in the current situation, in the midst of the food and energy crisis, we need clear priorities, not vague references. it is a mistake to assume that economic growth in the region, the curbing of migration, the strengthening of democratic processes can be achieved without security. security is a prerequisite for sustainable development. we have to accept this premise quite simply. despite the economic investment, the fight against climate change, the lack of security undermines state government, creates an unpredictable economic environment, and ultimately hinders the expected development. as the commissioner will no doubt agree, there is an urgent need to establish conditions for quality education and training in addition to safety. besides quality education, the availability of qualified teachers is also a key issue. the sub-saharan region will need 15 million new teachers by 2030. we need to see a multiple return on eu investment in education, and in particular in teacher training. building on this, we can offer real opportunities for young people to overcome poverty through investments that create local jobs. the idea of migration as a viable solution is simply false. we need to recognise the links between security, education and job creation and migration. ignoring all this is not only a concern for european security, but also a deception of african youth with false promises.
madam president, commissioner, i had the opportunity to join the mission of the committee on foreign affairs of this parliament to ethiopia and sudan in september as chairman of the european parliament delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. it was an intensive mission of dialogue with government bodies, civil society and international partners, in particular the african union, and in which i was able to witness the great relevance and sensitivity of the resolution we are debating here today, and i welcome its rapporteur. a healthy relationship and strategic partnership between the european union and the horn of africa is important to both sides. it is therefore important to create the conditions for it to be possible without misunderstandings or frustrations. it is essential to strengthen the european union's political commitment to dialogue for peace, to responding to security and humanitarian needs, to respecting sovereignty and to developing a structured partnership between equals based on the universal values of freedom and human rights. at the same time, we must affirm that, while respecting sovereignty, the european union is not indifferent to the suffering of the people, to security, freedom and respect for humanitarian aid processes and, therefore, cannot fail to point out and condemn actions which call these principles into question, whatever their origin.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to turn to the specific conflict in ethiopia, which is also a major player in the horn of africa. recently, there was a striking report from the ethiopian ministry of education about a donation to the ethiopian military. this has raised questions about cooperation projects between educational institutions of our european member states on the one hand and ethiopia on the other, out of concern that the resources of these projects would not only benefit education but might also fuel the conflict. the projects we support are useful and necessary in themselves, that is beyond question. but that is precisely why, with the right mechanisms, we as a union must continue to monitor closely the responsible use of funds for all cooperation projects involving the union and its member states in the framework of our partnership with the horn.
madam president! countries in the horn of africa face similar challenges of government instability, climate change, and ethnic conflict. these problems have intensified particularly since the outbreak of the tigray conflict, and in addition to inter-communal violence, the floods in sudan, the drought of 2002 and the locust plague, the humanitarian situation has worsened dramatically. it should also be remembered that the scale of food security has deteriorated as a result of russia's war against ukraine, as the rising food and fuel prices have only exacerbated the problem. it is therefore essential that the union continues to support the region, in particular its stabilisation, and to continue to cooperate for development and peace and the prevention of civil conflict, especially as the countries of the horn of africa include some of the main countries of origin and transit of migrants in the region, including to the european union. i support the call for a holistic approach to migration that takes into account the specific nature of conflicts and their context.
madam president! sudan, eritrea, ethiopia, somalia, kenya, the horn of africa today, this region is the crossroads of vital strategic shipping routes. today, about 12% of the world's sea freight passes through the red sea and the gulf of aden. with more than six million barrels of oil shipped annually, russia and china are now competing for regional power. and where russia appears, there is chaos, destabilization and war. in this context, it is necessary to say loudly that the barbarism of putin that we see today in ukraine is resulting in famine in this region of africa. over 90%, about 90% of the grain imported by the countries i mentioned, came from ukraine. and finally, as a former sailor, i would like to draw your attention to the situation of the sailors on merchant ships, who are exposed to the loss of life every day by somali pirates, for whom this chaos and war are the enablers of this practice. and in the background, other devils, including islamists.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this discussion, and once more, congratulations on the report. i found it very interesting and very important. the horn of africa will remain high on the eu’s agenda, so cooperation with the au and other regional and subregional entities in preventing, managing and containing conflict is essential. so is our support for the people of the region, including to address the acute food security crisis. actually, i wanted to inform you that in the last weeks, we have redirected an additional eur 146 million to east africa to help them to face the food crisis. so we are very much following the situation on the ground and i am happy that we were able to redirect some additional financial support to the region. regarding dependencies, as you know very well, we want to strengthen the resilience of the horn of africa. the way to do that is, for instance, by supporting their own vaccine—production capacity, which we did during the current or the previous covid crisis. a similar approach is now on the agenda when it comes to food security. we want to support africa’s capability to produce more food – in africa, for africa. cooperation with like-minded partners to counter the influence of actors who aim at destabilising the region is also crucial. many of you actually referred to that. africa, especially the horn of africa, is a geopolitical hotspot. everybody is there. and that’s why it’s also so important that we keep on engaging with the countries of the horn of africa – because my assessment is that, especially among the citizens of the horn of africa, they very much value and give value to our cooperation and also share our values. last but not least, the engagement of team europe, so with the member states, and there development finance institutions (dfis) will be key to strengthening eu political and economic ties with this region. the sooner it materialises, the better. we need to show our partners that we walk the talk and that’s why we are working on very specific, concrete projects on the ground.
the rapporteur. thank you very much, dear vice-president barley, dear commissioner, thank you all for your valuable contributions which have reaffirmed once again the centrality of the horn of africa on the international chessboard and the relevance of our bilateral relationship. i thank the commissioner for mentioning some specific points in relation to kenya, ethiopia, sudan and somalia, which are obviously central countries, and which are dealt with in the report, and of course specific aspects of uganda, sudan, djibouti and eritrea. we have therefore tried to give an answer, and that answer can only be found in the strengthening of the strategic partnership between us, between the european union and the horn of africa, through frank and timely dialogue to be conducted with care, the right methodological approach and the will, therefore, finally to listen, even with an open mind, to the demands and needs of our interlocutors. only then can we play a positive and indispensable role in resolving the disputes and conflicts that beset this region. only in this way can we build with them a sustainable and inclusive human economic development, one that puts human security at the centre and also changes the paradigm of our initiatives, leaving behind a paternalistic approach too tied to the donor-recipient concept, which has often accompanied our work in the past and which, as has also emerged from the talks i have had with the diplomatic representatives of the individual countries, often leads to creating walls of mistrust and hostility, thus ending up by accentuating the way in which they look with greater openness and favor to other actors who do not play by our same rules, but above all do not play for our values. ladies and gentlemen, historical circumstances require us to play a more decisive role and remind us that geopolitics has the horror of vacuums, that if there is a vacuum it will certainly be filled, but it is not indifferent to how it will be filled. we have very important historical, political, cultural and economic links with the horn of africa, but to be at the centre of this action, to be a decisive player, we must put our distinctive features at the centre of this will. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have touched on many subjects in these speeches. it is impossible to go through all of them, but i would like to stress that tomorrow's vote will give us the opportunity to strengthen our external action, but above all to build it in a way that is actually able to overcome these misunderstandings, which have sometimes marked our relationship, and to bring about a european union that is up to the challenge of that mirror which is africa in geopolitical terms because of our will to be a credible actor, an effective actor. i hope and thank you again for your support, and i hope that we will always be consistent in our view of greater strengthening, of actually being on the side of an africa which can build its own solutions, which is more resilient and which is for us the key partner with which to defend the multilateralism of the future.
in writing. the situation in the horn of africa continues to be tense, uncertain and violent. but the region and its stability are also important for the european union, so it is crucial that the eu also contributes to this. it is clear that russia's war of aggression against ukraine has worrying immediate and long-term consequences for the horn of africa and that the eu must adapt its relations with the region in response. one area of concern is undoubtedly russia's activities in sudan through the wagner group and the proposed military base. it is also important to continue to call on the countries concerned to ensure the protection of human rights, for example by releasing the swedish-eritrean writer and journalist david isaaki, who has been detained since 2001.
the rapporteur. madam president, the truth is that if water is the basis of life, access to water is a human right, perhaps the most basic, and its enjoyment is a prerequisite for other fundamental rights such as health, education or the rights of women and children. however, the human right to water and sanitation is dramatically misallocated across countries, regions, classes and social groups. a couple of facts to help you understand: one in three people in the world does not have access to safe drinking water, which means that more than 3 billion people - 40% of the world's population - live in areas with severe water scarcity. today, access to water is threatened by multiple reasons: extractivism, land grabbing, intensive livestock farming, hydroelectric dams, polluting agribusiness, war conflicts and, of course, the climate crisis, with record temperatures and historic floods and droughts. in fact, about 90 percent of all natural disasters today are water-related. their scarcity could displace 700 million people between now and 2030 in search of climate refuge. a situation that particularly affects women. and this report calls for a gender approach that takes into account these inequalities in water resource management. and that is that water resources are, today, an over-exploited and disputed commodity. the denial of access to water and the destruction of water infrastructure have been used by occupying powers, such as israel or morocco, to displace the palestinian or saharawi population. this report recalls that all peoples, including the occupied, enjoy the sovereign right to control their natural wealth and to equitable access to water. this text also addresses the situation of those who defend the human right to water and sanitation: indigenous communities, afro-descendants and peasants, environmental rights defenders and social leaders who are being attacked and criminalized daily for defending the right to water. berta cáceres or the defenders of guapinol or lolita chávez are some examples of those who are persecuted for defending access to a public and common good or for confronting mining and hydroelectric companies. we need binding instruments to ensure that transnational companies respect human rights. in this context, the report calls on the european commission to ensure that infrastructure and energy projects financed through the various instruments of development cooperation and european foreign policy respect and do not jeopardize the human right to water and sanitation and do not contribute to the expulsion of indigenous peoples from their lands and territories. the pandemic has once again demonstrated the market's inability to provide basic goods and rights for life. instead of taking note, two years ago water started trading on the wall street futures market, against the criteria of the un special rapporteur on the human rights to water and sanitation. the report stresses the need to protect water as a common and public good, and calls on states to take measures to prevent water from being used for financial speculation and to promote democratic governance and a human rights approach. ensuring equitable, universal access to water requires increasing public investment in sustainable infrastructure, protecting water as a public and essential good, and undertaking privatisation processes to improve the effective enjoyment of the human rights to water and sanitation. let us sincerely hope that this report is another step towards ensuring access to water as a human right that allows a life worth living.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, i welcome this debate today on access to water as a human right. as we have all experienced, water is a precondition for life and therefore for the enjoyment of all human rights. however, access to safe drinking water and sanitation is still a major challenge in many parts of the world. i am glad that the report recognises the importance of the 2019 eu human rights guidelines on safe drinking water and sanitation. it is a reference framework and working tool for us across eu institutions and around the world with impacts on our policies, programming and public diplomacy. equally, the eu’s gender action plan iii emphasises the interconnectedness between women’s and girls’ human rights and gender equality on one hand, and the right to water and sanitation on the other. this is also part of the first ever youth action plan, that we have adopted today. there is a long history of conflicts over water resources, and the modern world has all too commonly witnessed the use of water resources and infrastructure as a weapon of war. this is why the eu and its member states promote the rights to safe drinking water in multilateral and regional forums. it is why we have projects worldwide. we have dedicated more than eur 2.5 billion to water cooperation in 62 countries. we fight for sdg 6 and access to water to be on top of every political agenda. there is a need to strengthen multilateralism and dialogue on water and to ensure that water governance is inclusive. therefore, eu is actively supporting outreach efforts through eu delegations to call for the establishment of the un special envoy for water. equally, we are working hard to create momentum for the 2023 un water conference. the urgency to act increases every day. so does the need to protect those who stand up for our public good. human rights defenders are on the front lines to protect their rights and the rights of their communities. the eu greatly contributes to their protection. last week i signed an additional eur 30 million to the eu flagship protecting human rights defenders, protectdefenders.eu. let me underline again that i fully share the concerns and priorities outlined in the report and you can count on us to actively pursue the right to water as a human right.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i thank the co-rapporteurs and the rapporteur for more than six months of negotiations and almost a year of hard work on this report, and i also regret that the debate was scheduled at such a late hour, which unfortunately prevents some stakeholders from hearing it live. especially since it's a very, very serious matter. with climate change coming, access to water, or lack of it, will have a huge impact on millions of people around the world. conflict over water, land and habitat is and will become more frequent, and climate-related disaster-induced migration will increase significantly. i spent the last 26 years of my life working for a charity. from the second chechen war to the subsequent conflicts, countries and continents have been building access to water. it's the basis for aid to many countries. i've been to many countries where people suffer from a lack of access to clean water. we are the ones who are largely undermining the human right to water and sanitation through excessive consumption of water resources and pollution caused by industrial abuses and inefficient management of resources. i am therefore pleased that the report recognises the right to safe drinking water and sanitation as a human right and emphasises that both rights are complementary and necessary for public health and human development. despite the considerable resources allocated, as the commissioner has mentioned, i would urge the european union to increase its resources for the construction of water access.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. water is life, and the right to water is a basic human right - and we agree on that. water resources are relatively scarce and fragile. but because of the local shortages, water is now an absolutely strategic resource. its deficiencies are the main driver of subsequent humanitarian crises, as well as a key underlying element of refugee crises. almost two billion people worldwide have problems accessing clean water, and in europe alone, nearly 100 million people are affected. 129 countries around the world are struggling to provide a sustainable water supply for their people. and all this in the face of analyses by the world bank and others that indicate that demand for water will increase by 50% by 2050. access to water is a factor of destabilization and tension in many countries today, especially in africa and the middle east. the only way we can change that is by increasing our investment in strategic water treatment and water retention. today, a stream of investment is needed and is the only solution to the impending water crisis. so every euro from the european union rightly spent on exploration and on water is the right direction. but i also want to take this opportunity to thank all the ngos that are working on the issue of access to water, especially for the poorest. i want to thank them very much for that.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. the declarations of all bourgeois parties on the right to water are a fraud, as they say. the european union's direction, the direction of governments such as the new democracy in greece, is to promote entrepreneurial action with the support of the bourgeois state and eu funds, on the basis of the revised euro-directive of 2000, with the involvement of business groups and through the ppp, as is happening today in greece, with the privatization of the external water network of attica, prepared by the syriza government, incorporating edyap and eyath into the super-privatization fund. the people to strengthen their struggle for no increase in the price of water, drastic reduction of bills, no water interruption in popular households, permanent staff with rights to abolish contractors, water management for the benefit of the people, this presupposes freedom from the laws of the market and capitalist profit. water, water treatment, networks, irrigation, sewage become social property and not a commodity, to meet people's needs and protect the environment.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the debate today testifies your continued commitment to this very important subject. we greatly appreciate the proposals you made today and we are happy to continue to discuss our actions to increase access to water and sanitation worldwide. to conclude, water really stands at the heart of human development, but also peace and stability. without adequate safe and affordable water and sanitation, billions of people, including particularly women, young people and children, around the globe are unable to lead healthy lives and lack the ability to build secure livelihoods. so yes, the right to water is a human right.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to take this opportunity at the end of the speaking time to ask that the debates on human rights should not be the last debates of the evening in this house. i think it speaks ill of this parliament and it speaks ill of the european union that debates on human rights are being relegated to precisely 10 or 11 p.m. i think they deserve a lot more. i simply want to thank those who have spoken during this debate and who have made it possible for this report to reach the plenary and for a vote to be taken tomorrow. i would like to make a special mention of the secretariat of the parliament's subcommittee on human rights, the shadow rapporteurs of the various parliamentary groups, their technical teams, who work in the shadows, and most particularly my colleagues ana and leire, members of the staff of the left group. without the invisible work of all these people, none of the reports we are debating and voting on in this and other partsessions would be possible. finally, i would like to remind you that although this report focuses on the external dimension of access to water and sanitation, as has been acknowledged by other colleagues who have preceded me, we cannot ignore the fact that there are also serious problems in the european union in enjoying this right of access to water. without going any further, in the european union, 13 million - and let's say fast - 13 million people are at risk of being excluded from the right to access water. we hope that the adoption of this report will make a modest contribution to the fight to make the right to safe drinking water and sanitation a universal reality, both in europe and in the rest of the world. because we cannot forget that the enjoyment of this and other rights is a matter for political decision. and tomorrow we have the opportunity to make a good political decision.
madam president, i am pleased to support this report from my colleague, ms trillet—lenoir, for a regulation on serious cross-border threats to health. these new measures aim to strengthen public health in the eu when faced with serious challenges, such as the covid-19 pandemic. the pandemic unfortunately revealed how the european union severely lacked the tools to counter a health crisis, and consequently our national health systems faced extremely dark and challenging times. public health systems across all member states were overwhelmed and exhausted. the pandemic also showed us the importance of european solidarity and coordination. the report recommends strengthening operational coordination at european level and the promotion of solidarity in the european union. i welcome the regulation and i support it.
a uachtaráin, i was pleased also to vote in favour of this report. it aims to build resilience and competitiveness within the eu aquaculture sector. the eu imports 70% of all the aquatic food it consumes. in this regard, the eu aquaculture sector has a great potential and it is important that the european commission and eu member states provide the legal framework required to develop it further. eu aquaculture contributes to food supply and food security by providing sustainable and quality food products with a smaller environmental footprint than land—based, thus ensuring that eu aquaculture progresses in accordance with the green transition, while also bringing socio-economic opportunities to coastal regions and rural areas. i think it’s a worthwhile initiative and hopefully member states, including my own, can avail of the opportunity.
madam president, uimhir 3, i think we were all very happy to support this report and to see it being approved by an overwhelming majority because it establishes a single charging portal for mobile phones, tablets and other portable electronics in the eu. not before time. the aim of this proposal is to improve consumer welfare and reduce the environmental footprint that comes from the manufacture and disposal of chargers and is part of a broader effort to make products in the eu more sustainable, reduce e-waste and make consumers’ lives easier. beyond saving consumers money, there is also an environmental benefit. while electronic waste is the fastest-growing waste in the eu, less than 40% is recycled. this law aims to reduce the volume of such waste. so now, people all over europe, including myself, can go to our boxes and drawers, which are full of all sorts of chargers, which we will never again need to use and dispose of them properly.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on russia’s escalation of its war of aggression against ukraine (2022/2851(rsp)). dear colleagues, today’s key debate is on russia’s escalation of its war of aggression against ukraine. on 30 september, after russia staged a series of sham referenda, it illegally annexed the occupied territories of ukraine in what is a blatant violation of ukraine’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and international law. on behalf of the european parliament, as we open this debate, let me reiterate: donetsk, kherson, luhansk and zaporizhzhia, just like crimea, are – and will remain – part of independent and sovereign ukraine. no sham referenda can ever change this.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. madam president of the parliament, madam president of the commission, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking to this house on behalf of the council of the european union to explain that since the high representative and the commission jointly presented a new package of sectoral and personal sanctions, coreper and our ambassadors have been working hard last night they are continuing this morning as well, and i hope that before the end of this house we can have an agreement from the council approving the joint proposal put forward by the commission, which the president will no doubt elaborate. i would like to thank the commission president and all my colleagues for the effort and leadership they have shown in continuing to prepare, propose and debate proposals for sectoral sanctions alongside personal ones. this further limits russia's export capacity and the imports it can receive to keep its industry alive, especially in its technological dimension, and thus fuel the war. it is clear that we are liberating ourselves from energy dependence on russia. in august last year we imported 12 billion cubic metres. this year we imported in august only four, a division by three. in fact, russian imports have fallen in the thirty-six weeks of this year by fifty-four billion cubic metres. it is an extraordinary thing that will lead us to liberate ourselves from the energy dependence on russia, which was a great conditioner of our foreign policy towards russia and, consequently, of our foreign policy, which included ukraine. in fact, we have not had a foreign policy towards ukraine, because it was subsidiary to our policy towards russia, and russia was, in turn, subsidiary to our energy dependence - and was conditioned by it. we will now have a clear policy on ukraine, which is dominated by the will and desire for ukraine to be a member of the european union. a policy with a clear objective, which will be possible because we will no longer suffer from this dependence on russia. the war continues and the news from the battlefield is good for ukraine. ukraine is back on the offensive. the war has entered a new phase, a dangerous phase, no doubt, because we are facing a fearful scenario to which we must not close our eyes. it's the stage for a conventional war involving a nuclear power. a nuclear power that is currently backing down in the conventional scenario and threatening to use nuclear weapons. it is a worrying scenario indeed in which we have to show that our support for ukraine is not wavering. ukraine is advancing on three fronts: on the dombas, after having taken lyman, in the south central, south of zaporiyia, advancing towards mariupol, and finally in kherson. russia continues to have the superiority in numbers and the superiority in weapons. and so, the ukrainian forces are developing an extraordinarily agile combat tactic, using very powerful intelligence, surrounding the russian strongholds, creating pockets that are eventually destroyed by the russian army's own withdrawal. so they limit their losses and advance the field in ways no one could have foreseen. the situation of the russian army is very bad, among other things because the russian soldiers do not know what this war is for. and the 300,000 who will be taken from their homes to the front will understand even less. so, the war can be won on the battlefield, but it must be won above all on the field of ideas. because, besides the war itself, there is another war: the war for the supremacy of values. russia is developing an intense campaign in the world to explain that the consequences of this war do not derive from the war, but from the sanctions that we have applied against russia. that battle must be fought in the discussion with our colleagues around the world to continue to isolate russia. recently, it happened again, an international body of great importance, the international civil aviation organization. and that battle must be fought continuously and permanently, because there is a lot of feeling in the world about the causes of this war and, above all, its consequences. and the consequences for many countries are certainly bad in terms of prices, energy and food. we have to engage very much with the rest of the world to help them overcome the consequences of this war. we have to make a great diplomatic effort of explanation so that the world understands why this war is and how it can end. the war cannot end because of the fatigue of the western world, which is what putin expects. putin believes that democracies are weak, that systems of public opinion will not withstand a cold winter. he's waiting for the arrival of general winter, who has always ultimately saved the russian army. he is hoping that the cold, the cuts in gas supplies, the high prices and low temperatures will undermine our willingness to continue supporting ukraine. and this is the place to ask europeans to understand what's at stake. because our support for ukraine is not just a matter of generosity. our support for ukraine must be unwavering, because ukraine's security is intrinsically linked to ours. what is decided there is also our future. (applause) yes, ladies and gentlemen, what is being decided there is also our future. that is why it is so important to get russia to give up its old imperial ambitions, as we have done in europe. this war can only end in a way that ensures peace. and to secure peace, it requires that ukraine regain its territorial integrity and full sovereignty; that russia shoulder its political and moral responsibilities in the war and pay for reconstruction; and that accountability be demanded for the human crimes that have occurred there. this, and no other, must be our objective. and that's the reason for the sanctions, and the military aid and the diplomatic action. we must continue to work on these three fronts without giving up; this is no time to hesitate. the european society must be able to continue this struggle, supporting ukraine with the procedures at our disposal. today the president of the commission will present in detail the sanctions which the council is going to approve. but, beyond the concrete sanctions, what is really important is that europeans understand that if there is a price to pay, it is worth it, because if we do not pay it we will end up paying a much higher price. it is a battle for the freedom of the ukrainians and for our own freedom; the effort we have to make will be recorded in the pages of history as a moment when the european union, united, was able to resist the aggression of a way of life and political organization radically different and opposed to ours. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. – madam president, dear roberta, minister, hr/vp, dear josep, honourable members, it’s just four weeks ago that we met here in the hemicycle for the state of the union. but in those four weeks, the kremlin has escalated its aggression to a new level. putin has launched russia’s first mobilisation since world war ii, treating hundreds of thousands of young russians as cannon fodder. he uses sham referenda in an illegal attempt to change international borders by force. and since many months, he is using energy as a weapon. now, of course, we feel that the russian war causes economic and social hardship and it places a heavy burden on our citizens and on the economy in our single market. we see in particular the rising energy prices and gas and electricity prices that are leading to reduced purchasing power, and they are leading to a loss of competitiveness for our business in the international market. but our resilience in all these difficult times is remarkable. and what we have to do is work steadily on our resilience, mainly on the field of energy. and that’s where i want to focus today. if you look at the course of the last seven months together with our member states, we have already taken important steps. we have diminished our gas consumption by around 10%. that’s good. it’s not enough. we have to do more, but it’s a big step forward. i want to give you two figures where the russian supplies of gas are concerned. at the beginning of the war, if you look at all the imports of gas, the russian share was 41%. within seven months we have gone down to 7.5%. that’s good. and we have compensated this decrease in russian supplies by a massive increase by our trusted suppliers, for example, the united states, for example, norway. let’s look at gas storage. this is almost at 90% by now. this is 15% higher than on the same day last year. three weeks ago in this hemicycle, i announced that we will skim the exceptional profits that electricity producing companies have these days to make them available for member states to support vulnerable citizens and businesses. now, last week already we have enshrined that in law, eu law. we achieved that in lightning speed and i really want to thank the czech presidency for this outstanding deliverable in really a very, very short time. and yesterday the council reached agreement on repowereu. so, we will have key instruments in place to make it through the winter – that’s storage and saving – to jointly purchase gas. this is our platform to get rid of the grip the russians have on us through their fossil fuels, these are our agreements with other friends. to redistribute the windfall profits to support those in need and to invest in the future of a sustainable energy supply, and that is repowereu. the measures we have put in place provide us with a first buffer of protection. and, thanks to these, we can and we will now step up to the next level. i will lay out a road map in a letter to leaders in view of our meeting in prague in two days this week. and i want to discuss with you first-hand the key components of this letter. of course, it’s all about energy prices. so, we will step up our negotiations with trusted partners, for example, with norway, to dampen the price we pay for gas imports. the talks have already started. i think as a european union, we have a considerable market power and many of our suppliers want to conclude deals with us which are beneficial for both sides. so i really think it is necessary that we come to an agreed corridor of prices to stop this crazy peaks we have partially in the import of gas prices. we will strengthen our energy platform. and let me be very clear: it is in our collective interest. after the winter, we will have to refill the gas storages and if we then see that we have again a scenario where member states are outbidding each other on the global market and thus raising the prices here in the european union, this is not sustainable. so we have to have a joint procurement of all member states. this is much better than the way we have it. my next point is on gas prices. as you know, we use gas in three different domains: for industry, for heating and for the production of electricity. let me start with the electricity. our market for electricity is built in a way that high gas prices are driving electricity prices. we have now to limit this inflationary impact of gas on electricity, and everywhere in europe. this is why we are ready to discuss a cap on the price of gas that is used to generate electricity. this cap would also be a first step on the way to a structural reform and overall reform of our electricity market. but i think we also have to have a look at gas prices beyond the electricity market. so, where industry is concerned, where heating is also concerned, the general approach of gas, and here we will work together with member states to reduce gas prices and to limit volatility, and thus to limit the impact of price manipulation by russia. because if you look at the fever curve of gas and gas prices, the whole gas price, you can see the manipulation that russia has on the gas prices, and this has to stop. we have already offered this mechanism in march. at that time, we have said that it can give an important signal that the eu will not pay any price for gas any more. we have qualified such a price cap as having an immediate impact on price levels, but that it entails drawbacks in terms of security of supply. this is still true today. so it’s a fine line to walk. it’s not trivial to do that. but the situation since march has critically evolved since then. and today, compared to march, more member states are open for it and we are better prepared. such a cap on gas prices must be designed properly to ensure security of supply. and it is a temporary solution to cater for the fact that the ttf, that is our main price benchmark, is no longer representative for our market. this ttf benchmark reflects or mirrors a lot pipeline gas. but in the last seven months, because we wanted to get rid of the dependency on russian gas, we have increased a lot the lng market and this lng market is not properly reflected in the ttf. so, introducing a cap on gas overall is a temporary solution until we will have a new eu price index developed that ensures a better functioning of the market. and the commission has already started to work on this. honourable members, these are far-reaching measures and i wholeheartedly agree with you when you say in the resolution you will vote on today that exceptional times require exceptional measures where the union needs to act as jointly and as united as ever. in pursuing our action, two things remain paramount: that is action in unity and action in solidarity. if i look at our single market, we really need to protect the fundamentals of our economy and, in particular, our single market. the single market is the strength of our european union, and this is where the wealth of the european union comes from. without a common european solution we risk fragmentation. if every member state goes on its own, we have fragmentation we don’t want, and we have to do something against it. and, therefore, it is so paramount that we preserve a level playing field within the european union and our single market. every member state is benefiting from it. as i said, the wealth comes from our single market. now, what does that mean? with repowereu we have developed a crucial instrument to accelerate the transition in the energy independence. that’s what we’re working on since seven months and repowereu will allow, it’s the governance structure, it will allow the investment in infrastructure, for example, pipelines, for example, interconnectors, for example, renewables. but it also allows – and that’s important – to support businesses or households to invest in energy efficiency, for example, insulating houses or installing heat pumps or installing new technology for the companies, the businesses that have to do the transition. now, here’s my proposal: i think we should further boost repowereu with additional funding, common european funding. this way, all european states can accelerate the necessary investment, all european member states. we modernise our infrastructure, the energy infrastructure. we preserve the level playing field and we secure our european competitiveness on the global market. so we have to do this investment. we have to do this funding together as europeans, jointly, with a common solution. and, honourable members, allow me to speak about another pressing issue which we have to address today. the acts of sabotage against nord stream pipelines have shown how vulnerable our energy infrastructure is. for the first time in recent history, it has become a target. pipelines and underwater cables connect european citizens and companies to the world. they are the lifeline of data and energy. it is in the interests of all europeans to better protect this critical infrastructure. and for this, i will present a five-point plan. first, we must be better prepared. we have very recently agreed new legislation – that’s good – which will strengthen the resilience of critical eu entities. the responsible parliament committee will be voting on it next week. that’s good too. so we are absolutely on time and i think we can, and we should, already now be working on this basis. second, we need to stress-test our infrastructure. we don’t have to wait till something happens, but we need to make sure that we are prepared and therefore we need those stress tests. we need to identify whether we have weak points and where these weak points are. and of course, we have to prepare our reaction to sudden disruption. what are we doing then? are all the information chains in place? is everybody informed? does this emergency scenario really work then in our single market? we will work with member states to ensure effective stress tests in the energy sector. and this then should be followed by other high-risk sectors, such as the offshore digital and the electricity infrastructure. my third point, we will increase our capacity to respond through our civil protection mechanism well known to you in the european union. with this, we can support member states in addressing the disruption of critical infrastructure, for example, with fuel, with generators, with necessary shelter capacity. my fourth point, we will make best use of our satellite surveillance capacity. we have these satellites in place. we have the capacity to do the surveillance to detect potential threats. so, this is also a matter of prevention and awareness. and finally, we will strengthen our cooperation with nato and with key partners like the united states on this critical issue. honourable members, this war has entered in a new phase. the ukrainian army keeps reporting impressive successes in its fight against the aggressor. we all saw the images of deeply relieved people welcoming ukrainian soldiers. and i could see with my own eyes when i was three weeks ago in kyiv that life has come back to kyiv. of course, it is the bravery of the ukrainian people that made it possible. but i think europe’s contribution also has made a huge difference. and now it’s the time to keep track to help the ukrainians to face down the invader. a strong and steadfast europe, that will be the only way to stop putin. this is the moment to stay the course and to signal again to our ukrainian friends, we stay by your side as long as it takes. thank you and long live europe. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, madam president of the commission, high representative, minister, dear colleagues, more than 220 days have passed since putin started his invasion in ukraine on 24 february – more than 220 days of tremendous suffering, bloodshed and destruction of ukraine, people and the whole country. by the end of last month, we have seen 13 million people fleeing ukraine, crossing the borders to neighbouring countries. six thousand ukrainians have died. three hundred and seventy—nine children have lost their lives in the russian war. putin is a war criminal and, like all war criminals, he doesn’t stop. but not weapons or money are winning a war – people, the will of people, the determination of people, and most of all of free people defending their freedom, are winning a war. as europeans, we can only admire what the ukraine troops are doing every day in lyman, in kherson. congratulations to president zelensky and the ukraine troops – you’re great. obviously, even among the autocrats of this world, russia is losing ground. we saw this in samarkand, where even the prime minister of india, modi, said publicly it’s not the right moment to go to war. fake referenda in occupied ukraine territories, mobilising now 300 000 russian reservists and threatening to use nuclear weapons. this is obviously a signal of weakness. so the ukrainians are doing their job. and europe? first of all, the upcoming winter is a big test for us and we have to win it. first of all, we have to be strong against the populists inside the european union. just look at marine le pen. in the presidential election race this year, she proposed to seek an alliance with russia without fear of us sanctions. back in 2014, the front national found no better supporter than russian banks to finance its campaign. anyone, dear friends, who loves his country would never ask for money from putin. that is what le pen is doing. dear colleagues, in spain, just after the start of the war, podemos stated that the heart of the ukraine conflict lies in the nato policy of enlargement towards eastern europe – unbelievable lies! or in slovakia, the former president and party leader robert fico from the smer party described the war as a conflict between the united states and russia. he called the strengthening of nato forces in slovakia by german soldiers ‘the welcoming of the wehrmacht in our country’. that is the wording of leaders in europe of today. and these populists, dear friends, have only one idea. they have the idea to weaken europe and we have to stand up to defend europe. now, more than ever, it is time to show that we are standing together, and the epp will never accept to rewrite the history. our epp parties in finland and sweden, for example, fought always, argued always, for nato membership. only recently, the socialists changed their mind and also supported the nato membership of sweden and finland. nato defends freedom and peace and security in europe and putin wants to destroy our europe. that’s why, again, we have to show unity. at the same time, putin’s threats must not determine our actions. that’s why we have to support our ukrainian friends more than ever before. now, more than ever before, it’s time for european leadership. without weapons from the west, putin would have won long ago already. ukraine urgently needs more weapons, including tanks – and dare i ask france and germany to lead europe and to present a proposal to deliver all the tanks? we support another action, a package of sanctions and financial assistance to ukraine. if we want this war to end, we need actions but not any more excuses. europe needs leadership. now, more than ever before, it’s time for this winter of solidarity. on friday, the european council must find a common understanding on energy solidarity, and madam commission president we fully support your initiatives in this field. a continuation of uncertainty costs each and every european currency. uncertainty is driving speculation on the market. so we need a binding solidarity mechanism. we need common procurement, and we need a price cap as proposed by the commission, and we need this now, this clarity. let me also add that on thursday we have this first meeting of the political union. president erdoğan will be there, and let me also underline that we should not forget next to the ukraine war that we have other challenges in our neighbourhood. i think that someone who is not practising our solidarity with ukraine in the same way, who is not implementing the same sanctions in a way like we do as europeans, cannot have candidate status for the european union, cannot be a reliable partner for us. that’s why i hope that we also have a clear wording towards president erdoğan that he has to show his european commitment. with putin escalating the war, it is now, even more, time to firmly stand by ukraine. we as the epp always did so, and we always will do so – now more than ever before. without a free ukraine, there will be not a fully free europe.
in the name of the s&d group, madam president, madam president von der leyen, mr high representative, mr minister, in the last few days the world has witnessed yet another episode of reckless and foolish actions by putin: russian military mobilization, false referendums on annexation and dangerous rhetoric on the use of nuclear weapons. but for the first time, serious and worrying events have taken place outside ukraine: i am referring to the sabotage of energy infrastructure in the baltic. the world is watching with fear and concern this escalation. also, last week, a civilian convoy was attacked by russian forces near zaporiyia with fatalities and injuries. ladies and gentlemen, beyond putin's daily staging, this is the reality of his war machine. this is an illegal and cruel war against the innocent people of ukraine. civilians losing their lives, civilians displaced, civilians who have left their homes to flee the atrocity. putin's annexation last week is illegitimate and a clear violation of the united nations charter. changing ukraine's borders by force and annexing territories it doesn't even control is pure propaganda. these actions project what putin is: a desperate man, whose leadership and authority is increasingly in doubt. in the face of this dangerous escalation, we must support ukraine and its citizens more. we must strengthen our support to contain russia's illegal actions and we must increase the pressure with additional sanctions to end this war. do you know what it's for? to finally get putin where he belongs: the hague court of justice. that's why we must maintain unity in our response. that is why we must isolate as much as possible those european leaders who are flirting with putin. because there are, of course there are. my in-laws are very worried. we know of orbán's isolated position on sanctions against russia. but trying to forge alliances with meloni is really a problem that can take us all to a worrying drift. we know about the cooperation agreement between the league of salvini and putin and we are concerned about berlusconi's alarming statements when he claims that putin tried to replace zelenskiy "with good and decent people". that is what mr berlusconi said. is this what we should expect from the new italian government? what are our colleagues in the european people's party going to do about it? because putin will continue his intentions to divide us, and the more threats we need more unity in our political action. mr weber, we need political responsibility at this time and to understand that the real alliance must be with those who defend european values. i understand that, at this moment, in this situation, you have a hard time understanding reality. but there are many people out there who are genuinely concerned about what is happening and, regardless of the electoral tactics of some, we must stand in the way of those who defend the european project. there are those who haven't moved from the beginning. we are still defending europe, defending european values. i'm reaching out to you to get back on that path.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, president of the commission, high representative, ministers, dear colleagues, it’s probably time to end our empty insignificant disagreements and to focus on real things, on things which shape the present world and our future. putin, who claims to be the ruler of the world, wanted to conquer ukraine and enslave its people in three days. not only has this failed, but it has turned into a continuation of the atrocious crimes against humanity and the shameful defeats incurred by the russian aggressor. realising his impotence in the face of a heroic ukraine, its resistance and nationwide mobilisation, putin has resorted to the tool of annexation of temporarily occupied ukrainian territories in order to create a situation of permanent war. it is as a state of terrorism acts in today’s politics, and that is what i call the russian state, which supports and implements a policy of terrorism. the civilized world must respond to russia’s colonial war aggression with even stronger sanctions and increased support for ukraine. russian policy also demonstrates a turning point from adherence to the international law-based order. to the outside world, it became opportunistic and unpredictable and, domestically, it resulted in a deep moral and social degradation of the russian state. it is high time to realise that our trade, western trade, and our economic relations with the russian aggressor is not an option. it must discontinue. in these extraordinary circumstances, ukraine needs security guarantees now, not in the distant future. now is the time for ukraine when its fate is being decided and the well-being of the ukrainian people is at stake. it is a time when european security is being challenged and to be decided for next decades. nato membership for ukraine is the solution and we need to reap its benefits now as soon as possible through additional formats of cooperation and partnerships. long live europe and slava ukraini!
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry that i have to waste my time again in replying to those who are exploiting politics at such a delicate time. but i would remind the socialist group that we do not accept moral lessons from the winkers in europe and beyond to the worst of the far-left regimes. we do not accept moral lessons on russia from those who still have in their ranks russia's biggest lobbyist, former chancellor schröder. and we do not accept lessons from those who still in europe turn a blind eye to the violations of certain governments simply because they are supported by socialist parties. accept the democratic result of the elections in italy and forget that italy, even with this government, is not a protagonist in the positive construction of europe and in support for ukraine. i have listened carefully to the speeches by president von der leyen and the high representative, but we are very concerned. looks like the history stick has been turned back. in these six or seven months, in february, we have unfortunately again been confronted with a war within europe which has brought us back to what happened 70 years ago, more than 70 years ago: a disaster of history. and today, in the face of escalation, the nuclear threat, the threat of a cold war between nuclear powers, which we had hoped to have left behind, is coming back with force. and europe must, in this respect too, show unity, as it has done in recent months, to prevent this threat from becoming a reality. the high representative spoke about the new sanctions package and i believe that the european institutions have shown the unity, leadership, pragmatism and realism that is needed in this regard in recent months, and we must therefore ensure that there is continued strong support for these measures. but, as i have said in my previous speeches, mr president, it is also necessary today for europe to put in place measures to support businesses and households. if we want to maintain strong support, including from our own people, for the ukrainian people in fighting this war, we need the burden of these measures not to fall on the citizens. i regret to say that i do not share your optimism that we will have a relatively calm winter, that we have all the means to make it through this winter unscathed. unfortunately, the reality of the facts appears to be different. we are calling for concrete support measures and i make an appeal. i'm glad to hear that the price cap is probably going to go through. we know how difficult it is to reach an agreement, we know that it will not be easy to impose a price cap on imports from russia, but in these months people have been asking themselves a question. as western allies we have shown great unity, we have supported nato, the european union has supported nato in the measures, but we do not see that the allies have shared the burden of these measures. we know that europe is suffering, we know that the allies have supported us in increasing gas supplies, energy supplies to the european union, but we expect that from allies with whom we have shared a strong path there will also be support, strong help for europe. today norway, the united states, canada, all nato countries, earn six or seven times as much from the supplies they send to europe. it would be good if the european union could encourage these allies to consider them a price cap and to provide all the necessary support in these difficult months, in these critical months, even if it means reducing its profit margins a little, so that europe can continue to strongly support the approach of the west and nato towards ukraine.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, high representative / vice— president, thanks to the fantastic resistance of the ukrainian army and people and facing humiliating defeat in his war waged against ukraine, vladimir putin and the russian institutions committed a series of fatal mistakes, but he also renewed his nuclear threats against the collective west, not only against ukraine. my appeal here from this chamber to the western media and to individual politicians is to refrain from playing putin’s game, from repeating his threat of nuclear war. the proper action to be taken within the collective west is to revise the nuclear deterrence schemes and make putin and russian elites sure that any strike against ukraine, ukraine’s neighbours or any ally and eu member state as well is to be fatal for him and his country. there is no place in a contemporary world for this kind of state terrorism.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. this war must be ended as soon as possible. russia's illegal annexation of parts of ukraine, partial mobilisation and threats to use nuclear weapons have contributed to a massive escalation of the conflict. putin is lighting and playing with the fire in which many more innocent people will find their deaths if this bloody war is not stopped as soon as possible. that is why we demand an end to the russian war of aggression and the withdrawal of russian troops from ukraine. and yes, targeted sanctions against the power and military apparatus are right and are having an effect. but, mrs von der leyen, i was recently in schwedt, i met the people there, i spoke at a rally in front of hundreds of people, and the people in this region are afraid. the people of this region are frustrated because here - in this house and in your house too - political decisions have been taken which have not taken into account the future of the industrial sites, which have not taken into account the future of the people of the region, but which put them in front of the facts and plunge them into existential hardship. if we want a future and if we want peace, we must now also give our word to diplomacy. when one hears what has come here today - also from the commission - or what representatives of individual governments, including germany, are saying, i wonder if anyone here is seriously interested in diplomacy and negotiations, in other words in an immediate end to this war. apart from further arms deliveries, apart from further sanctions, nobody seems to be thinking of anything here. the pope himself, a few days ago, called on the politicians to engage in dialogue to put an end to this war. and european politics too has the duty not to continue to spiral into escalation but to contribute, at last, by means of strong peace initiatives, to putting an end to this miserable war. of course we are in solidarity with ukraine and of course we are in solidarity with the suffering population. and as much as this attack, this russian attack, is burdening the country, all diplomatic channels should be kept open. yes, putin is a terrible warmonger. but the russian people cannot be held responsible for this. our solidarity must extend to those russians who oppose the war. partial mobility has led to a mass exodus of young russians, some of whom now face closed eu borders. the eu must not turn its back on those who are actively working against war and for peace. open the borders for deserters and conscientious objectors!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in this systemic conflict between our peace-loving democracies and a war-loving dictatorship, we have seen in recent weeks a renewed escalation on the part of the deeply fascist aggressor: mobilization, especially in areas with national minorities, and a vote-making farce to create the impression that here a ukrainian population was just waiting to be brought into the reich. the post-kiev façade of false legitimacy is collapsing, for all to see. the european union must now make ukraine winter-proof - economically, humanitarianally, socially and, above all, by stabilising arms supplies. yes, i'm afraid it is necessary. i would like to see the american lend-lease act in europe, at least in some member states. this would speed up arms deliveries because it would eliminate the need for individual approvals. i hope that germany and france will finally make their contribution to uniting europe on this issue by finally making a comparable contribution to arms supplies, as many eastern member states are already doing. no more going it alone. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the union. chancellor scholz, you have to do the right thing. as a hamburger, take the example of helmut schmidt. he did the right thing, enforcing the nato double-barreled resolution against his own party. you did the right thing. he's earned his place in history. don't be afraid of your party. authorise the supply of weapons to the marders and leopards. history will prove you right.
madam president, putin’s regime has continually violated international law since the very beginning of russia’s latest aggression against ukraine, but actually, since long before that – remember crimea? the sham referendums that took place in four ukrainian regions two weeks ago constitute yet further mockery of international law and democratic principles. these so-called referendums, which happen in military—occupied territories with a brutal war of aggression ongoing and with forced displacements of population, were simply a pretext for the illegal and violent annexation of ukrainian territories. they were nothing but another of putin’s failed attempts to feign legitimacy for a criminal aggression. make no mistake: this has got nothing to do with the democratic right to self-determination, which is an honourable right that has to be upheld. these fake referendums are not acts of self-determination. they are an act of external determination. the free will of the people cannot be expressed at gunpoint. borders should never be changed by the use of force. we shall continue to stand firmly with the people of ukraine, imposing more sanctions on those who fuel and sustain the aggression and blatantly disregard basic principles of democracy and international law.
madam president, commissioner, ‘we should have listened to poland’, ursula von der leyen mentioned in the state of the union address. poland was warning you not only about the imperial aggressive plans of russia, we were warning also that your instrument to challenge the threats are inaccurate – the strategic compass, european autonomy – these are inaccurate to face the russian threats. our recipe was to stick to nato and transatlantic relations, and who is now helping ukraine to defend themselves and us europeans? it’s the us, uk and poland – the country sanctioning and penalising. how will you face the challenge of further escalation? cooperation with nato and us is a good direction. however, how we will have ukraine back on key terms? will the eu release funds of eur 3 billion out of nine promised? will you force european countries to send more weapons? will you stop penalising poland, which is helping ukraine the most in political, military and humanitarian way?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what we need now more than ever is a strong, cohesive, united europe, which makes common choices to defend the rule of law, to defend the independence of ukraine, to prevent totalitarianism from prevailing over democracies all over the world. that is why we need a credible europe also in energy policy. we have always fought for a roof over our heads at the price of gas. we cannot give the russian federation a division that will put families and businesses in difficulty. that is why we must also combat speculation on the price of gas by monitoring what happens on the amsterdam stock exchange. in short, a politically strong europe. i would like to say, madam president, that i have fought for this politically strong europe for the last 28 years of my life. this is my last speech in this house and i want to confirm our commitment to a political europe, to a stronger parliament with legislative initiative, so that in the years to come we can all continue to be proud citizens of europe. i thank all of you, starting with you, madam president, and i thank all my colleagues in my political group and those in the other political groups. i have always tried to be objective, even as president of parliament. i am sorry if i have made mistakes, but i have always tried to respect all members of parliament, whatever their political affiliation. thank you again. i also thank all the officials and interpreters for what they have done to allow us to express ourselves in our mother tongue. thank you all. i will continue to fight my battles in the italian parliament for a stronger political europe.
thank you, mr president. good luck with that.
madam president! russia's escalation in response to its spectacular setbacks comes as no surprise to any observant of vladimir putin's policies. through a sham referendum, panic mobilization, or the terrorizing of europe with nuclear attacks, russia hopes to preserve the remnants of a specifically conceived power and at least part of the seized sovereign territories of ukraine. but the effect is the opposite of what was intended. even russia's closest allies are distancing themselves from it, and the rest of the world is viewing it as a rogue state or even a terrorist state. as europeans, we have lived for decades in the shadow of the threat of a nuclear apocalypse. we will not be forced to live in fear again. we must continue to support ukraine in its struggle through arms supplies and economic aid. further sanctions against the criminal regime are also needed, as well as the final seizure of control of russian assets worldwide for the reconstruction of ukraine. our weapon here is unity and cooperation, including the transatlantic one. it is worth noting here that despite the images from bucha and izium and many other places, there are still those among us in europe who do not see the real enemy in moscow, brussels or washington. finally, we must reach out to the russians, whose daily lives are now set to the rhythm of the famous song "you're in the army now" and the increasingly empty shelves in the stores. you can't have a criminal's dream for dinner. there's really no point in dying for a fallen empire, either. ukraine, may the force be with you.
mr president, i say to mr putin: all you have achieved with your bogus annexations is that ukraine will no longer negotiate with you. your situation is very precarious. you can no longer win, but you still have some room for manoeuvre. a previous ruler of russia, nicholas ii, also attacked what was perceived as a weaker adversary, japan, in 1904 and also lost both on land and at sea. he concluded a peace, instituted internal reforms and gained himself 12 more years in power. mr putin, you probably won’t do it because you’re more of an egomaniac than a patriot, and you’ll probably end up in some bunker. steiner will not come and you will go down. the choice is yours.
mr. president, i have to ask you... it has been 224 days since the war began, claiming thousands of lives, including civilians and children, and forcing more than 10 million people to flee their homes. the fidesz group in the european parliament has condemned and continues to condemn russian aggression, the annexation of ukrainian territories and war crimes. we have stood with ukraine from the beginning, supporting ukraine's territorial integrity and rejecting the results of russia's sham referendums. in the largest humanitarian aid program in hungary's history, we have already taken in over a million refugees from ukraine. we are interested in the earliest possible peace based on respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. it's the only way to end the suffering of war. it's the only thing that can stop this madness. however, it is unworthy and unacceptable to link a strong and united political stance on ukraine, solidarity with the ukrainian people, with the highly controversial and divisive and contradictory practical issue of immediate and comprehensive energy sanctions against russia.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. i had the opportunity last week to be in kiev, the capital of ukraine, for our parliament and to hold many talks. my working visit coincided with the day on which putin announced the annexation of further ukrainian territories. with this unacceptable historical wrong and his irresponsible, disturbing decisions, the illegal sham referendums, the nuclear threat and the mobilisation, putin keeps turning the screw of escalation. i am very impressed by the collective will, determination and perseverance of the ukrainian people. that is why i support the tightening of sanctions. i support the package of measures presented by the commission and i support the measures presented by the president of the commission today to reorganise the energy market and to set up a new pricing mechanism.
mr president, russia continues its centuries-long tradition of conquering new lands and other nations. it neglects the fact that it is a brutal breach of international law. being an economic dwarf feeling that in the future its main sources of wealth will lose much of their present significance, it wants to strengthen its international position with use of force. having little to say in scientific and technological competition, russian leaders, supported by many ordinary people, want other nations to feel fear. then there is a personal obsession of their leader who would like very much to rebuild something similar to the soviet union. aggression against ukraine is a step in this direction. this is a major violation of law. aggressors are responsible for a terrible number of killed people, demolished cities and villages, bombarded infrastructure. to hide compromising battle failures, they decided to officially steal part of ukraine and threaten the rest of the world with the use of nuclear arms. we all, not only europeans, must understand that this is equal to the final termination of life on earth. giving up is not an option. it will not stop russia. the only thing we can and should do is to support the victim, ukraine, as much as possible and as much as needed to defeat an aggressor and to show that we are able to defend life, law and liberty.
in writing. poland has been warning the european union and the world about the growing threat from russia for many years. she was drawing attention to the tragic consequences of becoming dependent on the supply of strategic raw materials from that country. this voice was not heard when the nord stream pipeline was built, later nord stream 2. unfortunately, the voice of the people, who have learned the hard way what russian imperialism is capable of, is still not being heard. moreover, poland is being penalized at every possible opportunity, even though it has supported the fighting ukraine since the first day of this criminal aggression. europe's countries should learn from their past as soon as possible. to stop doing business with an aggressor who spreads terror and murders civilians. the more russia's military failures, the more it escalates its murderous attacks on civilians. it is high time that the countries of western europe came to their senses, at least to be wise after the damage, if they have not shown this prudence before. no sanction for the crimes of russia. no business with criminals!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! this is a very important debate, as has already been said here, and i hope that it is sincere and that we really want to fight effectively against putin's propaganda and the destruction of what is most precious: the unity and solidarity of the european union. because today, in the face of the war in ukraine, we should be united and we should be in solidarity. one element of this is the fight against misinformation and propaganda. but, ladies and gentlemen, in order to do this effectively and truly honestly, we need to answer a few questions, also here in this house, because putin has been destabilising the situation in the european union for a long time and this has been allowed. and there were decisions that were made here as well, that allowed him to do such things, for example, on energy policy, allowing the construction of nord stream 1, then nord stream 2, allowing the destabilization of the entire energy system and the economy of the european union. and these decisions were also made here, and the european union countries, the european union governments supported these actions. i'm not saying this to throw it all away, but i'm saying this so that we can reflect and talk honestly with each other. because how can we understand the words of a prominent politician of the civic platform, a member of the epp, who was also a former foreign minister in the polish government - we were talking about this a moment ago - if he tweets things that are exactly the elements working for putin and there is no reaction from his political group? how can we understand the calls of the french president who, while ukraine was bleeding and bleeding, was constantly in dialogue with putin? how to understand many other decisions of politicians who did not want to support very firmly and strongly immediately - despite the appeals of, for example, the polish government - ukraine, to send weapons to ukraine? so if we're talking about it's time to end this pro-putin policy, let's be really honest and effective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer underestimate the effects of putin's propaganda, because it is a weapon, a real weapon, designed to weaken our unity, our resilience, undermine our values, undermine what is our collective security. already during the pandemic, we saw how russia used the health crisis to spread chaos and misinformation, and the aggression in ukraine finally brought the weight of propaganda in the context of hybrid warfare to the attention of the whole world. a weapon used to divide us, through which the kremlin seeks to manipulate the atrocities committed, deny the principles on which our international community is founded and exploit, for example, the energy crisis. then turning the other way is not an option. this parliament will not do so, as it has repeatedly stressed the need for action. it has done so through the valuable work of colleagues in the inge committee, but we must do more. we must devise a common strategy to meet the challenges of the present. we need to start an information programme, to monitor more effectively, for example, the content that is being disseminated online.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear ministers, president putin is not just slowly militarily losing on the battlefield in europe, he’s also losing the information war against the eu. the eu has put forward, to his disadvantage, the digital services act, the code of practice, dozens of initiatives on media literacy, on free journalism, and we’re even tackling the political party financing, which is a huge problem, as we’ve just seen on the far right and far left side of this house. mouthpieces of beijing and moscow speak freely here. but i’m glad that the reasonable part of this house has put forward the initiatives to tackle just that. we shouldn’t underestimate, however, how russian disinformation and propaganda is playing out in the rest of the world. out there, populous countries in the global south – in asia, africa, latin america – are slowly gaining sympathy for a tyrant murdering, raping, stealing. troll farms are enabling that thinking. russia – and others like china – are aiming at two thirds of the world’s population, and so should the eu, by countering those efforts. the next phase of our joint and evolving effort against disinformation, dear colleagues, should be exactly that: countering disinformation, extending our efforts to the rest of the world in the global south.
mr. chairman, please! russia has spent over $300 million since 2014 to influence politicians and government in over 20 countries. i would like to draw your attention to one of these countries and a shocking example of the kremlin's cash-draining. i am referring to the german state of mecklenburg-vorpommern, which launched the climate and environmental protection foundation in early 2021. the organisation was tasked with carrying out the work on the completion of the nord stream 2 gas pipeline project, which was already nearing completion. for this purpose, it received from gazprom a total of eur 192 million. the last shipments were made just four months before russia invaded ukraine. they've reached 80 service providers. the foundation bought and stored components for the pipeline, protecting suppliers from u.s. sanctions. it was financed by the land and nord stream 2. so when mr. verhofstadt, from this place, talks about the alleged cheerleaders in italy and calls for the overthrow of the democratically elected italian government, i would like to ask why you do not mention other cheerleaders, such as chancellor angela merkel, chancellor schröder, chancellor of austria, prime minister of france... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! putin was already at war before february 24th. not only crimean, but also informational. he attacked the union. he explained that the ukrainians were not a real people. and his army of internet trolls discouraged us and our democratic values. unfortunately, there are people in europe, sometimes even in this room, who have been instrumental in creating this war. russia's attack on ukraine has not brought full sober to these useful to the kremlin idiots. marine le pen, who posed for photos with putin, criticized the european union for imposing too ambitious sanctions. anti-ukrainian statements by polish politician grzegorz braun were used in a propaganda program on russian television. often, radicals organize marches where pro-russian slogans have secured prime time in russian propaganda. these are just examples. any idiotic attack on the union, sanctions or ukraine should be seen as supporting putin. it is time for the commission to come up with a package of concrete solutions to win this cyber war. referring to the album of one of putin's current supporters, roger waters of the legendary band pink floyd, i don't know if people like him, the polish confederation, or marine le pen are on the dark side of the moon. but they certainly are making their mark on the darkest pages of european history.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen, you're looking for putin's friends on the right, as usual. i suggest we look in the mirror first. how did putin justify the possibility of using nuclear weapons in his last speech? you know what? well, he said the united states attacked nord stream. how did he know that? he knew from your deputy radosław sikorski. what did you do about it? moreover, the most ridiculous thing is how the left is looking everywhere for putin's associates, and it has gerhard schröder and three polish communist heretics in its ranks, who, on behalf of moscow, organized in our country an apparatus of repression against citizens. you should do a self-examination of conscience, because quite recently the majority of the parliament voted, in the dispute poland against lukashenka and putin, a resolution in which you stood directly on the side of lukashenka and putin when the polish borders were attacked. moreover, you say that the crisis, the war and the inflation were caused by the pride and the failure to listen to poland and the baltic states. that's great. what's the recipe you're suggesting right now? so you propose more of what was, that is to say, the abolition of the veto, more powers for germany and the eurocrats. this has to end badly. moreover, ask yourself who is it that benefits now that you have imposed more sanctions on poland than on russia? because, minus the money that poland owes, that's what it is. who 's in it ? more than that, you want to be seen as a moral empire. i'm the one who has a proposition for you. then let germany first settle its crimes and pay reparations to poland. because putin is watching you very closely and he thinks, i can level ukraine to the ground and i'll never pay for it. why would you do that? and because if anyone asks, i'll say i'm doing exactly the same thing as the germans. that the past doesn't matter anymore. let's talk about the future. that's all that matters today. what's the matter? and who is the russian onucus?
madam president! it was mentioned here that this debate is being heard today by the citizens of beautiful european countries such as romania and bulgaria. i would like to address these citizens. ladies and gentlemen! you are europeans and sooner or later you will be in the schengen area. i really don't care about stupid, stupid, insulting speeches like the ones that have taken place in this house. romania, bulgaria, croatia are proud, beautiful european countries, and my country poland is grateful to you for the way you are protecting the external borders of the european union today, for the way you are helping ukrainian refugees. we are also grateful to you for the fact that despite the difficulties that have been affecting your countries for 15 years, your countries, because you joined the european union in 2007, are nevertheless a solidarity and loyal partner of the european community.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. first, the good news from poland: 79% of polish citizens believe that the polish government should agree to return to the rule of law and reverse the deformation of the justice system and reach for money from the kpo. 79%, my dear europe! poland is not pis. support for poland's membership in the european union remains steady at 80% of the polish public despite seven years of hard-line anti-european propaganda in the so-called national media. the schengen area is a symbol of the successful european project, as is erasmus, the euro currency and the european capital of culture. but it is perhaps a europe without frontiers that is our greatest achievement in history. and the place of bulgaria and romania in the schengen area is an absolute symbol of the unity of europe. europe will be a continent where you can go from bucharest or burgas to madrid or lisbon without border controls. this is our duty and our future. you have to be brave, europa! yes for bulgaria and romania in the schengen area. eleven years of waiting is definitely too long.
mr. chairman, please! the absence of borders in europe has united our continent. it is a symbol of european values and the european way of life. bulgaria and romania, which joined the union in 2007, 15 years ago, are still outside schengen. croatia has been waiting for six years, and it is only now that schengen is the culmination of an integration process understood as a right but also as a serious obligation. each year, brussels examines in detail the adaptation of romania and bulgaria to the requirements of the zone and issues recommendations. if the commission therefore considers that the applicant countries meet all the key conditions, there is no need to wait. we have to make a decision. the union must prove that even in the difficult conditions caused by russia's aggression against ukraine, it can protect its greatest achievement, namely the free movement of persons - one of the four fundamental freedoms on which it is built.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if we are to ask ourselves today how we can make this world a better place, we must recognize the power of the way we shape our trade relations. to find this treasure, to actually make this a reality, what do we need? fair trade, decent pay, sustainable products that give the planet a chance to survive, and good working conditions for every woman and man. it takes courage. it takes courage to adopt binding rules - i say binding rules - and the strength to put those rules into practice. and this is particularly important to me, because implementation has been talked about a lot today. we need solidarity, we need people of good will, we need to give our partners, local producers, the chance to take their destiny into their own hands, and that requires us on the ground! this requires not just the abstract rule, but our intervention and presence where it is needed.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after years of pressure from the greens and others, all trade agreements must finally contain enforceable rules on social and environmental conditions. if they don't respect the paris climate agreement, or labor rights, then there will be sanctions. we're seeing that for the first time in the new zealand deal, and that's good. but the question is: the commission is not prepared to accept this approach. and will it still make bad trade deals for people and the environment? look at india, where there's a lot of talk, but there's not even a sustainability study. australia does not yet have a really strong protection of people and the environment, particularly when we are talking about critical resources or the climate. mercosur is a disaster for the rainforest, for small farmers, for indigenous peoples, and mexico is also particularly problematic. we need to reopen those negotiations with mercosur and mexico to make sure that there are truly binding sustainability chapters. but it seems that the commission is looking for a shortcut here, and that it is going to split deals to put the democratic debate in the national and regional parliaments out of the question. my message is clear: fix that content, because otherwise that kind of manoeuvre will only increase the resistance. mr commissioner, please be consistent. we can only accept trade agreements which respect people and the environment, and we will not accept anything less.
mr. chairman, please! on monday, there was a very important debate on the freedom of religion and practice. it condemned the fundamental issue of persecution, including that of christians, worldwide. why am i saying this? because these persecutions are happening in countries that are important trading partners of the european union and with which the european union has binding trade agreements. pakistan, egypt, china, india are places where believers today don't feel safe. so it's time for us to act, it's time to link the clauses protecting persecuted christians to the trade agreements signed by the european union. if egypt or pakistan cannot meet our simple conditions for the protection of believers and places of worship, then they should not count on trade agreements with the european union. i think it's time we revisit those rotten compromises. the case of russia, which the union has trusted and backed for years, shows just how much such compromises can cost us in the future.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. thank you very much, madam president, and also to the member for accepting my question. of course, i like all the talk about fair trade agreements between the european union and individual countries or continents or international organisations. we know that there are trade agreements with countries that use child labor. i'd like to know your opinion on that. what do you think of that? do you know of any countries, and any countries that have agreements with these countries, where children are working from a very young age and are being exploited for this work?
blue card reply. yes, i hope you listened carefully to what i said. i said: pakistan has asked us for compensation. and we said: you're certainly going to the neighbors, china and india. because china is the biggest polluter in the world. look at the nitrogen tax that china is putting on it. and all of this is because many people, including here in europe, are buying chinese products. so i myself try not to buy chinese products anymore, because i do not want to contribute indirectly to the pollution that that country causes. and of course we must support pakistan, all of us, but china and india must not be forgotten.
mr president, the scale of the floods in pakistan isn’t easy to grasp: 1 600 deaths, 33 million inhabitants affected, around one third of the landmass under water and more than 10 million people in need. as floodwaters slowly recede, the sheer scale of damage becomes even more evident. this catastrophe is yet another demonstration of the terrible effects that climate change can bring. it’s a country where the socioeconomic situation was already very fragile. despite massive relief efforts from pakistani authorities to alleviate the devastating impacts of the floods – and beyond, the immediate response from the international community, there are still many pressing needs to be covered and many health threats to be countered. therefore, we should step up our efforts to help pakistan in facing not only the immediate but also the long-term consequences of such a huge disaster and in building resilience against climate change. we welcome the new eur 30 million humanitarian aid package, but we ask to go beyond that.
mr. president, pakistan produces less than 1% of the world's emissions. however, it is one of the countries most affected by the consequences of climate change. it has been on the list of the ten countries most vulnerable to climate risks for 20 years. twenty years in which it has also been suffering another crisis: the foreign debt trap. the recent floods have caused $10 billion in damage. but so far this year, pakistan has paid over 15 billion dollars in debt repayments. debts that continue to rise thanks to the agreement signed with the imf, which obliges pakistan to cut its social spending and increase the prices of basic goods. it is illegitimate to enrich oneself by impoverishing and destroying others. if the european union wants to help alleviate the humanitarian emergency in pakistan, it should start by cancelling the part of the european union's illegitimate debt to pakistan.
a uachtaráin, the climate crisis is increasingly affecting the lives of millions of people across the world. this year, pakistan endured extreme weather conditions: from its heat wave in march and april, to the devastating floods in june. pakistan was one of the country’s worst affected by climate change in the first years of this century. this climate-induced crisis has come on top of an ongoing political and economic crisis. after the heaviest monsoons in over a century, 1 600 people lost their lives and approximately 13 000 people were injured, in addition to the millions of homes lost. the floods have also had a devastating effect on pakistan’s agriculture, which plays a central role in the country’s economy. it is essential that the eu stand with the people of pakistan, a country with which we have strong bilateral relations for over 60 years. i welcome the funding and supports that have been provided already. europe has offered humanitarian funding, provided medical aid and exported essential equipment, such as water pumps and hygiene kits. i would like to make a broader point. in europe our primary focus is on the unjust war in ukraine and the resulting energy crisis, which poses immediate and acute dangers. climate change, on the other hand, has not gone away. it poses an existential problem for the human race, and the effects are plain to see.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, pakistan is in chaos following the terrible floods that have struck the country. over 1,600 people lost their lives, millions of homes were destroyed, farmland was devastated, and hundreds of schools were wiped out. at least 8 million people have been forced to leave everything to find the resources they need to survive elsewhere. in this context, the new €30 million in humanitarian aid proposed by the eu to meet the vital needs of the pakistani people is a good thing. we also welcome the fact that the european civil protection mechanism has been mobilised to send teams to the scene to support the rescue operations. it is also necessary to strengthen this mechanism in terms of its human and financial resources in order to cope with future crises and calls for help both in europe and in the rest of the world. i would like to conclude by reminding you that although solidarity is irreplaceable for those who receive it, it does not solve everything. we must tackle the causes of these climatic disasters which are multiplying and intensifying, yesterday in pakistan, tomorrow on our continent. they are unquestionably the result of climate change, and it is our collective responsibility to mitigate the effects, especially for the most vulnerable.
mr. chairman, please! i express my condolences to the families of the flood victims and my sorrow for the destruction of so many homes, the loss of what is precious, what is dear, and the huge loss of infrastructure. what more can i say after all the words that have been spoken here? today we voted to adopt a report on access to water as a human right. during floods, although there is plenty of water everywhere, drinking water is needed. solidarity is not just about helping with this or that issue, it's also about fighting climate change, taking care of your environment so that it doesn't negatively impact the environment of your neighbors. we cannot predict which country will be next to suffer from the effects of climate change, such as drought, earthquake, eruption or, as in the case of pakistan, flooding. i expect that we will not only support the people of pakistan, but we will find ways to reduce these disasters in the future. it's pakistan now, and tomorrow it could be any of us.
mr. chairman, please! climate change did not just come out of nowhere. the west and the north bear the greatest responsibility for this state of affairs. the wealth of our part of the world is being consumed by environmental degradation, which is dramatically and dramatically precipitating the cataclysm in pakistan, which has affected over 30 million people. the storm engulfed 18 million square kilometers, flooded 2 million homes, and destroyed crops and infrastructure. the animals died. the losses are in the billions of dollars, and this is not the final balance. while we are working every day to pay off the debt we owe our planet by achieving climate neutrality, the tragedy of pakistan is a painful reminder that we are moving too slowly and too late, with consequences for countries that are almost helpless in the face of the cataclysm that has befallen them. the pakistani government is appealing to the world for support. the european union must respond to this by providing humanitarian, institutional, financial and other assistance.
mr. chairman, please! russia has for many years been using its raw materials, including natural gas, to wage war against the european union, against its food security and against european industry. of the total cost of nitrogen fertiliser production, 90% is the cost of natural gas. by tolerating the entry of russian nitrogen fertilisers into the union, the european commission is in fact supporting europe's continued dependence on russian gas. with cheap raw materials, russia has fertiliser power and has for years been seeking to dominate the world fertiliser market, which threatens the future of the union and european industry. the aggression against ukraine has clearly shown that russia cannot be trusted. the polish government, the government of law and justice, has been warning us for years. russia is using every leverage it has to blackmail and coerce political concessions. this also applies to the market for fertilisers. we in poland have legally blocked the russians from hostile takeover of our national economic champions. unfortunately, other eu countries do not have such a mechanism. the russian fertilizer companies are backed by oligarchs in putin's service. even though their owners are sanctioned, the companies they control continue to operate in europe and around the world, making europeans dependent on russian supplies. unfortunately, the european commission has done little to counter this.
mr president, commissioner, the income of our farmers is at an absolute low and a sector which was already in crisis is sinking even deeper into the red. the price increases, ladies and gentlemen, i must tell you frankly, are not normal. fertilizer prices have doubled, tripled, energy prices have more than doubled, and feed costs have also risen dramatically. what about the proceeds? the returns will remain the same. this week, commissioner, the flemish figures were published, those of our flemish farmers. it shows that operating costs have increased by 25% across all sectors of the agricultural industry and that 93% of turnover actually goes to costs. you told me a while ago, commissioner, how many farmers are disappearing every day in europe. do you remember that number? that was a thousand a day, ladies and gentlemen, a thousand farmers a day disappearing in europe. i ask you, commissioner, do you know the current figures? president. - i shall be rounding up because it is an important subject here. i want to make a call here. let us ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. russia still has many tools to attack ukraine, europe and the world. and this debate is very important today, because one of the tools is to deliberately and deliberately create a food crisis. it was russia that blocked the transport of food and grain from ukraine for months, fuelling a hunger and malnutrition crisis in third countries. what was the purpose of this? to force europe to make concessions in the ukraine. today, the war has also caused a huge increase in the price of fertilisers, which is also threatening the european community's position as a food exporter. 70% of fertilizer production in europe has been reduced or stopped. the problems on the fertiliser market are critical and require an immediate response. our farmers are waiting for financial support. i therefore think that the european commission should consider relaxing the rules on public aid so that community countries can finally help farmers to adjust to market fertiliser prices. we must do everything we can to halt the decline in crop production in 2023 and ensure food security.
mr. chairman, i apologize for being late. i'm grateful to have a voice. energy prices, gas prices, the shift of fertilizer production outside the european union, dependence on imports, and finally the war that interrupted all supply chains all led to a dramatic situation on the fertilizer market. yes, we must act here and now. not to think about next year, next year, next year, next year, because farmers and citizens need help. so here's a suggestion: the ets is a speculative market that causes everyone to lose control of energy prices. it should be suspended, as should the work on the fit for 55 package. commissioner, please tell president von der leyen that we need a reduction in gas prices, a freeze on gas prices, and she is the one who is against it. finally, let's allow financial aid for farmers. let's give them that help.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in its conclusions of 27 april, the commission notes that the covid-19 pandemic will have wide-ranging public health impacts, an unquestionable impact on health systems, a slowdown in economic processes and even lifestyles. member states are encouraged to develop key actions to protect public health while maintaining the openness and resilience of societies and economies. it is therefore necessary to develop a new modus operandi, which will provide a new definition of the pandemic response in the coming months, consisting of a transition from a state of emergency to a more sustainable one. in view of the above, and building on the experience gained from the covid-19 pandemic, what evaluation tools and instruments will the commission use to review the way it has operated so far, the review of the security policy in response to the crisis and the evaluation of the plans initiated and the procedures launched? how will the office for health preparedness and response (ohpr) be involved in the assessment process and to what extent will the medium and long-term actions be evaluated so that lessons learned from the pandemic will help to define an effective strategy for future work in the coming months?
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! poverty is the biggest and most difficult social problem. it's also a blemish on rich societies. it requires urgent systemic solutions and actions, including emergency response. combating poverty, especially child poverty, and supporting the most vulnerable is a task for the member states of the european union, but it is also our moral duty. the elimination of poverty is also one of the five un sustainable development goals. below the international poverty line, with just under $2 a day, 8% of the population lives. the number of people living in extreme poverty has decreased, but also unevenly. the greatest progress in eliminating extreme poverty has been made in asian countries. sub-saharan africa also saw a significant decline in poverty, but 44% of the population still lives below the international poverty line. employment is a factor in countering poverty. but we know that many working people are suffering from poverty. the greatest risk of poverty is faced by large families, people with disabilities, especially children. we must fight poverty effectively. the best solutions are good education, no inherited poverty, access to health care and improved family well-being.
the occurrence indicated by raising the blue card to marie toussaint (verts/ale). thank you very much for accepting my question, for the very simple reason that you are in a political group that plays an important role in the european parliament and in matters related to the green deal. are you not concerned, in your concern for poverty, that it might increase? are you not concerned that the gotowi package for 55 will deepen poverty in the european union? because there is information in this package and, let's say, actions that are to be directed towards raising taxes on household fuel and on car fuel. do you have any concerns about that?
i would like to reassure mr panza that there are never two sides of the same coin in this parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. well, first of all, we must pay tribute to the murdered journalist daphne caruana galizia and her family. it died because of the issues it was addressing, and among them is the corruption in the socialist government of joseph muscat. she deserves the utmost respect. she's been on corruption, tax fraud, money laundering. significantly, the proceedings, despite the passage of years, have not led to the conviction of any of the political leaders, nor to a true accounting of the affairs described by daphne, which were the direct cause of the order to kill her. in addition, the family of the murdered person continues to be the object of some persecution, whether judicial or otherwise. we fully support media freedom and strongly condemn any illegal actions aimed at putting pressure on journalists or media freedom. we therefore continue to be outraged by the impunity enjoyed by key figures in the former prime minister's administration, including the prime minister himself, his chiefs of staff, ministers and other members of the administration. we believe that all persons, regardless of political affiliation or status, should be equal before the law. the question is therefore: is it not time, commissioner, to start article 7 with malta? because in poland or hungary, have any journalists been killed who were dealing with corruption of politicians? have any journalists been killed? what's with the double standards? it's the same unsolved cases of the murder of jan kuciak and his fiancée martina kušnírová or viktoria marino or the greek journalist. where are the people who are responsible for these crimes, the people who are involved in this? what's with the double standards? if we really want to defend, if you want to defend the rule of law, then there will be no rule of law in the european union if journalists are not protected. it's time to protect the journalists. it's time for the real action. article 7 of the directive.
mr president, dear colleagues, it has been five years since daphne caruana galizia was assassinated. five long years without justice. where are those who ordered the murder? where are those who paid for it? the socialist government is still refusing transparency. there is pressure on journalists in malta. there is a lack of full media freedom. as the deputy chairman of the libe committee, responsible for monitoring of rule of law, i have to say very clearly and loudly, there is no rule of law without media freedom. there is no democracy without media freedom because there is no free and fair elections. we have to restore the rule of law in malta. daphne galizia is waiting for justice but is also still waiting for democracy there.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the fact that electric vehicle users will be able to use hydrogen charging and refuelling stations every 60 and 100 kilometres sounds great, but representing poland, which is at the beginning of its journey towards electromobility, i strongly demand the extension of the vacatio legis to prepare for the implementation of the objectives set out in the project. the development of alternative fuels infrastructure must be linked to the increase in the number of vehicles powered by such fuels. the construction of many stations for a relatively small number of vehicles is not economically viable and will entail public expenditure that will put a heavy burden on national budgets. especially now, when we're facing an energy crisis and high inflation. we also ask ourselves: how many families in less prosperous member states can afford to buy such cars today? achieving the ambitious goals of zero and low-emission transport? i'm not sure. but combined with the reality of the electric vehicle market and respect for countries at different stages of electric mobility. i hope that in the negotiations with the council we can reach a fairer compromise that will allow for a longer period of implementation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! it is not possible to hide that the revision of the conditions, the guidelines for employment is necessary because the realities have changed after the pandemic, and above all the war in ukraine is verifying our economic and social reality. we have to ask ourselves, what should be our goal? what are europeans most afraid of right now? the rising prices of energy and fuel, inflation, the fear that they will not be able to survive the coming winter, the fear of losing their jobs, entrepreneurs who are worried that they will have to close their businesses - these are the realities we are facing, and we should do everything we can to help the europeans in a real and rational way. so the first thing to do is to consider what causes these problems. the conclusions to be drawn from and the plans currently being implemented in the european union, for example on climate policy, the ets, must also be verified. we need to address the problems associated with these programs, the fit for 55 projects. it is costing the european economy and creating a reality where it becomes uncompetitive and the lives of europeans become very expensive. so we should first of all abandon the plans that are causing many, many problems for europeans today.
in writing. as a result of the russian war in ukraine, our neighbors on the eastern border have been living in daily hell for the past 8 months. murders, rapes, the sounds of rockets and bombs have again hit the borders of europe. this is a huge challenge for us europeans. many countries and entire societies have joined in active aid to ukraine, taking in millions of refugees, sending arms, medicine, humanitarian support. the war in ukraine is a test for the european union, for european values, i.e. solidarity, brotherhood, the willingness to help each other. many countries, especially in central and eastern europe, think it's perfect, including my country, poland, which is leading the way in helping the ukrainians. putin's war on the civilized world has brought us enormous social and economic costs, record inflation in the eu countries, and alarmingly high energy prices. our duty is to minimize the cost of this war, to protect the citizens and their wallets! war is not the time to pursue the eu's unrealistic, uncalculated climate policy goals, which will result in deepening poverty in europe! we have to suspend the eu ets today! we need to review the eu's climate policy! we must guarantee the europeans a safe winter, a safe future! we must continue to support ukraine, we must win this war! we will not do this by destroying the economies of the eu countries, by increasing poverty!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! this is a very important debate. the number of people affected by mental health problems is increasing, and recent estimates suggest that one in three people with mental health problems do not have access to professional medical care. this has been exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic. for this reason, the appropriate reform of mental health care system activities must be directed towards developing an environmental model of psychiatric care and equalising access through the implementation of programmes in health centres and the development of appropriate models of mental health care system for adults, children and adolescents. if we really and truly want to contribute to improving the mental health of our citizens, then here in the european parliament we must not forget about cooperation with member states and international organisations, the exchange of information, good medical practice and contact with specialist medical staff. let's actively create pilot programs of therapeutic interactions for people with trauma, addiction to new digital technologies, support programs for depression and anxiety disorders and thus help people with psychosocial problems to build their own autonomy and greater independence in society. let's listen to the needs of citizens, so that mental health centres are located close to where they live and offer support from psychologists, psychotherapists and environmental therapists. while we'll have to wait for the changes to take effect, we need to think about organizing, reorganizing psychiatric care today, preparing and increasing qualified therapeutic teams.
mr. chairman, please! in europe, 9 million young people live with mental disorders. suicide is the second leading cause of death among young people. about 1,200 young people in europe commit suicide every year. there's another group of people who are just as helpless. these are older people, senior citizens. living sometimes in misery, poverty. they leave their suicide notes, asking their families for forgiveness. they leave a note by the bed and say they just paid all their bills. they leave their bank account numbers. they leave quietly. they commit suicide. they were waiting for our help, not only domestic but also european. they were waiting for our help, which didn't arrive in time. if our response to these terrible facts is to end up in this debate, then we can say that it will only get worse. i am counting on you, commissioner, and i know that you will do everything, not only professionally but also as a person - a very sensitive person - to relieve these two social groups in particular.
in writing. the european union has long since experienced a crisis that directly affects the health and lives of our citizens. as a doctor by profession, i cannot remain indifferent to this fact. i'm glad we've seen in this house the problem of the long-term, growing environmental pressures on our mental health. i also thank the commissioner for her full understanding of the problem and her commitment to action. the war on our eastern border, the potential nuclear threat, whether it be from the occupation of the ukrainian nuclear power plants or indirectly, and concerning the possible use of nuclear weapons, finally the daily images of the massacres that the civilian population of ukraine is suffering at the hands of the russian aggressor just across our eastern border. add to this the declining purchasing power, the rising energy and fuel prices on the eve of winter, and the post-covid mental health disorders that many of us have experienced to a greater or lesser degree. in polish conditions, the situation is even worse. due to the structure of the banking system and the number of mortgages in millions taken out during the economic downturn in swiss francs, the current liabilities of mortgage borrowers have almost doubled. we all experience anxiety today, and it directly affects our mental health. we must do everything we can to protect the health of our citizens.
in writing. the announcement by ursula von der leyen that the commission will be preparing a comprehensive approach to mental health issues gives me great hope. just a few years ago, 84 million europeans were struggling with mental health problems, experiencing lack of support and stigma. unfortunately, both the pandemic and its social and economic impact, as well as the war in ukraine, have exacerbated this problem. young people are especially vulnerable. in most countries, the number of people between the ages of 15 and 24 with mental health problems has doubled. according to eurofound, mental health is the most challenging area for young people to access support and specialist services. europe therefore needs a mental health strategy that includes both research, prevention and education for teachers, healthcare professionals and social workers. in addition, the strategy should include raising awareness, tackling discrimination and stigmatisation of people affected by mental disorders and their families, and providing solutions for access to high-quality specialist services. the effective response to psychological problems of children and adolescents is of particular importance. they are the ones who will decide the future of europe, and it is high time to invest in the health and well-being of the younger generation.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the compromise they reached. i hope that tomorrow we will indeed all vote together on a common good position for this budget for 2023. of course, we have always treated the european commission's situation as a very conservative approach. we're concerned about whether there's enough money to cover all the needs in shared management. we therefore welcome the addition to the council's position of the traditional declaration of payments. the autumn budget negotiations should result in a common position of the council, the commission and the european parliament on this matter. unfortunately, the corrective letter from the european commission, published on october 5, does not show any increase in aid to the member states hosting refugees. i'm sorry about that. poland and other countries still have these refugees, refugees from ukraine. the development of the hostilities in ukraine suggests that further humanitarian support will soon be needed, irrespective of the amount of funds available under the solidarity and emergency aid reserve. we also welcome the removal of the so-called flexibility instrument in chapter seven, because when there is a war, it is not the time to discuss administration. the budget documents reflect the situation in the european union, because they show that we are dealing with inflation, with putin, with the russian aggressor, with the energy and food price increases, that the quality of life will decline, that we will have to pay off all the debts that the union has incurred, and so look for fresh money, look for new money. and maybe someone in poland will hear about this real situation in the european union, because the polish opposition here in parliament keeps saying that the crisis is only in poland.
dear president, commissioner, deputy prime minister and colleagues, hate speech, especially when coming from public figures, leads to hate crime. this must stop. last wednesday it was matúš and juraj who were brutally murdered by a far-right radicalised student in bratislava. today our thoughts are with their families and friends. next week, anyone belonging to the queer community – one of your kids, one of your grandkids, someone from this parliament – could be a victim of a coward homophobic or transphobic crime. in too many member states, far right, conservative and populist parties and religious fundamentalists spread lgbtiq-phobia, copying the kremlin’s narrative. they scapegoat and publicly target the lgbtiq community to divide societies. this must stop. and therefore, i urge the commission to take concrete sanctions against member states not complying with eu values. i call on the council to finally unblock the horizontal anti-discrimination directive, to come forward with an agreement on the gender-based violence directive and to unblock the inclusion of hate crime and hate speech to the list of eu crimes. i encourage the members of the slovak national parliament to establish – just like recently in hungary – an lgbtiq intergroup to work closely with civil society and monitor discrimination, hate speech and hate crime. lgbtiq rights, just like women’s rights and children’s rights are human rights. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. once again, hate has killed. homophobic hate speech is killing. literally, not figuratively. we cannot allow politicians to spew hate speech as part of testing new ideas for a shameful election campaign. we cannot allow the call to seek out and fight a common enemy to be a mere token of the most shameful cards in our history. we cannot allow the sometimes silent, sometimes mocking acceptance of the crowd for the hatred of another human being. hate begets hate! acceptance of hate speech breeds crime against specific people. that is why i call on the council to finally decide to add hate speech and hate crimes to the list of eu crimes! hate speech and hate crimes undermine the fundamental rights and values on which the union is founded.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we are rightly asking ourselves whether other countries will keep up with the european union's climate ambitions. the answer is well known. that's a negative answer. and what we're seeing is a growing gap between the climate activists in europe and the more pragmatic governments in india and china. but we see no sign of realism on the part of the decision-makers in europe. the european union will continue to preach to the world and destroy its economy with the same zero impact on global climate change. we have a real war in europe. this is not the time to increase climate finance. this is no time to spiral so-called climate ambitions. and above all, this is not the time to withdraw fossil fuel subsidies. the citizens of europe need answers to the energy crisis, not to repeat the same mistakes that the crisis has caused.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members for raising important issues tonight, providing additional political momentum ahead of the cop. i appreciate your commitment to maintain the european union’s role as a leader in the field of international climate action. a strong and united european union messaging will be instrumental to deliver. after sharm, our work must continue both domestically and internationally, and to help our partners to advance the transition to a low-carbon, climate resilient economy. thank you again for the opportunity of having this debate. the commission looks forward to continuing the important dialogue with this house, working together for a successful outcome of sharm.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the impact of the russian invasion of ukraine on migration flows to the eu (2022/2870 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, i spoke to this house on the impact of war on 8 march, 12 days after the start of putin’s invasion. and that was five days after the member states swiftly and unanimously agreed to my proposal to activate the temporary protection directive, giving ukrainian refugees immediate protection in the european union. i said that day on 8 march, more is to come. worse is to come. millions more will flee. and more did come. worse did come. bucha, izyum, mass graves, torture, murder, rape. and more than 4.3 million ukrainians have now registered for temporary protection in the european union. but what i could not predict is the extraordinary response by member states and european citizens, rising to the challenge, housing refugees, providing access to healthcare and jobs and places in school for nearly 650 000 ukrainian children today. in those early days, i could also not predict many would soon return to ukraine to fight, to support their country and their families. two weeks ago, i met with the mayor of bucha. he told me 70% of his citizens had already come back. but as putin loses the battlefield, losses on the battlefield increase, so do his attacks on civilians. missile attacks, killing innocent people, daily strikes against the water supply and electricity supply. people could soon feel forced to flee ukraine again. they must be sure they can do so safe in the knowledge that our doors remain open. that’s what i told ministers at last friday’s justice and home affairs council, and they agreed. when people return to the eu, protection status will be swiftly reactivated. ministers also agreed with the need to continue applying the temporary protection directive for another year until march 2024. i also discussed with ministers what winter may bring. and we are ready. we have been working closely with member states on a common view, on a contingency plan and are ready for new arrivals. and we have allocated the full eur 400 million in emergency assistance promised to support member states reception systems and border management. and we made sure 30% of those funds will go to ngos and local authorities. and for all those still in the european union receiving protection, we are helping them to find their way into the labour market. last week i launched a talent pool pilot together with commissioner schmidt, an online search tool under the eures portal. together with anna, a student from donbas, and vera, an engineer from kiev. the first two to register. they now can apply for more than 3 million vacancies across the eu and 4000 verified employers can find their cvs. after mobilization, we have not seen large number of russians arriving in the eu, but we must be vigilant. putin’s illegal annexation, mobilisation, the nuclear threat, danger is rising, and so must our level of protection. that’s why the commission put forward guidelines to make it much more difficult for russians to enter the european union on tourist visas and with coordinated and thorough controls of russian citizens at eu’s external borders. but europe remains open for those in need of protection, for dissidents, for journalists. we do not yet see the war affecting migration from other parts of the world to the eu. we will continue to monitor developments closely and act accordingly. to end this crisis, first, putin must lose. seeking to divide us, putin has only united us. and second, we need a pact on migration and asylum. i’m very glad that we already had the preparedness and crisis blueprint network in place, providing information critical for swift and decisive action. and i’m very glad that the eu asylum agency is in place with its reinforced mandate giving stronger support to member states. now, we must put the rest of the package in place, and i’m confident the cooperation between the presidencies and the parliament is unprecedented. the road map is very important, showing a clear way forward and an ambition that has proven evasive for so many years. so let’s build on that to reach an agreement.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the russian invasion of ukraine had, of course, a huge and a direct impact on migratory migration flows to the eu. more than 11 million ukrainians crossed the border of the european union. a significant number have returned, indeed, but over 4 million of them have registered for temporary protection in the eu. and the eu delivered on this tpd. and we can be proud about how millions of refugees received a warm welcome all over europe, particularly in countries bordering ukraine – poland, slovakia, hungary, romania, moldova. it has been really impressive to see all the efforts by citizens and communities to take care of vulnerable people. but the migration challenge is not restricted to migration flows directly from ukraine. in the first nine months of this year, more than 228 000 migrants irregularly crossed the external borders of the eu, the highest number since 2016. for three consecutive months, there were more than 70 000 asylum applications per month in the eu. again, the last time this happened was in 2016 – crisis time. on the western balkan routes, we see an increase of almost 200% compared to last year, mainly due also to the scandalous visa policy of serbia, which i hope the commission will address without delay. we are sleepwalking towards another migration crisis and we already see member states reaching the limits of reception capacity. so we need to act. we can point fingers to member states and agencies as much as we want, but we need to do our job as a parliament by making real progress on the pact on migration to make sure it is adopted as soon as possible. we cannot allow any further delays. let’s get to work.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner johansson, the facts speak for themselves, the data do, but the facts are no less eloquent. since putin's war of aggression against ukraine, at least one third of the ukrainian population has been forcibly displaced. more than 11 million people from ukraine have entered the territory of the european union. as you have pointed out, some seven million have returned to ukraine, naturally because of family contacts or belongings. you're free to do that. but at least four million - the majority of them, 90%, vulnerable and defenceless women and children - are enjoying in the european union the status of the temporary protection directive which gives them, without the need for a visa, access to the schengen area of free movement, free residence and access to employment and to all the social rights and benefits that are associated with access to the labour market. of course, we are glad. but this requires a huge effort on the part of this parliament to provide the necessary funding and support to the member states. and we did it. we have not hesitated for a second to approve the financial aid: the care programme (cohesion action for refugees), the react-eu programme, all the remaining funds and, above all, the increase in the asylum, migration and integration fund, the internal security fund - up to 400 million euros to support the huge effort being deployed at the border, precisely the countries that are receiving them, without ignoring that, enjoying free movement in the european union, they are currently in all the states of the european union. in my country, spain, there are 140,000. now the lesson is clear and i stress it, and it is that: "when there is a way, there is a will; when there is a will, there is a way". we could have done this before. we've finally activated the temporary protection directive. it is the first time, but the fact is that, having received four million people under the temporary protection directive, they have not broken the strings of the social welfare state or the european social model. we are therefore prepared to do so with people from other conflict zones as well, and the opportunity is the road map we have agreed with you, commissioner johansson, to bring forward the new pact, the five regulations of ... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker).
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, dear ylva johansson, putin's war in ukraine has major repercussions far beyond the european continent. according to the un food and agriculture organization, the number of undernourished people worldwide could rise from 8 million to 19 million between 2022 and 2023 as a result of the war. global food insecurity is a major factor in migration. we are already seeing some concrete signs of this. between january and june this year, the union received 410,000 asylum applications, compared to 206,000 - half - during the same period in 2021, with an increase in asylum applications for tunisians and egyptians. this situation could worsen considerably in the coming months. does the commission analyse migration trends in third countries in order to anticipate these flows of migrants? and the second question is: what support are we already giving to the third countries concerned? i would like to regret the absence of the council and call, as my colleagues do, on... (the president withdrew the floor)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. well, ladies and gentlemen, let's be clear: there is one country in the european union that, from start to finish, stands firmly behind ukraine and takes the brunt of the aid. and that country is poland. since february 24, the day of the beginning of the russian aggression, 7 million ukrainian refugees have crossed the polish-ukrainian border reports the border guard. according to the guards, it's mostly women and children. according to the oecd, the cost of basic living for ukrainian refugees in poland alone will exceed 40 billion in 2022. that's a record in europe. but that's not all. that cost will have to be multiplied many times over. poland will spend almost pln 1 billion on ukrainian education, and the cost of medical care for ukrainian refugees in poland is pln 200 million a month a month! not to mention the individual costs that the poles who have shared their homes with them have to bear. poland is ukraine's most important asset: logistic, military, food, economic. without poland, ukraine would not have made it. what are you guys doing? you say you're for ukraine, you put ribbons on your hands and you put sanctions on poland. not only did you give almost nothing to poland to help the ukrainians, you also took almost 160 billion from poland's kpo, and now you're blocking funds from the cohesion fund. that's more sanctions than you've ever imposed on russia. so stop going on the stage and saying that poor women, poor children of ukraine, just give the means to what they really need. otherwise, you're helping putin. he also prefers endless chatter to real means for poland and the ukrainians.
mr president, one of the lessons to be learned from the russian invasion of ukraine is that the countries of the union are able to take in millions of people quickly. this goes against much of the talk of recent years and, above all, it proves that the temporary protection directive could and should have been implemented and that it works. this directive was never used, although it dates from 2001. yet, wars and the resulting population movements have not been without a handful since that date. and it has been necessary to wait until the conflict is on europe's doorstep, without a country to act as the interface, for the member states and the commission to act and for communities and ngos to be massively and rapidly supported in access to housing, health, work and education. i hope that this will serve as a precedent for future crises, which are bound to occur, but also that negotiators will take this into account in the context of the ongoing discussions on the immigration and asylum pact. it's the long-awaited clicker effect. we have here the formal proof that welcoming people seeking international protection with dignity is a positive thing.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, putin’s russian aggression against peaceful ukraine is destroying homes and lives. it is causing terror, uncertainty and pain for the people of ukraine. the russian invasion of ukraine has turned more than 7 million innocent ukrainians into refugees, more than the entire population of bulgaria, or two of bosnia and herzegovina. the brutal actions amount to a crime against humanity. once again, i would like to thank all those who have taken ukrainian refugees into their homes, cared for them and provided them with a safe haven. it is a true demonstration of european humanism and solidarity. only together can we overcome all the difficulties and defeat the enemy that threatens our lives and well—being. slava ukraini!
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! seven million ukrainians crossed the polish border. women, children, they're stuck in poland. there are now nearly two million. poland has the biggest costs of helping ukrainian migrants, people who fled russian aggression. beyond what you all say here, how much you are moved, how much you need to help the ukrainians, we must ask ourselves: how does the european union help the country that is most burdened by this great wave of migration from ukraine? this help is illusory, commissioner. you were at the border. you know what polish aid to ukrainian refugees looks like. we opened our hearts to them. we opened our homes to them. the polish state finances the education of ukrainian children. polish citizens give shelter. it's time to move. we need concrete, measurable, financial help.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you very much for your personal commitment. when i think back to the beginning of the russian invasion of ukraine, i think of the attack on freedom, the human suffering caused by putin's war, but also of that overwhelming and moving solidarity with ukrainian refugees, the eu member states who built up shelter and protection in a hurry and thousands of europeans who opened their homes in many member states - including the netherlands - that makes me proud. but i must have a heart. the contrast with the situation in ter apel - also in the netherlands, also in europe - is great. children sleep on the ground, refugees stand for hours in the rain. i'd be ashamed as a dutchman, as a european. we have to prepare for new refugees from the ukraine. together, in solidarity, we can deal with that. we are prepared, but let us show humanity to all refugees fleeing violence and oppression. bombs don't know the difference. we're not allowed to do that either.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. how much of the europe of schuman, the europe of solidarity, the europe of respect is left? the answer to this question is to be found in the very brutal war in ukraine. pln 9 billion is almost 2.3 billion euros that the polish government has spent on supporting and accommodating ukrainian refugees in poland. this is the same amount that the european commission has allocated to support all 27 countries of the european union. while poles do everything they can to help their neighbour in the fight, bearing the gigantic costs of instability and rising energy prices, here in the union, the game is on. the commission blocks the funds due to kpo, litigates for the forfeiture of autonomy. the kremlin can only rejoice at such an attitude. it's bitter and sad, but i want to say this from many, many polish citizens. and yet, 6 billion euros were paid to turkey to take in over 3 million refugees. that's one billion euros a year. so it's not about the money, we're a proud nation, but we want to draw attention to the fact that under... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! six months ago, when hundreds of thousands of ukrainians were fleeing russian bullets, the people of poland opened their hearts to them. they opened their houses, they opened their refrigerators, they opened their closets. for weeks at a time, no matter the cost. it was society, not the scriptural government, that met this enormous challenge. it was the people in mysłowice, rybnik, sosnowiec and częstochowa who took responsibility for the refugees. but the same people who helped back then need help today. they need eu help because they are ruled by losers who have not only failed to prepare the country for the hard times, but who are destroying their future and the future of their children. 75 billion euro from the cohesion funds could be lost to the writers. commissioner, create a mechanism to transfer eu money directly to local governments, to ngos. we will send a letter to the european commission tomorrow with other polish meps. please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, european funds for citizens, not for incompetent authorities.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you all for this very important debate and for your strong commitment. putin is responsible for this terrible war. he wants to destroy ukraine. he wants to destroy the ukrainians as a people. but we should not be naïve, he also would like to destroy the european union. putin is a threat also towards us, and the security threat in the european union is rising and we need to act to protect ourselves. the right to apply for asylum, also for russian citizens, remains untouched, but the possibility to get a tourist visa in the european union is not a fundamental right and should be restricted for russian citizens. putin must lose, it’s the only way to end this crisis and we must continue to support ukrainians in ukraine. we have mobilised so far eur 10 billion in humanitarian emergency and military aid. another 5 billion is in the pipeline. we are preparing for winter. and many of you have recognised –and thank you very much for that – the unprecedented decision when member states agreed to my proposal to activate the temporary protection directive. so far, 4.3 million ukrainians have registered for a temporary protection. but since may, every week we have seen more people leaving the european union back to ukraine and coming in the other direction. so quite a high number of ukrainians are now back in ukraine. i met some of them when i was in kyiv in august. and it is clear that those that have registered for a temporary protection, when they go back to ukraine, they are no longer refugees. they should de—register for temporary protection. but they are afraid to do so because they say, well, if bombs start falling again, as they are right now, they need to quickly come back to european union and they are welcome back to the european union when things get worse. that’s why we have been working together with the member states, together with ukrainian government, to make sure, we say, you could always go back to ukraine and you do not need to de—register, but you need to notify the member state where you have registered that they are going back to ukraine, but you can keep your registration so it’s easy to come back to the eu if things get worse. many of you – some of you – have raised the money. so, as i said in the beginning, we have allocated all the eur 4 million in emergency assistance that we promised for protection of borders and for dealing with refugees. we have supported the member states most affected, and the biggest share has gone to poland. we have also made sure that 30% of these funds will go to ngos and local authorities. concerning food insecurity, we must get the grain out of ukraine and we are taking action. between may and august, eu solidarity lanes carried more than 11 million tonnes of grains, oilseeds and other products out of ukraine, and we provide a total of 7.7 billion in support for food insecurity as part of global gateway investments in partner countries. food insecurity could bring conflict, increased criminal and terrorist threat and provoke social unrest. these could provoke people to flee. so far, we are not seeing this happen, but we remain vigilant. we are closely following the developments. and to conclude, honourable members, since february, we as a european union have shown what we can achieve when we work close together, united here, to deal with the migration crisis. we should use these lessons learned of what we can achieve when we actually cooperate in a positive way, to use that on the pact on migration and asylum to make sure that this pact will be adopted during this mandate.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. there are still more questions than answers in this debate. the fact is that russia's ongoing invasion of ukraine will increase the influx of refugees, which will increase further as the winter approaches. but is europe prepared to accept such an influx of people who will need to take shelter in heated rooms? does the european union and each country have a strategy? do governments and local authorities already know how many places they have available and do they have other resources in place? we have to prepare ourselves with the knowledge that we're going to be operating in a much more challenging environment than we were six months ago. eu citizens are becoming impatient with the additional cost of living, limited access to heating, and higher prices for food and other products. we talk a lot about solidarity. but it also requires giving up some of the wealth we have. can we accept that our homes will be smaller, colder, food not available in such quantities, cities will become dark, etc. but can we refuse to help the ukrainians? citizens no longer want to be subservient to the state, but are able to cooperate with the government if the conditions for joint action are offered. we have to win together, so we have to fight together and accept all the consequences of this solidarity. that's an important message, which i feel is often missing from your speeches.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. every year, several hundred thousand children are reported missing in the european union. most of them are found within 24 hours of disappearance, but some are lost for years. it's a huge blow to the loved ones who, despite the passage of time, still hope to see their son or daughter again. children across europe die in different circumstances and for different reasons. most of them are runaways from homes where something bad is happening, sometimes violence. but children also disappear as a result of kidnapping. they disappear in emergencies like war or migration. the data is pitiless in this respect. let me remind you that in 2015, after the wave of migration, 10,000 children went missing across the european union. unfortunately, the same story can happen to unaccompanied children who flee ukraine. in may, we celebrate the international day of the missing child. his symbol is the flower of unforgettability. it's a name given to children who have been missing for a few, a dozen, or even a few decades, and to this day, no one knows what happened to them. this raises key questions: should we develop the system of protection, support and tracing of minors that already exists? can it try to build a single eu system with common procedures and closer cooperation between the relevant services? i believe that these solutions are not mutually exclusive, but should complement each other. intensive action is needed at both national and eu level. and i'll end with the obvious. let's not forget that these children still have loved ones waiting for them.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. we, the citizens of a free, democratic europe, call on national parliaments, we call on the governments of the member states to recognize russia as a state that organizes and conducts terrorism! i hope that this house, the european parliament, will show unity on this issue. and it will also force the european commission, the european council, to act decisively. we are on the eve of a summit which should end not only with important declarations but also with important actions on this issue. today's images of thousands of people killed, attacks on civilian objects, on residential buildings in ukraine are not the only images that we have in our memory. the deportation of thousands of people into russia for ethnic reasons alone, including children, is kidnapping. and you remember the plane that was shot down? dutch flight mh17. three hundred innocent people. hospitals and schools in syria burned down by russian-trained criminal gangs. official support of the wagner group by putin and the awarding of various medals to these criminals. if we, as the european people's party, call for putin to be called a war criminal, it is not just words. his place is before the international court of justice in the hague. we have to make it happen. as a polish mep, because this initiative goes beyond the divisions of our polish environment, i would like to say that we must rise above national divisions, above political divisions, to show unity in this house, as the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe did last week. because do we need more victims and examples to call russia a state that supports, organizes and carries out terrorism? thank you, and i urge unity.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. since february 22nd, we have witnessed daily attacks and crimes against the ukrainian population, for example in bucha, and against civilian infrastructure. over 30% of the power plants in ukraine have already been destroyed. it was done by the russian military on the express orders of russian president putin. this type of attack is called terrorism in international law. putin has repeatedly threatened to use nuclear weapons and is responsible for attacks on nuclear power plants, such as chernobyl and zaporozhye. and that is nuclear terrorism. it must be punished. russia has long since crossed the line between a state sponsor of terrorism, as in the case of the dutch mh17 downing, and has already become a clear terrorist state that must be put on the list of terrorist organizations, and putin must be declared a terrorist and put on an international wanted list. in addition, countries that supply russia with weapons used to attack civilian targets and critical infrastructure (such as kamikaze drones) must be considered sponsors of terrorism.
madam president, madam commissioner, colleagues, there are two definitions of terrorism. one is that it is the deliberate use of extreme violence to achieve political aims, and the other is attacking combatants during an armed conflict. russian death squads have killed president yandarbiyev of chechnya in 2004 in doha. litvinenko, killed with polonium in london, has already been mentioned. major skripal in salisbury with novichok and one could go on. and we all know what putin is doing to ukrainian cities right now. so russia fulfils both definitions, but it is not a sponsor of terrorism. these are not done by some other organisation that russia pays. these assassinations and these bombing campaigns are done by the employees of russian security services and of the russian federation. therefore, russia is not a sponsor of terrorism, but a terrorist state. the challenge for us is to pass legislation, like in the united states, that will enable the victims of this terrorism to claim compensation from russian state assets. and this should be the purpose of our activity and of the pronouncements we are going to make in the next few days.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. russia is a terrorist state. putin is a war criminal. it's obvious, but you have to say it loud and clear, because history likes to forget. in 1945 the red army did not liberate the silesian lands. she was doing the same thing in the ukraine today. she destroyed, burned, killed and raped. half a million silesian, german and polish women were raped. and no one has ever accounted for this tragedy. no one paid any compensation or reparations. it's time to send notes to moscow. those who thought that we could get along with russia were wrong. the soviets are not democrats, they are liars and whistleblowers. one of them is sergei andreyev, putin's ambassador to warsaw. today, ukrainians are dying for european values. and we in the european parliament must stand behind them with a wall. it's time to kick russian diplomats out of the european union, both in berlin and warsaw.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. madam chairman of the commission! ladies and gentlemen! president von der leyen spoke a moment ago of the solidarity and unity we need at this moment to overcome this great crisis that we are all facing and that we have been talking about for so long. weeks, months go by, and we're still in the same place. there are still plans and we still hear words about solidarity and unity. we need solidarity and unity, but, ladies and gentlemen, the question is: what is it? will there be solidarity and unity in europe, in the european union, if the democratic choices and decisions that citizens make in their european countries are undermined? both the decisions of the elections and the decisions of the democratically elected governments? questioned only because they don't like the majority that's sitting here today, he talks about the need for a change of policies, energy policy among others, to protect the citizens of europe from the crisis. and very often, both the left and the center of this room forget that this politics and this life in europe right now is partly because these and not other decisions were made here in this room. once again, we have to mention nord stream 2, for example, this project. it is often necessary to take important, courageous decisions and to be able to defy the majority when it is necessary and when it is in the interests of the citizens of europe. sometimes you have to be able to veto to get the majority to think. i hope that the european council will finally take bold decisions at this next summit, because that is what the europeans need. that's what we all need to survive, to defeat putin and finally solve this crisis. europeans need support today. you can't have climate policy at the expense of any one social group. we must finally start to think rationally about climate and energy issues. there is one thing we can do very quickly, and it will help all of europe. we need to shut down the pathological ets system. that is what the polish government is saying, among others, and i think that european leaders will finally have the courage to do so at the next summit.
in writing. president von der leyen spoke at the opening of this debate about the need for solidarity and unity. it is true that it is high time that these concepts were put into practice, that this unity and solidarity were not only visible in words but also in the actions of the european institutions. after all, these lofty notions remain only in the realm of ideas even in the face of real war, russian aggression and the murder of civilians by its army. even now, after so many months of open aggression, in violation of all conventions and laws, here in this house we are debating who, and under what conditions, has the right to support, to solidarity, to a sense of unity among the civilized nations of europe. the majority in this chamber, whether in the political parties or in the political groups, regularly argues over who is legitimate and can count on european solidarity, and who is not and must be forced by all means to conform to the majority on the left. when we warned here about the disastrous effects of implementing the pathological ets system, no one believed that this system would cause a crisis, an increase in energy prices. the reality has confirmed our fears, but the commission continues to push, continues to ignore the counter-arguments, changes nothing. i hope that the european council will have the courage to take the difficult but very necessary and courageous decisions which will benefit all the member states and not just - as mrs von der leyen would like - berlin.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. well, let's get the facts straight first. ladies and gentlemen, what ideology has claimed the most victims in the history of the world? well, that ideology was communism. communism, which i understand you don't mind, because there are a lot of people here who appeal to that ideology, including, i understand, the coalition government in spain. and you don't mind that at all. let us remember what communism was and what values it was based on: the fight against god and christianity, the fight against the family, the fight against freedom and the fight against the real foundations of europeanism, which have been three for over two thousand years: greek philosophy, roman law, christianity. it was the foundation of peace in europe, the greatest works of art, architecture, philosophy, a universal education system, the first constitution in europe, which was written in catholic poland. schuman was a man of the values you all so often refer to. and today, if he were to come here to this parliament, he probably wouldn't be able to perform any function. because you have such a democracy that if someone you don't like wins in sweden, there is no democracy. - because what? so in spain, if someone you don't like wins, or in italy, if someone you don't like wins, then there is no democracy. because true democracy for you is only when the left wins. but that, ladies and gentlemen, is not democracy, it's dictatorship. it's exactly the same with this rule of law criterion. in poland, the same solutions are available as in other countries. it's just that you guys are bothered by it because you say "they're men, but they have a lower culture and tradition". it's the racist views that have led to all the wars in europe. don't go that way. real democracy is about listening to the people, not imagining that you alone will decide who really rules in your country.
mr president, big words, grave concerns, and self-righteous indignation from the spanish social democrats and other colleagues here, but colleagues, this is not a new threat. spain has vox now, yes, but vox had spain long before it even existed. vox had judges also in the constitutional court long before it had any elected representative. vox controls the police, the military and the judiciary – and no wonder, honestly. the king of spain was appointed by his corrupt fugitive father, who in turn got the crown from franco. spain’s chain of legitimacy dates back to the 1939 fascist victory, the only extreme right victory in europe that never got overturned. yet authorities in the eu speak of spain, more of transition to democracy, and shallow abuses of human rights, with a straight face. when it comes to catalonia, all spanish authorities subscribe to the agenda of the extreme right, and as long as brussels protects them, you are complicit in advancing the political testament dictated by franco on his deathbed.
mr. chairman, please! you want to see what right-wing governments look like? come to my homeland, to poland. lgbt-free zones, women reduced to incubators, alliance of throne and altar, assault on media and judiciary - these are the things that happen when we, the common people, turn a blind eye, pretend we don't see. when the far right is whitewashed, normalized, our community, the european community, loses. because the european union - and we must be clear about this - is based on completely different values and principles than those advocated by the far right. the european union was founded, among other things, on the great dream that the extreme right would never again be in power. from experience, that auschwitz, that greatest concentration camp, did not fall from the sky. it was the indifference of ordinary people that led to this, and it was the kind of whitewashing that we have seen here today. we have another crisis. the far right will be looking for their scapegoats. he's already looking, there are already victims in bratislava, among others. but if we, the common people, turn a blind eye, there will be more victims like this. the last prisoner of auschwitz-birkenau, professor marian turski, said, "there is still the 11th commandment: do not be indifferent". let's not be indifferent.
mr president, like a virus, right—wing extremism is mutating in unpredictable ways. exasperated by a pandemic which has left many scared and alone, extremist organizations have found a playground for recruitment on online comment boards and social media platforms. yes, a playground, with media reports indicating that children as young as 13 are actually leading neo-nazi divisions across the union. it is clear that we need to take action and we need to do so very fast, especially in the face of upcoming crises. sixty acts of right—wing extremism terror happen every year, often by young men who end up as lone wolves, but they are not. they are almost always part of radical, violent online groups who post memes glorifying misogyny, homophobia and white supremacy, making jokes out of violence while their hateful words turn into deadly actions with the blessing of the epp, as we have seen in italy and sweden. and by the way, where is the epp in this debate? they have fled with the far right. we warned about this yesterday, commissioners. we warned you last week, last month. and we warn you again today. more minorities will die if you not take action against europe's biggest and most legitimate terrorist organisation: the far right.
mr president, many conservatives and some liberals have decided that to get to power, anything goes, covering up their bad results in the elections; anything goes, even to make a deal with the far right. we have seen it now in sweden, where the traditional right has been brought into government by a party with neo-nazi roots. we are also seeing it in italy, where berlusconi's traditional right has decided that he is going to place a post-fascist as prime minister. and we see it also systematically in spain, where popular and the extreme right of vox reach agreements in countless regions, such as madrid or andalusia. and in a democracy not everything is allowed. not everything is fair because our actions have consequences and normalizing racism and homophobia obviously breeds violence and intolerance. normalizing machismo ends up generating gender violence and normalizing the simplistic and fanciful recipes of the far right will only generate resentment and frustration. today the far right in the institutions is a solvent for democracy and liberals and conservatives should not be complicit in it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is not a whim to fuel a silly polemic in the european community. we are discussing, i believe, a crucial point here which comes before everything else: the need to protect the environment. the european parliament has been the guiding force in the construction of this common home, which is europe and its various institutions, starting with parliament. if we do not see this, we are blind and will pay a heavy price in the months and years ahead. i say this especially to my friends in the people's party, who i do not see in large numbers in this debate, but also to the moderate centre, the broad left, which is always attentive to these issues. we are faced with a new thought that comes forward: the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome for a long time, and it is not only the european parliament that has been the subject of this debate, but also the european parliament itself. we must react, and perhaps the time has come for a new constituent pact between the democratic forces of europe.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. yes, we have a brown wave problem almost all over europe. in poland, for several years now, instead of the independence day on november 11 and the normal patriotic event, we have a holiday of sick nationalism independence march. it is a great scandal that with the approval of the authorities, this is how polish independence is celebrated with a piece of pavement in one hand, and in the other with a white and red flag drowned in smoke from the racks. but the writing authority is happy with this arrangement, because it gives bąkiewicz more money (almost 4 million zlotys last year). and so the brown tide rises, because the government knows very well that there may come a day when it needs the help of the extreme forces on the streets. just like trump after he lost power. and during the women's strike, it was the nationalists who attacked polish women. we will never forget you. first of all, we have to outlaw the national guard. second, not one euro for the bąkiewicz. third, the law and justice will be charged for every 10 pence donated to the nationalists.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! it has been said here many times that either the european union will open its doors to the citizens of the western balkans, or else russia, china and even saudi arabia and iran will have an increasing influence in these countries. it is therefore in the interest of the european union as a whole to maintain the high momentum of the enlargement process. this union policy is even more important in the face of russian aggression against ukraine and the destabilising actions of third parties, in particular russia, in the countries concerned. full alignment with the european union's common foreign and security policy should be a priority and must be tailored to individual candidates on an equal footing, without applying double standards. the inclusiveness of all enlargement documents should be sought, including the conclusions of the council of the european union, which should reflect as much as possible the recent positive decisions, such as the adoption of the negotiating framework for albania and north macedonia or, even more importantly, the granting of candidate status to ukraine and moldova and a european perspective for georgia.
madam president! this very interesting debate is coming to an end. i would like to raise one more point and ask the commissioner a question, because we have not really talked about this with all the enthusiasm for the enlargement of the european union (and i am one of them) about the western balkans. i would like to ask about the economic aspect of enlargement, because every now and then there are estimates of what it will look like if, for example, these few countries join the european union. how will the common agricultural policy, the cohesion funds, etc. have to change? is there any data on this matter at this time that you can tell us about?
madam president! they kiss hands, talk about morality, then fight the law that protects women from violence. right-wing populists are attacking the law that supports victims. they're attacking the law that protects families. they attack the istanbul convention, even here in strasbourg, when such a fundamental issue as gender-based violence arises, it is the pis that votes against. i vote against the debate. he votes against women. where there's violence, there's no room for ideological nonsense. where there is violence, there is a place to discuss how to protect the victims and how to punish the perpetrators. but we can see clearly that you're not interested in that. we, unlike you, don't see people in bed. you have some kind of sick obsession, an obsession with sex and gender, an obsession that every week the president of all of poland shows. the obsession you play politically. the people of poland expect a normalcy that is not defined at party rallies by a soulless old man. they want a normalcy where the justice fund is used to support victims, not to police the opposition. they want a normalcy where women aren't forced by the state to be heroes. they expect a normalcy where the attorney general doesn't attack a domestic violence document. we will restore normalcy, the rule of law and european values soon.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! violence and rape cannot be tolerated in the 21st century. in the 21st century, it's the victims that should be protected, not the perpetrators. and it's not rape and violence victims who should be afraid to report a crime. it's the criminals who should fear the heavy penalty. in the 21st century, there should be a clear definition of sexual exploitation and rape that applies in all countries of the european union. it's not the victims who should be forced to answer questions about whether their clothing, makeup or appearance provoked the perpetrators. in the 21st century, it can't be that victims choose to remain silent rather than report a crime. ninety percent of sex crimes go unreported, and in the remaining ten, only one in four cases ends in a conviction for the perpetrators, usually on probation. strong legal instruments and zero tolerance policies are about supporting and protecting women. ratifying the istanbul convention and criminalizing gender-based violence in the european union are steps we must take immediately. but i also know that change can only come with the support of men, and today, men are the cure in this room. i hope we can feel that support. finally, i would like to applaud the countries that have ratified the istanbul convention and applaud the president-in-office, mrs ewa kopacz, who had the courage to ratify the istanbul convention in poland when she was in office.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, women continue to die, they continue to be the object of violence, it happens in the world, it happens in europe, in our europe, and i keep saying that, if you think about it, this is the only tragic fact that really unites us. we do not share the same rights, there are different rights depending on the country in which we are born, we do not share the same freedoms, there are different freedoms depending on the country in which we are born, the only thing we have in common because we are women, i would say because of the guilt of having been born women, is the fact that we are constantly subject to violence. and this is true of all women, whatever their social status, whatever their economic status, whatever their religion. and this terrible fact constitutes an intolerable limitation on our dignity, our freedom and, in the end, ladies and gentlemen, on our lives. and then, of course, we must act on the regulatory level, we must continue along the path marked out by the istanbul convention, but i would remind this house once again, and also those of my colleagues who are making rather original speeches, that the convention is not an end point, but only a starting point. these are the minimum standards which should be further developed and strengthened in the member states. i am thinking here of the directive on violence which we are working on, on which we are taking action at parliamentary level to provide uniform minimum protection for all women in the union, but let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that in addition to a regulatory level, i would first of all like to say the regulatory level, on the cultural, social and institutional level, we continue to have an intolerable shortage. so, only when we have created a culture of full gender equality, can the rules be fully enforced. in short, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a lot of work to be done, and this house will continue to do so, for the women of today and for the women of the future.
madam chair, ladies and gentlemen, only 14 percent of women report violence. one in six women in europe is a victim of domestic violence, and one in seven women dies every day as a result of such violence. violence against women is a cause and consequence of poverty and social exclusion for women, which in particular increases the risk of not being able to get out of this situation. but women are strong. let me tell you about an interesting study from mckinsey: companies with the most gender diversity in their executive teams are 26% more likely to have above-average profitability. if women were given equal opportunities by 2050, the gdp per capita in the european union could increase by €3.15 trillion. so i ask you: why just exclude half of the talents, the knowledge, the experience, the abilities -- because women make up 51 percent of the european population, 226 million female votes. imagine how it would resonate if we spoke with one voice against all those weaklings who raise their hands just because they're women.
i am a member of a feminist party and therefore we want to pave the way for the ratification of the istanbul convention and we welcome the proposal for a directive. in my country, one in four women who suffer gender-based violence is a minor. we need violence courts, economic, social and employment assistance for victims. i am proud that my party has promoted in the galician parliament the law on vicarious or inter-marital violence in which men accuse women through their children. i'm very proud of you. the far right denies gender violence. have you no shame, ladies and gentlemen of the extreme right? we already said this in this parliament in 2018 in the resolution on the rise of neo-fascism in europe. neo-fascism is full of gender-violence deniers.
member of the commission. – madam president, (start of speech off mic) ... i promised you during the hearing in the year 2019 that i would work for the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention, and in the meantime, i will also present our own proposal for legislation, and that is what i am doing. i am glad that many of you are in agreement with this legislative proposal. data from the united nations shows that around 47 000 women and girls were killed by their intimate partners or family members, mainly men, in 2020, so, on average, one woman or girl every 11 minutes. so indeed, this is a topic that should concern men, and i say this every time that there is this kind of debate in this parliament or anywhere else. i always feel in these circumstances that we are preaching to the converted. so, of course, more men are welcome and actually expected to speak in these kinds of debates. in this debate, we had 29 women who spoke. only two men put their name on the list to speak, and one came here to tell us no to the istanbul convention. that’s the situation which we have to fight against every single day. it seems that men don’t want to hear us speak on this topic when we know that, every 11 minutes, a woman and a girl are killed by their intimate partner or a member of their family every day. i said we must continue to pursue accession to the istanbul convention. as we promised, we prepared, as i said, the directive to have a european instrument to fight violence against women. i urge the co-legislators to adopt this as soon as possible please. we must work also on prevention. of course, this goes without saying, and we must work more for women’s financial independence, which is directly linked to the situation of violence in families of domestic violence, because it is very difficult for a woman to leave an abusive relationship if she is financially dependent on her abuser, especially so if she has children. so in all our other work that we are doing with regard to more women in the labour market, we know that there are 7.7 million women who are not in the labour market because of care responsibilities and, therefore, that is why we have our care package. it is all linked – because if these 7.7 million women are in the labour market, are working, are earning their livelihood, then it will be less likely for them to accept living in situations of domestic violence. our goal is clear: to eliminate violence against women and girls and support the survivors wherever this happens, whether in private and public spaces or at work. a zero—tolerance policy on sexualized violence and rape should become the norm everywhere. the eu will stay at the forefront of this international mobilisation to defend the rights of every woman and every girl to live freely and safely no matter where they live in europe. we stand with all women and we will defend the support and protection of all women and girls because women’s rights are the pillar of just, open, developed and democratic societies. no one and nothing should be allowed to deprive women of our freedom.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. on 16 july 2019, ursula von der leyen, then candidate for president of the european commission, said: the union should accede to the istanbul convention. she said that accession to the convention was one of the commission's key priorities. it has been 1190 days since the commission was established, since ursula von der leyen took over as commission president. this shows how mrs von der leyen treats her promises and the issues that are crucial for eu citizens. i will remind you, because perhaps the commission has forgotten that equality is one of the values of the community. i will remind you, because perhaps the commission does not know, that violence against women is one of the most drastic forms of discrimination. the fact that women cannot feel safe in their own homes is one of the greatest pathologies of the 21st century! and a non-violence directive is not enough. we need a comprehensive system to combat violence against women, based on the istanbul convention. we need to send a clear signal to millions of european women that the commission is serious about their problems, that it will tackle the issues of prevention, education, awareness raising, women's protection and the prosecution of perpetrators! i was happy to see a woman head the commission. i was hoping that women's health and safety would finally become important. today marks the 1191st day of ursula von der leyen's term of office and the istanbul convention has still not been ratified by the union.
the next item is the commission statement on the political situation in tunisia (2022/2869 (rsp)).
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the active role of the lukashenka regime in the war against ukraine (2022/2882 ((rsp)).
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! belarus is not russia, that's obvious. but from the territory of belarus... (the president interrupted the speaker) - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! belarus is not russia, that's obvious, but from the territory of belarus, lukashenko allows the launch of missiles at civilian targets in ukraine. without lukashenka's help, the crime in bucha would have been impossible. lukashenko sells territory to belarus for rubles and today russian military groups are basically occupying the country because lukashenko is not accepted by his society. the belarusians do not accept participation in this war and support for these activities. that is why we must very strongly include sanctions against lukashenko and his regime in the 9th package, but at the same time give maximum support to the belarusian people and the opposition, which is united today and has its representation. i call on the interim council, on svetlana cichanouska, but above all on the council, to become a partner of all the european institutions. and one thing, let's not call lukashenko the president. he's a usurper, he's a war criminal, his place is before the hague tribunal, just like putin's. they're both war criminals and they'll be brought to justice. we not only wait for a free and democratic belarus, but we must support the actions to make it a reality. it will be a free and democratic belarus, long live belarus!
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we've been debating for months whether belarus would join the war, whether its soldiers would fight in ukraine. we're questioning president cichanousk and the political democratic diaspora on this matter. it must be remembered that belarus is already involved in this conflict. the first phase of the conflict began last summer. then the hybrid action against poland and lithuania began. lukashenko has provided the ground for an attack on ukraine, and he gives full support to putin. belarus should be subject to the same political-diplomatic, economic and civilizational sanctions as russia. lukashenko should be treated as an enemy of peace, as a war criminal. he deserves the international criminal court.
madam president! i hope these translation problems are not a hybrid attack by lukashenka. and seriously, i don't think it's a secret to anyone in this house that lukashenko today, alongside figures like kadyrov, is a kind of putin push, very useful. and we saw that when this hybrid attack, which we have been talking about here, started on poland and lithuania, and how extremely naïvely, also in this house, you approached this putin aide. when you attacked my country, poland, from this place, when you criticized the beginning of the construction of the wall, this dam on the polish-belarusian border, extremely emotional and unwise - not to say harsher: stupid - words fell here. today, when finland builds such a wall on the border with russia, fortunately, such words do not fall. and returning to belarus, it is obvious that free belarusians, proud belarusians do not support this putin's aide. but he still remains dangerous, he still remains dangerous.
madam president, commissioner and fellow members, i welcome this debate this evening. there has not been enough focus on the role of belarus in this war. by being complicit, lukashenko is part of putin’s war machine. mr lukashenko, it’s clear the people of belarus do not want this war. the belarusian people want freedom and democracy. they want rid of putin and they want rid of you. they stood against you in 2020 and they stand against you still today. you say you can’t pay your foreign debt because of sanctions. well there’s a simple solution: remove the russian troops from your country and back the heroic ukrainian people. if not, you will pay an even higher price. we in europe must get tougher on those who side with putin. if lukashenko continues to go down this road, his regime should be hit with the same sanctions as russia. they must be held accountable for their actions. we must support the democratic people of belarus, the people that were elected in 2020. if europe backs democracy, europe will thrive. and i ask you today to support ukraine, support the opposition in belarus, and we must do more to support them and ensure that putin’s war comes to an end as soon as possible.
madam president, (start of speech off microphone) ... government. lukashenko has sold the belarusian people’s international sovereignty to maintain the dictatorship and his power. lukashenko is just a servant to putin. his dependence is so deep that he is willing to deploy his people into the joint regional military group while letting thousands of russian soldiers move to belarus. lukashenko is well aware that most belarusians are against involvement in the russian war. hundreds of belarusian volunteers are fighting for ukraine. belarusians do not want to fight ukraine for russian interests. we appreciate the courage and effort of the democratic opposition facing oppression in belarus. the eu must maintain its pressure on the regime and implement appropriate sanctions. we call on the commission to submit this proposal and the member states to respond appropriately. we support the democratic belarusian opposition and its leader, sviatlana tsikhanouskaya, in their fight, including journalists and students, who continue their fight in exile. we will stand by you until the freedom prevails. (exclamation in belarusian)
madam president! just as putin changed his plans and abandoned his plan to democratize russia for fear of staying in power, so lukashenko will agree to occupy his own country to protect his dictatorship. another evidence of lukashenka's active role in this war is the hundreds of missiles fired from the territory of belarus towards ukraine. putin is still putting increasing pressure on lukashenko to actively join the ground war. i appeal to you not to identify the belarusian regime with the belarusian people. remember their daily protests against the rigged elections? i am ashamed that between my country, poland, and belarus stands a wall of shame. every nation wants to live in freedom and the regimes in belarus and russia will eventually fall, the wall will fall too.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. each year, before the summit, the g20 agriculture ministers meet to identify the main themes to be included in their statement to inform the g20 leaders. question can the chairman's summary of the outcome of the summit inform the discussion at the next leaders' summit, as no joint statement has been issued? i doubt whether the proposals to promote agriculture, trade or digital farming are in line with the european union's agricultural policy and the european green deal and whether they will ensure a level playing field and food security. in this context, i would ask the commissioner to invite the polish prime minister mateusz morawiecki to the g20 summit in november, so that he can present poland's and other countries of the three seas' view of global food security to the g20 and present the progress made so far in this regard with regard to assistance to ukraine. i would point out once again that europe has an unfair system of direct subsidies which infringes the principle of non-discrimination between citizens on grounds of nationality and the prohibition of discrimination between producers within the union.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the destruction of cultural heritage is one of the most cruel political instruments of the kremlin in its armed aggression against ukraine, and not only since the beginning of the war on february 24. he has been involved in the illegal annexation of crimea and crimea-west bank territories by russia. what's happening now is just a continuation of that policy on a larger scale. many ukrainian cultural sites are located in the territories now occupied by the russian federation. in its resolution, the european parliament condemns russia's deliberate destruction of ukraine's cultural heritage and the looting and smuggling of cultural property, and calls them war crimes under the 1954 hague convention. this is a very important political signal for the ukrainian cultural circles. russia is trying to destroy not only ukraine's cultural heritage, but also its national uniqueness, tradition and ultimately ukraine's right to exist. in order to counter this barbaric destruction, parliament calls on the commission and the member states to integrate culture and cultural heritage into the european union's humanitarian aid to ukraine and to provide targeted support to ukrainian cultural operators, local cultural activities, universities and civil society in shaping and developing ukraine's reconstruction. to this end, a dedicated european rapid response and recovery mechanism should be established, with a particular focus on the cultural and creative sectors, to support artists. one thing is certain if we want to support ukraine, we must also protect, preserve and promote ukrainian culture for future generations.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. russia's aggression against ukraine has brought death and destruction. we know that ukrainian national heritage and cultural assets are also being destroyed. the ministry of culture and information policy of ukraine publishes information on the ruined objects of historical, cultural and religious value. since february, dozens of monuments, museums, theaters, cultural centers, libraries, monuments have been destroyed. at least 270 religious buildings were completely destroyed or damaged to varying degrees. these are churches, mosques, synagogues, buildings of religious communities of ukraine. it is also known that the russians have looted museums and sacred objects. according to the ukrainian website, uniformed russian thieves have robbed nearly forty museums so far. thousands of historical objects were looted, including unique pieces of jewelry, weapons, coins, collections of historical icons, and valuable prints and paintings. how difficult it will be to recover these artifacts from russia is shown by poland's experience after world war ii. it is noteworthy that the ukrainian authorities, having learned from their own experience, are now making sure that valuable museum objects do not end up in the fighting zone. president of ukraine volodymyr zelensky has officially applied for the historic center of odessa to be included in the unesco world heritage list. together with ukrainian cultural workers, we must work to protect ukrainian cultural heritage, to promote culture and the creative field. i therefore support, first of all, the provisions of the resolution calling for attention to be paid to the protection of this heritage, support for the documentation of all attacks, especially against heritage protected by international conventions. it is important to note that any financial support to ukraine in the field of culture should not jeopardise the funding of the creative europe programme. i believe that the care for the ukrainian national heritage will renew the awareness that europe will be a family of nations if it combines the ideal of unity with the consideration of the richness and diversity of the cultures and traditions of the individual nations. european unity will only last if we build it on the spiritual values that once shaped europe, and not by filling the concept of 'european values' with strange content that has nothing to do with the true traditions of europe.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the words are very important, the declarations are very important. it's very important to have that kind of verbal support, but it seems that the most important thing is the concrete. i would like to say a few words about such concrete things. since the first days of the war in ukraine, the polish side, my country, has been involved in aid, which in the area of culture takes the form of direct support for individual ukrainian artists, through support for educational and cultural institutions, to actions to protect cultural heritage. in parallel to its activities at community level, poland has taken a number of measures to support cultural people from ukraine. residencies, scholarship and grant programmes have been launched for ukrainian artists and their families. for example, in response to residencies for people of theatre, music and dance, more than a hundred institutions have already expressed their willingness to host ukrainian artists. about 340 artists have expressed interest in using the residence, and more applications are still coming in. the ministry of culture and national heritage has allocated over one million euros for this purpose. similarly, in the area of film production, a subsidy programme dedicated to polish-ukrainian film initiatives created by the polish film institute is being established. here the amount proposed for this support is also about one million euros. in poland, since the beginning of the war, there is a team, now the help center for ukrainian heritage, whose main task is to respond to specific needs reported by institutions from ukraine. to date, the centre has established partnerships with more than 50 institutions. it provides specialist equipment and materials for the professional protection of buildings and collections, as well as material assistance to enable daily operations. in the first period of the war, 19 transports worth millions of euros were sent to ukraine.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, colleagues. the war in ukraine has already become a painful reality. ukraine and its people are fighting for freedom, for the right to have their own country, to live in peace and to build their future. ukraine is fighting for our european values, for democracy, for the european way of life, for human rights and freedoms, so this is also our european war, not only for human lives but also for cultural heritage. identity is the victims and hostages of war. the deliberate destruction of culture is part of russia's war against ukraine. europe has known this since the first day of the war. we are focused and we are helping ukraine with everything we can. cultural solidarity with ukraine is essential. russia is not only seeking to destroy ukraine through military action, but is also engaged in a wide-ranging disinformation campaign in an attempt to create a sense of fear and distrust among the ukrainian people. the commission should also be able to provide support to the ukrainian authorities in the implementation of the eu-ukraine association agreement. indeed, since the beginning of the war, europe has urgently mobilised financial resources to help people in the cultural and artistic fields who are fleeing the war. the ukrainian artists and cultural workers will be vital in rebuilding ukraine, bringing society together. today in ukraine we see the destruction of cultural heritage by russian forces, the looting of cultural objects. we must do everything possible to stop this and preserve the cultural heritage of ukraine. the european commission has already put forward a proposal for a recovery measure for ukraine. and i very much hope that the restoration and preservation of ukraine's cultural heritage will be an integral part of this plan.
madam president, the debate on the promotion of ukrainian culture is extremely important. first of all, i want to say that the basic thesis is valid: in order to stop the destruction of ukrainian culture, it is necessary to expel the russians from ukraine as soon as possible. and for that, we need our european economic and military assistance. so the general thesis is: if we want to do something for ukrainian culture, we have to continue to support ukraine militarily and economically. and when we talk about specific cultural support, i see two main themes: support for living culture, the commissioner mentioned the programmes that are here. in my opinion, even more money could be provided, millions of euros are involved - amounts that are probably not enough. but not only in poland, as my colleague said, but also in the czech republic, there are a number of artists, students of art schools, who have found temporary asylum in prague, for example, and here they can continue to practice their art and study. the most we can do for living culture is to support ukrainian artists. but what i consider perhaps even more important is how after the war which i hope will end as soon as possible and will be victorious for democracy and freedom, that is, ukraine will win how to contribute to the destruction of cultural heritage to be restored ? it is extremely important for preserving and strengthening the identity of the ukrainian nation. and that's where we're going to have to play a key role. to have some kind of marshall plan for the restoration of ukrainian culture, ukrainian monuments, ukrainian museums and galleries. we're going to have to invest here because what connects us, ukraine and europe, is our shared cultural heritage. and i hope that when the war is over, we will be very active in this matter and contribute to the fact that some of the monuments that have been completely destroyed will be rebuilt and those that have been damaged will be repaired.
madam president, we are in solidarity with ukraine not only with guns and tanks. defence and territorial integrity is an absolute priority and we all know that. we all tasted war in our past, but ukrainians are able to fight for their country that strong because they know who they are, what history they have, what language and culture they own. that’s why putin, mr butter, started the war. he treated ukrainians as a less important kind of russians, who are using the history of his country as their own. we all know, and not only in this chamber, how wrong he was. everyone and anyone has the right to state its integrity, state its own culture, state its own language, and i’m not saying any magical populism right now – i’m just recalling international acts. we have to be proud of the ukrainian nation who is fighting against putin, against the effort to destroy their heritage, culture and nationality. the hand of the devil has no mercy: putin touched even the untouchable. he sent bombs on babyn yar, the holocaust memorial where thousands of jewish people were executed by nazis. what a shame. that’s why it is so important to financially support ukrainian soil and borders, ukrainian culture and heritage. so, madam commissioner, the european parliament is asking for cultural recovery in europe, but what about the culture that doesn’t need to be recovered, but needs to be protected? we all remember what happened to the minority safepack in the european commission. everyone has written ‘united in diversity’. the eu diplomats keep saying that, but we don’t need words; we need to act. let’s do it simultaneously. let’s support ukraine and let’s support our regions. (the speaker concluded the speech in an unofficial language)
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. thank you so much for letting me ask you a question. i wanted to ask you a question because you mentioned the food aspect of this deep-sea fisheries problem. would you like to expand on your statement? what did you mean? what food drama could this cause?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is not just declarations, not just words, but concrete, concrete help that is very important. i would like to refer to poland, my country, which is in the vanguard of this humanitarian aid, this aid for the protection of cultural heritage, and what we are discussing today, namely aid for ukrainian science. we in poland have proposed special legislative solutions, including a number of facilities for students and researchers, concerning the continuation of education, research in poland. citizens of ukraine who entered poland legally after 24 february of the current year from ukraine and declared that they worked as academic teachers in a university on the territory of ukraine and have the required professional title, academic degree, degree in arts or title of professor and the appropriate qualifications to occupy the given position may be employed in a university as academic teachers without a competition. we also launched a nationwide information portal for people from ukraine. the main purpose of the portal is to improve the process of searching for information on study and employment opportunities in polish universities and research institutions in poland for ukrainian candidates. the portal is addressed to current and prospective students, doctoral students and employees of universities, research institutes of ukraine. the portal helps to find, among other things, the offer of studies both in the mode of recruitment for a full course of study and the continuation of previously started studies at one of the ukrainian universities, doctoral schools. there are also other cooperation offers: internships, scholarships and job offers in institutions of the polish higher education and science system. lots of those. ukrainian science needs help.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. there is no more important issue today than supporting the security of europeans, and it is good that the european council is raising this issue. we need to be efficient and we need to act fast. gas prices, energy prices are critical for households, for industry, for businesses. what can be done quickly and effectively? the ets, which leads to speculation and speculative price inflation, can be suspended. and you can do that very quickly and you can actually get these prices to stop going crazy. there is also the second point that the president has raised here, which is solidarity and equal opportunities for individual member states in the energy market transformation. renewable energy -- yes, of course, but energy security, this energy mix, is renewable, but we're going to need fossil and nuclear for a while. but as a pole, i can't help saying that, madam president. to make this transition, the european commission must take account of the circumstances of each country. we need time and we need money. so, madam president, this is the time when i say 'i'm checking'. please suspend this unnecessary, almost open fight with the polish government. we want to talk, the polish government has compromised. this is the moment when we can get poland to receive funds under the kpo. the polish deputy foreign minister is here in brussels right now, conducting talks. there's time. i'm saying it again. not words, but deeds, madam chairman.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. thank you for accepting that question. namely, you and your group - which is very influential here in the european parliament - are very much in favour of renewable energy. mrs. von der leyen said a moment ago that we could get 90 new gigawatts of renewable energy. do you have any idea what it costs to generate 1 gw of power and where we'll get the money for it? because saying we need 90, 180 or 300 new gw is okay. i just wonder who's gonna pay for all this? what's your idea and where's the money for it?
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. thank you very much, mr president, and thank you very much for accepting my question. my question is that you are from germany and you have a lot of experience in renewable energy construction for many years. explain to me this paradox, why every year you build more and more renewable energy, get more and more renewable energy and have been buying more and more gas and coal from russia in recent years? why did this happen?
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i'll just say it again: it makes me wonder why, despite the fact that in germany you have a lot of experience in building renewable energy, year after year for the past few years you have been buying a lot of energy from russia?
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the repowereu programme is a step in the right direction. in response to the difficulties and disruptions in the global energy market caused by russia's invasion of ukraine, the commission presented a plan to become independent of russian raw materials. repowereu is also a plan for energy saving, green energy production and diversification of supply. it is backed by financial and legal means to build new infrastructure and a new energy system. you could say history has come full circle. exactly 70 years ago, the european coal and steel community was founded. the problem is that the polish government doesn't import any european money against the citizens. yesterday's poll: 64% of polish citizens blame the polish government for the lack of european funds. prime minister morawiecki, law and justice members, will you also not take these measures because of mr. zbigniew ziobro? is the maintenance of the ruling coalition more important than the interests of the country and the future of the young generation? you've already wasted a decade of energy transition, so now it's time to decide: either you're with the european union or you're with putin.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, i thank pascal durand for his tremendous work on this dossier. the report is undoubtedly a big improvement in comparison to the initial commission proposal, which, as we recall, laid out ambitious mandatory reporting requirements, but only in the field of corporate environmental sustainability. however, we must remember that sustainability does not only concern environmental matters. this is why it’s important that the information disclosed by companies should also cover issues such as anti-discrimination, diversity, gender—equality measures, as well as instruments to achieve greater participation of women in leadership positions, just to name a few. i am very happy to have the clear reference to the existing references in the report, and thank you very much for that, but we must remember that this kind of approach will not help us to achieve full equality. the european gender equality institute shows clearly we need 60 years in the european union for reaching complete gender equality. and if we will not put it in our wider perspective, we will never achieve it, commissioner, so we need to make some improvements in this directive.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. on behalf of the ecr group, i also express a positive opinion on the draft law on operational resilience and digital operational resilience. i also want to say that the chairman, billy kelleher, has been very transparent in his conduct of the proceedings. we could all have commented. anyone who wanted to speak out had their say. what's valuable is that we've simplified this original system a little bit. we made some important changes, for example, to what we believe to be unnecessary detail. it was possible to avoid these provisions, also in respect of the protection of private property, to apply measures to the level of risk. all of this has been the subject of our discussions. and i hope that this whole project will help to increase the ability of companies to survive in the event of hybrid attacks, disruptions, or all kinds of cyber-attack problems. we all know that cybersecurity is a key element in supporting the stability of the european financial system, and that is why the ecr group supports this solution.
in writing. working on operational digital resilience is one of the many issues related to the digitisation of finance that we are currently working on. progress in this area, the number of solutions on offer, as well as changes in consumer mindsets and habits, all require us to react quickly to ensure the safety of customers and financial institutions and to prevent money laundering. the final decision of the parliament is pending on two other regulations, which i had the pleasure of working on: the markets for crypto-assets (mica) and the information accompanying transfers of funds (ftr). both regulations aim to adapt the rules of the game to the new realities and to legalise the trading of crypto-assets. the most difficult part of this work was to develop appropriate definitions: the mechanisms encountered in the world of digital finance are very different from traditional ones and require thoughtful solutions. the digital euro is still a backdrop to our discussions, and is also seen as an opportunity to strengthen the role of the european currency. in this context, it is worth noting that a digital euro could support innovation, the digitalisation of the economy and provide a safer alternative to cryptocurrencies. however, the need to ensure consumer safety and privacy should be taken into account in its development: increased scrutiny is certainly not what eu citizens want and expect from us.
in writing. croatia is the country that most deserves to enjoy the full benefits of being a schengen country. i feel very strongly that this country should benefit from the free movement of citizens from the member states, which has a positive impact on fast and smooth travel and, therefore, on the development of tourism, including business tourism. as we know, the free movement of people also affects the free movement of goods, which is very important, especially in the current economic situation. i am confident that the european commission's doubts about alleged examples of croatia's violation of migrants' rights will be clarified quickly. the commission should take a firm and calm stance on the levica's allegations calling for croatia to bear the consequences and refrain from strengthening monitoring mechanisms. it is easy to accuse and blame croatian border officials for abuses, violence or illegal returns of migrants. but we must remember that the specifics of protecting the eu's external borders are far more complex and difficult than left-wing activists can imagine, especially with russia's ongoing open aggression against ukraine. therefore, as ecr shadow rapporteur and co-author of this report, i believe that the european parliament should support its text and that croatia should benefit from the benefits of schengen as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. this year is the european year of youth. i am therefore pleased that, with young people in mind, it was our committee on culture and education that prepared the first ever report on esports and video games in parliament. i would like to congratulate and thank rapporteur laurence farreng for her commitment and excellent cooperation. thank you! video games are an important ecosystem for the european union, both economically and culturally. it's also one of the few creative sectors that has seen growth during the covid crisis. it is worth noting that video games have a positive educational role and e-sports can help develop many skills. video games can be a valuable teaching tool, engaging students in the curriculum, developing their digital skills and creative thinking. almost half the players are women. it's been shown that girls who play video games are three times more likely to study math. we need an ambitious and long-term strategy in europe, because challenges are emerging, such as the shortage of talent. we need to invest in training and visa facilitation and provide reliable infrastructure and connectivity. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. given the potential for addiction and irresponsible online behaviour, the european union should take a responsible approach to video games and esports by promoting them as part of a healthy lifestyle and physical activity.
in writing. the draft second directive on network and information security is crucial to raising the level of cybersecurity in the eu and in the member states. the directive should be the basic horizontal regulation establishing a common and in principle unchanging framework for the functioning of the cybersecurity system, including in particular the requirements and institutional framework for reporting and supporting incident response. however, sector-specific regulations should not change the substance and the basic principles of the functioning of the cybersecurity system, including, inter alia, the uniform incident reporting system, the security requirements or the framework for cooperation between competent authorities. fragmentation of the rules in this area should be avoided. in particular, the following proposals are worth supporting: extending the scope of the directive to new sectors, including public administrations, and introducing a division of actors into essential and important; assigning jurisdiction to dns (domain names system), top-level domain (tld) registry, cloud service providers, data centre service providers and content delivery network providers; linking crisis management to the cybersecurity system; developing a mechanism for cooperation between eu member states on cross-border incidents or cross-border cybersecurity; introducing rules for determining the level of penalties for breaches of cybersecurity obligations in a way that removes, but is proportionate to, the motivation and the adoption of appropriate security standards and regulations.
mr. chairman, please! as usual, ladies and gentlemen, in your report on combating discrimination, you promote genuine discrimination among many legitimate demands. for example, referring to the report on the alleged rule of law, where, as you know very well, it is stated explicitly that what one country can do in the judicial system, other countries cannot. you yourself write why because they have a worse culture and traditions. what is that if not racism? i say, what is it if not racism? and the financial discrimination of an entire nation, poland, on trumped-up charges, just because people choose differently there? that people are more conservative, defending traditional values, defending god, religious freedom, the true definition of gender? that's the only reason they're discriminated against. ladies and gentlemen, if you want to fight true discrimination, then attacking a nation for differing views is the absolute and fulfilling definition of it. so before you condemn others, it's worth paying attention to yourself.
madam president, unlike my colleague, i voted against this report with absolute conviction, because this report is nothing but a hypocritical, double-dealing, badge-hopping exercise. when this room understands and sees that in bitola, in ohrid, real racism, real xenophobia, real hatred is developing on the basis of the national origin of the local bulgarians there, this room is silent and pretends that it has not heard, has not seen and has not eaten or smelled onions. this is wrong. that's two-faced. that is absolutely hypocritical. when the serbian authorities stop celebrating the day of the western frontiers and continue their illegal occupation, we write and say: "people, this is real racism, this is real xenophobia", and someone there makes some invented declarations to have a clear conscience and make himself more, more and more humanitarian than the others. my colleague said a moment ago that there can be no selection of which racism is worse, which is better. you either condemn the manifestation of such actions or you don't. you can't pretend to be blind in one eye, you can't ignore things that are happening right under your nose in a country that wants to be an eu candidate. this is just a disgrace.
madam president, i have supported this report on my own initiative. i am convinced that any racial discrimination is unacceptable in the european union. it's unacceptable anywhere from the state level to racial discrimination in the workplace. it's unacceptable, of course, in private, in the media, anywhere. i'm surprised by the rise of anti-semitism within the european union, for example. i think that's very alarming. we have enshrined equality before the law, before the law, as a fundamental rule in our founding documents, and it is important that racial discrimination be considered one of the most egregious forms of discrimination that can exist. i don't want to compare them, but really, if you're judging someone based on their skin color, it's just disgusting. and i'm glad that we've focused on supporting organizations that are fighting this racial discrimination, of course, on action plans in individual states that are to be adopted against racial discrimination. i was happy to support all of this.
that concludes this item.
we are now coming to the end of our session. the minutes of today's sitting and yesterday's sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies named in them.
the next meeting will take place in strasbourg from 21 to 24 november 2022.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 10 november 2022.
good afternoon, dear colleagues, welcome back. i have a few announcements from my side before we go to the adoption of the agenda. this will take quite a while. first of all, on afghanistan, 15 months after the fall of kabul, women are increasingly being squeezed out of public life and refused entry to public spaces. reports from kandahar indicate that the world will soon bear witness to a return of public executions, stonings, floggings and punitive amputations. despite initial promises to protect women’s rights, years of progress are being rolled back. the european parliament is committed to the people of afghanistan, not to its rulers. the taliban want women to be invisible. we want them to thrive. and until they can regain their rightful place in society we will continue to amplify their voice. last week, we saw a death sentence imposed on arrested protesters in iran. the european parliament strongly opposes capital punishment and violent oppression of legitimate protests. i urge the iranian authorities to stop, here and now. the european parliament welcomes the addition of 29 individuals and 3 entities to the list of those subject to restrictive measures or sanctions. we call on member states to keep the pressure up. in response to the unacceptable iranian sanctioning of members of this house, let me announce that there shall be no direct contact between european parliament delegations and committees with official iranian counterparts until further notice. we will not look away from those who look to us from the streets of iran. we are with you. we will stay with you. dear colleagues, the turkish airstrikes we are seeing in northern syria and iraq after the bomb attack in istanbul are claiming more lives and causing more bloodshed. let me, from here, call on the turkish authorities to exercise restraint and respect for international law and standards. also, last week’s explosions and casualties in poland are proof that we must not let down our guard. russia’s continued illegal invasion of ukraine continues to cause innocent lives to be lost. our thoughts and solidarity are with the victims, their loved ones, the people of poland and all the victims of russian attacks in ukraine. this week we also mark the 90th anniversary of the holodomor, the great famine of 1932 and 1933, when millions of people in ukraine were starved intentionally by the soviet regime. ninety years later, ukrainians have to fight again to preserve their lives, identity and freedom. we will not forget the fate that stalin had in store for ukrainians during holodomor. nor will we forget russian crimes committed in bucha, irpin, mariupol, izium and in so many other places in ukraine. dear colleagues, the attack on two police officers in brussels last week – killing one, wounding the other – reminds us of the risks our police forces face daily. we must remain vigilant to threats to our internal security, and the european parliament works so closely with the belgian police that it is difficult for this not to feel personal to all of us. our thoughts are with the families of the victims.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sittings of 9 and 10 november are available. before i give the floor to some colleagues, i see there are no comments and therefore the minutes are approved.
madam president, i have a point of order. in addition to your remarks, on article 120 on human rights, last weekend fifa didn’t allow the captains of the national teams to wear the ‘one love’ armband, and this is a breach of their position. i ask you and the european parliament to condemn this behaviour strongly, because we are talking about human rights everywhere, and yet when you want to show something at a very big event then it is not allowed by the organisation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to refer to the rules of procedure. on 21 november nine years ago, young ukrainians took to the streets, draped in european flags, to protest against the failure to sign the association agreement with the european union, which was not signed by the pro-russian president yanukovych at the time. the euromaidan movement was born, mr president, and for three months it was held in the central square of kiev, calling loudly for a european future, for the right to choose its own path within the european union and for ukraine to be a democracy and not a country subject to an autocrat. this desire for freedom was curbed in 2014 by the occupation of crimea and then by the beginning of the war in donbass, but even today this desire for freedom is firm in the face of the bombs, in the face of the deaths that russia has been inflicting on the ukrainian population for nine months now. and so i would like the thoughts of this house today to be turned to the memory of those young people who paid with their lives, because so many were killed. their commitment to the dream is the european perspective. and i would like us to remember how many people are resisting putin's criminal war every day. kiev's place is in our community and we must reiterate this every day with force.
following the election of søren gade, linea søgaard-lidell and peter kofod as members of the national parliament of denmark, parliament takes note of the vacancy of their seats from 15 november 2022, in accordance with the rules of procedure.
nikos androulakis has submitted a request for defence of his parliamentary immunity in the context of the complaint he has made against the greek authorities on phone tapping. that request is referred to the committee on legal affairs.
hervé juvin is no longer a member of the id group and sits with the non—attached members as of 10 november 2022.
the renew europe, verts/ale and id groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
in relation to the decisions by the tran and libe committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) announced on wednesday 9 november, i have received no request for a vote in parliament. the committees have therefore started their negotiations.
i was also informed that no objections have been raised within the conference of committee chairs to the recommendations by the econ committee not to oppose two delegated acts pursuant to rule 111(6) of the rules of procedure. the recommendations are available on the plenary webpage. if no objections are raised by a political group or members reaching at least the low threshold within 24 hours of this announcement, the recommendations shall be deemed to have been approved; otherwise, they will be put to the vote.
i would like to inform you that, together with the president of the council, i shall today sign eight acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 17 november pursuant to the rule 157 has been distributed. i would like to inform you that i have received three requests for urgent procedure from budg committee and from the commission pursuant to rule 163 on the following legislative files:– amending council regulation (eu, euratom) 2020/2093 of 17 december 2020 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years 2021 to 2027;– amending regulation (eu, euratom) 2018/1046 as regards the establishment of a diversified funding strategy as a general borrowing method; and– ‘macro-financial assistance+’, the instrument for providing support to ukraine for 2023. the vote on these three requests will be taken tomorrow. if adopted, the vote will be held on thursday. we now move to changes requested by political groups. for monday, the renew group has asked that the title of the commission statement entitled ‘state of play of the negotiations between the commission and the hungarian government linked to the conditionality regulation and the rrp’ be changed to ‘freezing of european funds to hungary under the rrf and the conditionality regulation’ with resolution. i give the floor to moritz körner to move the request on behalf of the renew group.
moritz, just to be clear, you are proposing the change of title to this: ‘assessment of hungary’s compliance with the rule of law conditions under the conditionality regulation and the state of play of the hungarian rrp’. does anybody want to speak against? i don’t see that to be the case. so we put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament agreed to the request)so the title is changed. also for today, the left group has requested that the commission statement on the ‘situation of human rights in the context of the fifa world cup in qatar’ be wound up with a resolution to be voted on thursday. i give the floor to manon aubry to move the request on behalf of the left group.
does anybody want to speak against? i see that’s not the case. so we will put the request to a vote by roll call. (parliament agreed to the request)therefore, we will have the debate, which will be wound up with a resolution. the vote will be on thursday. so i’ll give you the deadlines. for the motions for resolutions, the text has to be available by tuesday 22 november at noon. amendments to the motions for resolutions and the joint motion for resolution, wednesday 23 november at noon. amendments to the joint motion for resolution, wednesday 23 november at 13.00. split votes and separate votes, wednesday at 19.00. also for wednesday, the ppe group has asked that the title of the council and the commission statements on ‘eliminating violence against women’ be changed to ‘eliminating violence against women and combating sex crimes, including in the case of the recently adopted spanish law that effectively reduces sentences of convicted offenders’. i give the floor to rosa estaràs ferragut to move the request on behalf of the ppe group.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, 25 november is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. it is a priority for the presidency, for all the european institutions and for all the women and men of europe and the world. we're going to have a debate on that on wednesday. we all agree unanimously, but in spain a law has been published and passed which reduces the sentences for rapists and those who attack women's sexual freedom. there have been more than five releases of pedophiles and rapists of women, releases, reductions of sentences from six to eight years and so on. it is urgent that we debate this matter that day to stop this cascade of releases and the futility of this law. it is not ideology that i am calling for in this parliament; i am appealing to the consciences of the men and women of this parliament. we have said on many occasions that violence against women is a heinous attack on human rights. we said no more. now we can prove it. please, let's stop this law.
i now give the floor to iratxe garcía pérez to speak against.
madam president, it is true that november 25 is the international day against gender-based violence. since i became a member of parliament, this parliament has had a debate on this subject to unite our voices in our differences, but with a clear message of solidarity and support for women who are victims of gender-based violence, for women who have been killed simply because they are women. macho terrorism kills: it kills in europe and in the rest of the world. and we need to have a debate like we have every year. but this proposal from the group of the european people's party seems to me to have little scruple and no respect. there are few scruples, because national laws are changed in national parliaments. this is a european parliament and we must respect the debates we have here. and so let us bear in mind that much more respect must be shown to the european parliament. and i respect the victims, the women who have been killed. you can't let him lie to you like this. more respect for women victims of gender violence. i call for a vote against this proposal by the people's group, which is merely trying to have a partisan debate in what deserves to be a debate in support of all european women.
mr séjourné, do you want to come in?
i put the request to a vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request)the agenda therefore remains unchanged. for wednesday as well, the id group has asked that the commission statement on ‘judicial annulment of the 2021 berlin state election due to numerous irregularities’ be added as a third item in the afternoon. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended until 22.00. i give the floor to christine anderson to move the request on behalf of the id group.
would anybody like to speak against? i see that not to be the case, and therefore we open the vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request)the agenda therefore remains unchanged. the agenda is adopted, and the order of business is thus established. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the next item is the commission statement on the assessment of hungary’s compliance with the rule of law conditions under the conditionality regulation and state of play of the hungarian rrp (2022/2935(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for your organisation of this debate, and i just ask for your attention. if i have well followed the previous discussions is an important debate about the rule of law that we will have. so the european commission is highly appreciative of the commitment of this parliament in promoting and defending the rule of law in all the member states. in this perspective, it is important for us to have a constructive dialogue on the enforcement of the conditionality regulation and on the opportunity that the recovery and resilience plans offer to drive change in the member states – in this case hungary – to improve and strengthen the rule of law situation. today, within the european union, we have a whole range of instruments that the commission is ready and has proven to be able to use effectively to protect the eu budget from breaches to the principles of the rule of law. different instruments apply different methodologies and are subject to different rules. the conditionality regulation aims at protecting the eu budget and the financial interests of the union against breaches of the principles of the rule of law, compromising the correct use and management of eu funds. this concerns breaches of the principles of the rule of law that have a sufficiently direct link with the implementation of the union budget or the protection of the financial interests of the union. this requirement is clear from conditionality regulation and it has also been stressed by the court of justice. the case in relation to hungary is the first case under the conditionality regulation. it was launched in april this year, when the commission notified hungary of its concerns relating to breaches of the principles of the rule of law. serious deficiencies and irregularities in the public procurement framework, and hungary’s inability to tackle corruption directly affects or risks affecting the sound financial management of the union. in its finding, the commission considered that in hungary there are systemic irregularities, deficiencies and weaknesses in public procurement, insufficiencies in detecting, preventing and correcting conflicts of interest, concerns related to the use of union funds by public interest trusts, weaknesses in the effective pursuit of investigations and prosecutions in cases involving union funds, and shortcomings in the anti-corruption framework. these issues and their recurrence over time demonstrate a systemic inability and failure on the part of the hungarian authorities to prevent decisions from being in breach of applicable law. to address all these concerns in a sustainable manner. hungary committed to 17 remedial measures that would address the risk to the eu budget related precisely to those breaches. these remedial measures were carefully assessed by the commission. in fact, on 18 september, when adopting the proposal for the council implementing decision, the college considered that if these remedial measures are correctly specified in enacting laws and implementing rules, and that the implementing steps are fully and effectively implemented, then taken together, in principle, they could be capable of addressing the issues at stake. however, pending the assessment of the details and implementation of the key implementation steps, the college considered that a risk remains for the eu budget. it was in view of this that the commission proposed budgetary protection measures to the council. since then there have been intense discussions with the hungarian authorities at technical and political level to monitor the steps taken by hungary in the implementation of its commitments. as set out in the commission’s proposal to the council, hungary committed to fully inform the commission about the fulfilment of the key implementation steps by 19 november. on that date, the commission received details of the measures taken by hungary so far. the commission is now carefully analysing all the information received, including the available versions of the legal text, to verify the full and correct implementation of the commitments by hungary. the commission will finalise its assessment on the basis of the information that it has received by that deadline. the intention of the commission is to come with its assessment without delay and to inform the parliament and the council. ultimately, the final decision on whether to adopt budgetary protection measures or not lies with the council. the assessment of the commission will feed into the process of the council and is meant to support the council in its decision. on 13 october, the council decided to extend the power to decide on the measures proposed by the commission by two months, namely until 19 december. this will allow for consideration of the fulfilment of the commitments by hungary. the council could then adopt, amend or reject the commission’s proposal by qualified majority. rest assured that, as has been the case since the adoption of the regulation and the start of this process, the commission will continue to provide parliament with information on the relevant developments and remains available to update you as needed. our ultimate objective under this mechanism is that the union budget is no longer at risk and we hope to achieve this as soon as possible through the adequate reforms in hungary. concerning the hungarian recovery and resilience plan, the commission had many discussions with hungary on their proposed plan. we have made progress on a number of issues over the past months. as for all the member states, the commission assesses the plan against the 11 criteria set out in the rrf regulation. the same criteria apply to all the member states. the criteria require notably an assessment of whether the measures address the challenges identified in the country-specific recommendations of the european semester or a significant subset of those recommendations and whether the plans provide an adequate control and audit mechanism. for hungary, the country-specific recommendations refer to the need to address challenges concerning the rule of law situation, in particular as regards anti-corruption measures and the independence of the judiciary. the commission has therefore been discussing the setting of milestones and targets in the hungarian plan that would cover these country-specific recommendations. we are now aiming to conclude our assessment on the recovery and resilience plan as soon as possible. the idea is that the milestones of the recovery and resilience plan also fully reflect the remedial measures proposed by hungary under the conditionality procedure. furthermore, the disbursement of funds to hungary should be linked to the fulfilment of milestones covering those remedial measures, as well as those linked to strengthening the independence of the judiciary. and about the independence of the judiciary, i have asked the minister of justice of hungary, judit varga, to implement completely the country-specific recommendations coming from the european semester and the recommendation that we have put in the last rule of law report, published in july 2022. we apply the tools at our disposal in good faith and with the firm intention to raise the rule of law standards and improve the situation on the ground. we will continue monitoring the legal and practical implementation of hungary’s commitments and will not let go until we are satisfied that the eu budget can be protected. so we are working on our own assessment. i thank you for this opportunity to explain what we are doing for the moment in those procedures. and, of course, thank you for your attention. i am looking forward to our debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, honourable commissioner, dear colleagues, almost four and a half years ago, we began the work here in parliament on the commission proposal on the conditionality regulation. and now – i mean, really, this time – we can talk about historical days and weeks because now we are finally here. the timeline set by the regulation is running to its end and, as the commissioner just explained, we are waiting for the final assessment from the commission – as far as the chosen criteria that, by the way, was mainly and also only about corruption, about public procurement, about conflict of interest – as to whether those criteria have now been met by hungary, whether the 17 remedial measures have been implemented by the deadline of 19 november. but the unified message from this parliament to the commission is actually the following. the real question, regardless of the exact text on the 17 measures, that everybody is waiting to get an answer to is: has hungary done enough so that there is no risk anymore or risk of affecting or seriously affecting the sound financial management of the eu budget? this is the real question. this is the assessment that everyone is now waiting for from the commission. this is because the conditionality mechanism is now at stake. this is a test of this mechanism. and, honourable vice—president, this is not against the hungarian people. this is to defend basic values of the european union. so, this is what we are doing here.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner reynders, we may have different points of view, we may have different views or nuances, we may even have different strategies, but there is nothing to justify a different conclusion. i have listened very carefully to the commission's assessment and i understand that we have come to the same conclusion: the hungarian government does not respect the rule of law and this is seriously affecting the financial interests of the union, which is the subject of the regulation we voted on in this house. so there's not much room for maneuver, there's not much room for nuance. we can only make one right decision: to approve the freezing of funds. and why do i say this? we can start right at the end. of the 17 measures agreed with the hungarian government, only three have been put into effect, and half of them cannot be evaluated, because they will be put into effect in a short time and we therefore do not have enough information at the moment. it is not being implemented and the budget is therefore still in danger. this is what the european commission has to assess. but if we look at the 17 measures, we can also conclude that they are clearly insufficient and many of them are inadequate. if we add to this the fact that we are only talking about public procurement, that is to say, a small area where there are problems, we obviously get a picture of the situation that is not very positive. in conclusion, three measures completed cannot justify the release of the funds. because what message would we be sending if we gave in to orban's blackmail: that we do not care what is happening in a member state? that 12 years of waste can be fixed in two months? or that we are on black friday and, in addition to giving him the 7.5 billion euro from the cohesion funds, we are also going to approve the recovery plan? this would be neither understandable nor acceptable nor justifiable. we must be consistent with what we have been defending for so long.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear absent council, the commission is assessing hungary’s compliance with the 17 very weak conditions for the release of funds. a child can see that they have not remotely been met. so the conclusion can be fairly simple: no compliance, no money. now, this is the view of the vast majority of this house. but orbán wields massive power because the european council – absent – has failed disgracefully for many years to suspend his voting rights under article 7. and viktor has been using his veto power as a tool to blackmail and extort the european union at every turn in the road. after 12 years of orbán, government leaders still naively or opportunistically believe they can buy him off. they should know better. he will not back down but, on the contrary, step up his game, encouraged by his success. the rule of law conditionality mechanism was explicitly designed to overcome this stalemate. but again, we see horse trading with our values instead of the commission and the council standing up to defend our common european values. it’s time for the commission and the european council to show some backbone. giving in to blackmail by a kleptocrat will be a historic failure. commissioner, don’t miss your appointment with history; the european council has already missed it.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of respect for the rule of law, the european union now has the exorbitant power to exercise ideological tutelage over its member states. when the conditionality regulation, which gives him this power, was passed in december 2020, i had protested against this authoritarian drift. the facts today prove me right. the union threatens hungary with the deprivation of the seven and a half billion euros of subsidies to which it is entitled, as well as nearly six billion euros of aid under the post-covid recovery plan. the reason for this relentlessness is the alleged lack of independence of the hungarian judiciary. hungary has just announced a reform of its judiciary to reassure the union. the european blackmail is still going on. in these circumstances, i think it is normal that hungary threatens to block certain european decisions as a retaliatory measure. like every state, hungary has the right to defend its vital interests. i therefore unambiguously support viktor orbán in his iron fist against the union.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. hungary is the target of your attacks as usual. but you have to ask yourself why. does democracy in hungary look worse than in germany, where elections had to be repeated because of so many fraudulent acts? did something like this happen in hungary? is it worse than slovenia or slovakia or malta, where journalists were murdered? and after all these years, there's still no convincing explanation for this? are the universities and the media more subservient than the left-wing ones in your country, where if you think differently, you're immediately "cancelled"? and let's be honest with ourselves, the real problem with hungary, ladies and gentlemen, is that they defend religion, the traditional values on which western civilization is built. they are protecting children from demoralization and peoples from a european state in which democracy will look exactly as we see it in this house. that means the hungarians won't be able to choose their own government, they won't have a say. only the european administration here will be able to say in advance who can govern in which countries, without any elections and without the will of the people. this is your democracy, this is the new democracy, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why it must be opposed. in the name of democracy and the rule of law.
madam president! mr. ambassador jak, how did it happen that you reduced poland, a country of 38 million, to the role of a servant of four times smaller hungary? how did this happen? you presented an alliance with orban and a license to violate the law over the interests of your own citizens? aren't you just ashamed of yourselves? because it's a shame and a disgrace to stand shoulder to shoulder with orban. after all, after he's been spreading russian propaganda, after he's blocked sanctions on putin, after he's been hampering arms transfers, and now he's blocking 18 billion euros of eu aid to ukraine. our friends from beyond the oder, with whom you are not on the way, have offered us euro fighter planes and patriot launchers. and what did hungary give poland? name one benefit to poland, to the people, that your alliance with orban has brought. i know, i know, you can't point because she's just not there. you have to wake up. first of all, throw hungary out, not one euro for orban. second, bring back the persecuted judges. mr. sending jakes, you can talk to the boss. thirdly, and this is the commission's point, eu funds should be directed to citizens and local authorities.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! diabetes is one of the most serious and common chronic diseases of civilization. in the european union, as the commissioner mentioned, more than 33 million people suffer from it and it is estimated that this number will rise to 38 million in less than eight years. moreover, it is estimated that at some point in their lives, up to 80 percent of patients will also have other, more common complications of diabetes. and while recent years have brought many benefits to patients in terms of access to advanced medicines and technologies for the treatment and prevention of diabetes, there is still much to be done in terms of a holistic approach to this multifaceted health challenge. therefore, if we are to make a real difference for the diabetic patient, we must take steps to achieve greater synergy through existing programmes that translate into better coordination of diagnostic and medical care. make the most of this knowledge that member states already have, by sharing experience, sharing epidemiological data on incidence and access to healthcare, including analysis, treatment pathways and prognosis. by combining existing programs with highly skilled medical care, the treatment can be characterized by a coherent approach that is based on the fundamental principle that the patient's welfare is paramount.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. as one of the biggest sporting events in the world, the world cup in qatar, begins, football is not the number one topic. while this should be a cause for great celebration of sport, we all know that the organization of these championships involves high costs and has caused a lot of criticism, especially in terms of human rights or labor rights. thousands of workers who built stadiums lost their lives to make the world cup happen. this is a matter of great sadness and opposition. however, it should be said that some positive progress has been made in the area of labour liberalisation and reform in qatar. as the commissioner has said, the cafalli system has been de facto abolished, as the latest report of the international labour organisation shows. we appreciate the progress, but we need assurances that these efforts will continue in qatar, even after the world cup. human rights are universal and must be respected everywhere. so in 2017, fifa introduced new human rights requirements during the bidding process for the world cup, the next world cup. these requirements have been developed in accordance with united nations guidelines and have been implemented for the first time for the organisation of the 2026 world cup, which will be held in the usa, canada and mexico. as a former professional footballer and chairman of the european parliament's sport group, i hope that the world of sport and politics will learn from this championship and that future sporting events will be held with full respect for human rights.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the new own resources must take into account the provisions of protocol 28 to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. they cannot place an undue burden on less prosperous countries. as is the case with the first basket of own resources proposed by the european commission. in particular, in connection with the proposal to transfer part of the ets revenue to the budget of the european union. we can't support that, we just can't. the timing and amount of the loans to be raised by the european commission are strictly defined in the own resources decision adopted unanimously. all the countries were borrowing. not all countries received aid. this is a scandal. it's not fair. we can't accept that and we're gonna keep asking for the money that we're owed. this decision on own resources, on the financing of own resources, obviously requires cooperation, but we also know - and we see in the report or in the proposed resolution - that three taxes are not enough to repay these resources or these loans. then we'll need more. and there's going to be more problems with that.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! what we are witnessing in ukraine today is the barbarity of putin's thugs who, unable to defeat ukrainian soldiers on the battlefield, have gone on to attack civilian targets, and above all critical infrastructure, resulting in the virtual lockdown of most of ukraine's major cities. all this should make us realize that today, in the face of this russian satrap, no country in europe is safe. last week, as a result of the barbaric missile attacks that the commissioner mentioned, i would like to thank you very much for those words, because they were true words, which show in a real light what the ukrainians are experiencing today. also in poland, a member state of the european union, two of my countrymen were killed because a missile fell on polish territory. i think it's a good time for all of you, especially those on the left here, who are attacking poland, attacking poland as a front country, a loyal country to the european union, to remember. we remember all those foolish attacks when we were protecting poland from a hybrid attack by lukashenka and putin, when they tried to transport to poland as refugees the unfortunate so-called tourists brought by lukashenka. how many of these tourists could have been potential terrorists, agents of putin, agents of lukashenka, who, as we have seen, as the commissioner has said, did not hesitate to blow up the nord stream pipeline? you have to remember that. it's worth listening to poland.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. in the heart of the european union in the 21st century, president kaczyński, the ruler of the literary minds, calls polish women drinkers and says that instead of having children, they beat their necks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. polish women are ambitious, they're caring, and they're just wonderful. and equality and respect should be off the table. they should be obvious. the fear of strong, independent women is politically motivated. women are great managers, they're great in companies, they're great in all kinds of leadership positions. and that's what the misogynists fear, who don't want to accept gender equality, who are afraid that they simply don't fit in with women. jarosław kaczyński will lose this battle, he will lose it with women, he will lose it with men who defend women's rights. i'll be back in a little while.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. of course, we as the cor will support this budget because there are funds for payments, because the measures envisaged can be implemented and because there is also a 'good' response to our proposal to help ukraine. of course, the ecr also made its amendments, in particular on military mobility, on humanitarian aid. these amendments have been passed, so we see a plus in this whole budget. and of course, we're worried, like everyone else, about what's going to happen next. nevertheless, today we would like to make it clear that there was a willingness to cooperate during the consultation, that this money for ukraine is very important for refugees. those who are, but those who are outside of ukraine, who fled from this war. there are additional funds for military mobility, for energy. very interesting money for ukrainian students, so all of this deserves recognition. and of course we also want to emphasize that it will be possible to implement the cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy in 2023. it's very important to us, too.
on behalf of the ecr group. - i'm not going to tell you. we say no, but not because of some strange principle, but because according to our calculations, according to the calculations of the experts, all these taxes are hurting the poor countries more than the rich countries. and that's our basic explanation to our constituents. the proposed basket is unsustainable, it will place an undue burden on less prosperous member states with high-carbon economies. and that is the naked truth. it is also premature at this stage to make decisions on own resources based on cbam and residual profits. all revenue of the union budget should constitute a single pool of appropriations in accordance with the principle of universality of the budget of the european union and should not prejudge its allocation in sectoral acts. the decision to introduce new own resources should not be taken hastily, in good time, without full knowledge of the shape of the new mechanisms and an appropriate analysis of the effects. so we have a huge problem. this debate is going on in every political group. i am convinced that all political groups, not just the eec, have a problem with this, but we are making it clear that we will not support such situations in order to deprive poland of the benefits of the ets, for example. it's not fair, because we're not going to have the money to make the energy transition. so in this case, the ecr will vote against.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i'd like to ask you about the solidarity lens. thank you for informing us of the funding for this initiative. i'd like to ask about the infrastructure expansion. the ukrainian side proposes to build a pipeline to transport oil. there are other needs tankers, coolers for the tracks etc. is there a development idea? secondly, is there any idea to include this issue in the three seas regional initiative, which has already included ukraine and could expand the transport network? finally, does the commission monitor the flow of food from russia? is russia still using food as a political tool?
i'm not going to let you do this. i certainly don't expect you to do our work for us. because the country i represent, poland, is doing the most in ukraine's neighborhood. and among other things, it provides military assets to protect this shipment. and it also opened up the borders. not just for seven million people, but for millions of tons of grain and other goods. i just want to remind you about the three seas initiative. will the union support the initiatives already being implemented, including by poland?
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, high representative, colleagues, china accounts for a quarter of humanity. it’s an ancient culture. it’s our largest trading partner. we want to have a constructive relationship with it. i proposed the paper, which was supported by this house some time ago, whose gist was that we should, with china, collaborate where possible, compete where needed and confront when necessary. i believe that’s still the right policy. on behalf of the epp, mr high representative, i support the thrust of what you’ve just proposed. personally, i think the chinese leadership has made three big mistakes recently: dropping the ten-year rule, nationalising parts of the economy, and the aggressive wolf warrior diplomacy have not enhanced china’s popularity or influence in the world. the ten—year rule and the economy are internal chinese matters, but on china’s external relations, something could be done about it. if china stopped threatening taiwan, if china helped to resolve the war in ukraine – and she can, because she has influence over vladimir putin – that would greatly help our relationship. we need to put the europe—china relationship back on a pragmatic footing.
mr president, how many times have we come together in this house to talk about rescues at sea and to deplore the tragedies that follow? all too often, for little tangible change. in recent weeks, we have witnessed yet another diplomatic crisis and the commission is proposing a new action plan in response. it is a laudable attempt, but it is striking to read, because it is the pile of measures already in existence to be reactivated. does this mean that they were no longer implemented and why then? or if they were still active, how would this plan change the current status quo where member states are using their political differences to block the asylum and migration pact? the plan also focuses on the central mediterranean, and this is necessary. but with over 42,000 arrivals in the uk since january, how many people suffered the fate of the shipwrecked and dead in the channel in november 2021, to whom french and british aid did not provide the necessary assistance? it's an emergency. yes, it is the need to re-establish a genuine, reliable and coordinated search and rescue mechanism under european auspices in all union waters.
mr president, mr minister representing the czech presidency, mr commissioner, dear margaritis schinas, madam commissioner, dear ylva johansson, by refusing to allow the ocean viking to disembark a few weeks after her appointment, giorgia meloni is a reminder of what the extreme right in power is all about: disregard for human life, disorder rather than respect for the rules. in the face of responsibility, populists prefer compromise to real solutions. on the contrary, the answer to the migration challenge lies in european cooperation. in the european parliament, we are working hard to build a european asylum and migration policy balanced between our humanist values of helping the most deprived and effective control of our external borders; to build an effective and fair solidarity mechanism between all member states, in particular to help first-arriving countries such as italy; to reform and simplify our asylum procedures and speed up the procedures for applications from those who are clearly ineligible; finally, to offer refugees protection and successful integration on our soil. in these negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, the far right is absent. that's the bottom line for the populists. they feed on tensions, they fuel them, but they don't look for solutions. as europeans, we are committed, together with my renew europe group, to an ambitious reform, to concrete solutions that are true to our values.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. fellow workers! the debate about migration is always very emotional, especially in this room, because on the one hand, we have people fleeing hunger and poverty, to no one's fault, but on the other hand, we also have to consider the safety of our citizens. this is particularly important in the context of very aggressive policies by russia and turkey, as well as a significant increase in the activity of terrorist organisations, especially those involved in human trafficking. we need to know that they're watching us and they're gonna take advantage of our naivety. however, fully opening the borders and making it easier for migrants to enter the european union is a dead end and a naive approach that threatens the security of our community. but we also have very good activities. that's the alternative. it is the macroeconomic stabilisation of the countries that are the source of immigration and the humanitarian and development aid that we as the european union provide on the ground in africa, in the middle east, in many, many countries. this is very real aid, an alternative to the naive open borders policy. and last sentence: we cannot forget the instrumental, cynical exploitation of migrants by the regimes in moscow and belarus. and this is what's happening right now on the border between poland and the european union.
mr. president, i have to go. let me make my message loud and clear. as we have said today, more than 25 000 people have died in the mediterranean since 2014, of which 2 000 this year alone. so saving lives is not a crime. it's the question that begins and ends our humanity. europe can no longer turn a blind eye to this challenge. the reception of unfortunate refugees in a safe harbour cannot be dependent on the occasional mercy of this or that country. it is true that europe cannot take in all the refugees in the world, but it must take its share of responsibility. we must break the gordian knot of a broken immigration system. this is why we need effective migration and asylum policies. it must be based on solidarity and fair burden-sharing. it must also be just and dignified. we need a migration deal now. thank you so much.
it is hypocritical, mr president, that those countries which have colonized various african countries are now treating the citizens of those countries as totally unremembered, totally unwanted people. it is hypocritical, mr president, that the countries which benefit from solidarity funds, european funds, have no solidarity with the mediterranean countries which are facing a major crisis in rescuing a number of immigrants arriving in our europe. it is also hypocritical, mr president, that you have a number of countries, that they do not want to accept that they are rescuing people coming from africa, that at the same time they are selling arms to african dictators. this is the reality of the european union today. and mr president, we have here a european parliament that has a strong position on solidarity, a strong position on what should be done with the irregular migrants who enter our europe. but where is the council? when will the council wake up?
mr president, mr vice-president, madam commissioner, today's debate is a good opportunity to see where we stand on immigration. in 2022 there was a further increase in illegal entries into the union after the pandemic. among other things, we are called upon to manage turkey's hybrid threats by using desperate souls as a means of pressure on the european union. as a greek, i focus on the challenges my country still faces, despite the remarkable progress the greek government has made on the problem over the past three years. turkey continues to provoke in the aegean with contempt for any notion of law, not only failing to control the trafficking networks as it should have since 2016, but instead providing them with direct or indirect support, while still refusing unjustified returns from the greek islands to its territory. ladies and gentlemen, greece has managed to effectively guard europe's external borders, to counter the threats of president erdoğan and to save human lives almost daily from being driven to their deaths by criminals. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the same time, and i hope that the council will accept it. in times of crisis, in particular, i believe that a mechanism for the mandatory relocation of asylum seekers throughout the european union and the fair sharing of responsibility for rescuing people at sea, as demanded today in an urgent letter by the greek minister for migration policy, mr metarakis, are one-way streets.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. last week, russian criminals carried out the biggest missile attack on ukraine since the beginning of the aggression, an attack on critical infrastructure. the kremlin terrorist's goal is clear: to break the spirit of the brave men defending their land, to break the spirit of their families. soon, many ukrainian women will have to choose between wandering around with their children again or staying in cold homes. as a union, we must be prepared for any scenario. we must learn from the past. we must be ready to provide support on the ground and be ready to take refugees back. over six months ago, the people of poland showed what european values are, what solidarity is in practice. they took in refugees. they fed them. they've been cut off. the role of local government, ngos and citizens has been enormous. so you can see for yourself how important it is to have a broad support mechanism, direct support, so that the aid reaches the people closest to us, so that we are always prepared.
in writing. as citizens of the european union, we are obliged to respect the principles of humanitarianism and human rights for people seeking safety in europe victims of armed conflict, persecution, violence, poverty and climate change. in the european parliament, we are working to create a fairer european asylum policy, based on solidarity and shared responsibility. member states, as signatories to the geneva convention, the european convention on human rights, the european charter of fundamental rights, the convention on the law of the sea and other human rights instruments, are obliged to assist persons in danger, to save lives, to carry out search and rescue operations and to respect the principle of non-push-backs for applicants for international protection and to examine each application individually. unfortunately, the mediterranean, and particularly the libyan route to europe, remains the migration route with the highest number of fatalities in the world, and the massive push-backs are the drama of thousands of refugees at the eu's land and sea borders. member states bear no consequences for human rights violations, even though they are required by law to fulfil obligations to protect the lives of persons within their jurisdiction. at the same time, in the case of ukrainian refugees, we see that the european union is able to act in solidarity, to coordinate aid, to share responsibility, and this is precisely the direction in which the common european migration policy should be moving.
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! every decision we take in this house, every decision we take in the european commission, must be informed by the awareness of who we are working for and on whose behalf we are working. we represent the interests of the citizens of europe, we represent the interests of those who have entrusted us with the mandate to look after their affairs in the european parliament and the european commission, to safeguard the interests of the europeans. therefore, any decision that is taken at this moment in the context of energy security must take account first of all of the interests of the citizens of the member states. we have to think about infrastructure, we have to think about energy supply, we have to think about the future. but today we have to think about what's most important, about gas prices, about energy prices. this is the highest priority and that is why, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these decisions must take account of the circumstances of the individual member states.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. europe is at war, energy and economic crisis, and people are living in energy poverty. we therefore owe it to the europeans to be honest and to inform them that the actions being taken by the european commission are unfortunately sham, because we will not reduce energy prices unless we stop the ets. and all we're doing is expanding the ets, reaching deep into the pockets of the europeans. at the same time, the european commission does not dare to say that it has frozen until march the directive on energy taxation, whereby the prices of coal-based energy are to increase from 100% to 300%, and the prices of heat and gas-based energy from 300% to 500%. at the same time, the possibility of reducing vat in individual member states is blocked. poland must abandon this because it is the european commission's own resources. i'm warning you about the platforms. we've done some shopping together, including vaccines. to date, the european commission has not explained the contracts it has signed with pharmaceutical companies.
madam president, the situation on the energy market shows us that we are all suffering the consequences of russia's criminal aggression in the european union, especially through higher energy and commodity prices. the more we have to stick together, the more important common european solutions are, the more important a functioning european energy market is. it is also important for better energy security and better energy prices. now more than ever, we need to reduce demand to bring prices down. we realize that all the savings, all the savings are important, and with every savings we contribute to lowering the price. on the other hand, we need to increase demand. energy prices need to be liberalised, including by liberalising the rules for those who generate energy, small energy producers, especially from renewable sources. this is true for small businesses, especially for households installing pv panels. today, more than ever, we need to remove barriers to the single market, invest in energy infrastructure and have new market rules for the separation of gas and electricity prices. shopping together, of course, can help. the situation is changing fast. dependence on russian fossil fuels is declining, which is good news, and we need to use today's times to really make a difference for citizens, for business competitiveness, and for better environmental protection.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! we are all concerned about the electricity bills and the declining competitiveness of eu companies. we are living on the eve of a great social upheaval. but who is to blame for this situation? i'm skipping the war right now. most of us are in favor of aggressive climate policies, which is the main cause of the chaos in the energy market in europe today. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. i will say this bluntly: europe needs cheap and stable energy. renewable energy alone is absolutely not going to do it here. they'll never give us stability. if anyone thinks otherwise, he is making a fatal and grave mistake. don't fight what logic and common sense tell you. there's no rational reason today to give up gas, atom and coal. if we really want to reduce our energy bills and make the eu economy more competitive, let's do the obvious. let's say fossil fuels and nuclear have to be part of the energy and climate plans for the next 30 or even 50 years. let's not pretend we're the climate saviors of the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the energy crisis we have had two strategies to compare: the commission has already proposed a ceiling on the price of gas, and i think that this solution has not been accepted by the commission, but on the other hand there are those who are adopting a different strategy, which i believe is equally complex and probably even more dangerous for the market, namely to focus on reducing energy demand and to subsidize, with the resources available within the country, to compensate for this reduction in energy demand. this second model is producing industrial relocations. unfortunately, the reduction in demand for gas and energy at the moment is not caused by efficiency, but by the fact that it is decided to move production elsewhere. and on this point, i think the commission will have to be very vigilant and not support this model. on the other hand, there is the issue of infrastructure. integration must be guaranteed, the traditional flows were from east to west and from north to south, in future they will be from south to north and from west to east, and this is a new element which in the infrastructure integration must become a reference point for the european commission.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the response to the current energy crisis must be comprehensive and show how united europe is in the face of a russian attack through the use of energy resources. in this war, we have three equally important battles that we as europe must win. the first thing we must do is to ensure that the european union meets its energy needs for this winter and the next, which will be even more difficult. we must not forget our european allies, such as ukraine and moldova, who are now in an even more difficult situation than we are. the second battle is with speculators in the common market. joint purchases are important not only to provide us with energy, but also to ensure that the price is not overstated by our own countries and our own companies fighting each other for access to fuel. this kind of internal competition is destructive. everyone in the european union must have access to cheap energy, no matter what country or city they live in. another key instrument that needs to be implemented is socially acceptable energy and energy raw material prices. last but not least, further integration of our capabilities through interconnectors, which must simultaneously prepare us for possible future crises and for the use of environmentally friendly energy sources, such as hydrogen.
madam president, rape against women is a heinous violation of human rights. the european parliament and the council will be meeting on 25 november to discuss the situation in the middle east. the government of spain passed a law, the law of the solo si es si, which came into force on october 7. the consequences are as follows: madrid, man convicted of forcing a woman with a 65 per cent disability to perform oral sex, released; man convicted of sexual abuse of his four-year-old niece, released; teacher convicted of sexual abuse of four pupils, released. balearic islands, two men convicted of sexual assault, out on bail. the victim is humiliated, she's sunk, she's explained that she's relived with that freedom the whole process. galicia, man convicted of sexual assault with access to carnal, free; man convicted of penetrating his thirteen-year-old stepdaughter, reduced sentence; man convicted of raping a friend in his home, reduced sentence. the barcelona court of appeal has just handed down a sentence in relation to a rape case in which it recognises that it must reduce the sentence to comply with the new law. that rule protects the most vulnerable: women, girls and boys, childhood. irreparable damage is being done. they were warned, warned by the judges of spain, warned by innumerable opinions. they didn't listen. the answer has been to attack the judges: it's not the way. the european association of judges has also criticised this issue. two years ago we had the herd debate here. that one you could have and it was a spanish debate. this one didn't want to be had. spanish women are in a very difficult situation today. you said we're not alone. let's prove it to him. i would ask the commission, the council and the women and men of this parliament to call on the spanish government to change this law.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. a few days ago, polish mp katarzyna kotula gave a testimony. she told her story, the story of the predator who was going to hurt her. the politician gave courage to other victims. we, as men in politics, must also have the courage - the courage to stand up against those who abuse women, against those who scalpel them. but we also need to have the courage to make laws, anti-violence laws and victim-support laws. that's our job. one of the instruments that protects women is the istanbul convention. i prepared a report on this subject with mep arba kokalari. i fought to have a call in the bill to provide financial support to any organization that deals with gender-based violence. because we know what the writers' priorities are. we know they're spending our tax dollars on surveillance of the opposition, on bugging krzysztof brejza instead of supporting domestic violence victims. that's enough! you have to be brave, europa!
madam president! victims of violence, women, they have names. today, we heard some of those names again from this podium. i'll tell you about another one, about izabela from pszczyna, a 30-year-old polish woman who lost her life only because a group of barbaric politicians in poland made it so that izabela couldn't have a safe, legal abortion. women like isabel from poland or teresa from spain, who we heard about today, there are hundreds of thousands, if not millions, in europe. we hear about them every day in the media. and what have we, as the european union, done? not much, not much. we still don't have a standard when it comes to women's rights. polish women have fewer rights today than when poland joined the european union. we standardize everything we can. we standardize the bananas, the carrots. i did! we'll have one standard for the charger. and when it comes to protecting women from violence, we still don't have a single standard. that's the reality of it. and that is a shame. that is why, mr minister, commissioner, one fundamental declaration must be made today: you will never, ever walk alone. the european union will always be on your side. and that's the statement women need to hear from this place today.
madam president, i would like to thank you. men's violence against women is the ultimate consequence of an unequal society. it happens to girls, women and children every day, all over the world. women are killed because they're women. cause of death: female. too many children grow up with violence as their daily routine. i've met many of these children as active in a women's choir. violence is preventable, but it requires political will. it is good that the european commission is now presenting a proposal for a directive to combat male violence against women. now we must ensure that the directive is put in place and enforced. we also have the istanbul convention which all countries should ratify. we social democrats will not give up until men's violence against women has ceased. together we must fight for women and men to have equal power to shape society and their own lives.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. violence against women is a violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms. the world health organization warns that 30 percent of women worldwide experience physical and sexual violence. these are not isolated cases. this is a pandemic of violence. one, two, three, one, two, three... that's one in three of us, just because she's a woman. that's not me saying that. that's the who saying that. let us remember the groups of women who are particularly vulnerable and vulnerable: women with disabilities, who are more vulnerable than able-bodied women, women refugees from ukraine, women on the polish-belarusian border and women from other countries, young women, girls. we can't deal with violence against women systemically or mentally. the consequences of violence go beyond pain and suffering. they often have an economic dimension. they lead to loss of income. it's good that we're speaking out about violence against women. it's good that we're responding to it more and more clearly. let's share our experiences to end the silence and impunity of violence. let's not delay, before it's too late to react. let's create a legal framework that protects us, women, girls.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the incidence of violence against women is not decreasing. in my town in the last few days a woman was stabbed to death by her husband and another was seriously injured because her husband always set her on fire. this is the news of the day in all the countries of the european union, because hatred and violence know no borders, no age differences, no social background, only victims. now, for the first time in the history of the italian republic, we have a female president of the council. what happened? that within days of being appointed, she had to fly to the g20 and was attacked a lot. why was she attacked? for his political views? because of what he said? no, simply because he had brought his six-year-old daughter with him. a trivial gesture, but one that is still revolutionary in my country. what i regret is that i expected the other colleagues from the other parties to show solidarity, to send messages of solidarity, but that did not happen. now, mr president, i just want to say that we must be united. if we don't start being together, nothing will change.
madam president! i want to address the chairman of the committee. since you took office, the polish police have registered 185,318 reports of women who have been victims of domestic violence. but women very often don't report violence because they don't trust the institutions of the state. according to estimates by ngos, during your tenure, domestic violence affected over two million polish women. what did you do as chair of the commission to prevent this? i'll tell you right now, the violence directive is not enough. we need a comprehensive system to combat violence against women, based on the istanbul convention. moreover, on 16 july 2019 you yourself said that the ratification of the istanbul convention is a priority for the commission. how many more women have to be beaten, raped, murdered? how much physical and financial abuse does she have to experience every day for you to take a more decisive action?
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. in two days we will be celebrating the international day for the elimination of violence against women and girls. the fact that in the third decade of the 21st century we still have to celebrate such days is obviously a failure for all of us. because unfortunately, it means that the world has not yet solved this problem, we have not found common mechanisms to end the barbarism of past centuries. as politicians, we often see cases of injustice, cases of the complete inaction of the state services in the face of domestic violence, violence against women. and yet, protecting the public is their primary calling, it would seem. it is true that there are mechanisms for support and response, but there is a lack of sensitivity, understanding and trust for the victims. we need to work together to end impunity for domestic violence, violence against women. the libe and femm committees are preparing a report on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention, for which i am the shadow rapporteur on behalf of the ppe. we have a very good draft of this report and we will do everything we can to make the eu part of the convention. i regret that in poland the government is considering withdrawing from this international agreement. this is further proof of the government's disregard for the expectations of the polish people.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the statement by the council and the commission on eu financial assistance to ukraine: recommendations amending council regulation (eu, euratom) 2020/2093 of 17 december 2020 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the years 2021 to 2027 (com ((2022) 0595 - 14471/2022 - c9-0386/2022 - 2022/0369 ((app)) and the report amending regulation (eu, euratom) 2018/1046 as regards the establishment of a diversified financing strategy as a general method for borrowing (com ((20205962) - c9-0374/2022 - 2022/0370 ((cod)) and the report on the support instrument for ukraine for 2023 (macro-financial assistance) + (com ((202052) - c97-0937 (cod))).
in writing. ukraine, a country directly adjacent to the european union, a candidate country for accession to that community, has been criminally invaded by russia. he was also the main organiser of the 'bolshevik coup d'état' of october 2014. for many months now, ukraine has suffered in ways you cannot imagine. it is our moral duty to support this country in every way we can. poland will consistently and fully support the eu's assistance to ukraine through the eu's external policy instruments, including macro-financial assistance. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the medium term. we support the proposal for a broader structured financial support instrument for ukraine for the whole of 2023. as the war continues, we believe that predictable and sustained eu support is essential. we note with concern that the european council's commitment to pay out eur 9 billion in 2022 has not been met. we believe that the solution to this situation will be the payment of the increased amount in january 2023. these are just a few suggestions for helping the ukrainian people and the ukrainian state. history proves that it's worth listening to poland. people are dying very close to us, civilians, waiting for real and thoughtful support. let's give them a real sense that they can count on us.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. protecting biodiversity is essential to ensure the ability of humans to live on earth, to ensure food security. a number of european union actions in this area are worrying because of the lack of clear definitions. the eu documents lack information on the sources of funding for these ambitious plans, as well as analyses of the socio-economic impact of the proposed changes. the greatest challenges to biodiversity conservation are faced by the agricultural sector and rural areas. they have many cross-sectoral links. i therefore call on all the parties to the montreal conference in december to ensure that the solutions adopted take account of the economic stability of our farms, do not lead to a reduction in the competitiveness of european agriculture abroad, but rather increase the ambitions and standards, especially in third countries, which currently have an unfair competitive advantage over our farmers.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the lukashenka regime is using terror against its own people. last time he was in prison, 25 years, 20 years. tragic conditions. it's just a sign of his weakness. aleś bialacki, nobel prize winner, also representatives of the polish minority: andrzej poczobut, andzelika borys, but also completely innocent people like the capable computer scientist sergey korszun, who never broke the law they will not be intimidated. you can't intimidate the brave belarusian people. and belarus will be democratic and free. and we call for the immediate release of all political prisoners. but i also call for the establishment of an office here in parliament, in our headquarters, for the belarusian democratic opposition, for the representatives of this brave society, so that we can immediately have information, real facts and be able to disseminate them. i have only one message for alexander lukashenko: tyrants end up in ruins.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the news from the eastern part of the democratic republic of the congo is extremely distressing. renewed fighting has worsened an already dire humanitarian situation and thousands of people have been forced to flee their homes. how is the eu responding? firstly, by almost doubling its humanitarian assistance, which now amounts to nearly eur 80 million for the country, with a very strong focus on the eastern provinces, and in particular on the large—scale food distribution and provision of primary healthcare services. second, we have responded by dedicating part of our development cooperation to the eastern part of the country in the areas of health, sustainable development and gender equality, among others. third, we are responding by supporting regional initiatives, addressing the security crisis in the congo and the great lakes region, namely the mediation by the president lourenço of angola and the nairobi process chaired by former president kenyatta of kenya. the eu is examining how to further strengthen its support to these processes. however, this will not be enough, i’m afraid. unless the root causes of this recurring insecurity in the eastern congo are seriously addressed, the endless cycle of violence will never stop. now who is to address these root causes? first and foremost, it’s the congolese authorities with, of course, the support of regional and international partners, including ourselves. these root causes include major governance challenges, the struggle for control over land and natural resources, corruption and impunity for human rights violations. the european union will continue to stand by the people of the democratic republic of the congo and the region to tackle these challenges and finally unleash the prosperity potential of this region. the foreign affairs council of 14 november started a reflection on the right policy approach that we will be implementing together with the countries in the region and our international partners.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. the situation in the democratic republic of congo is deteriorating year by year. religious tensions are rising, resulting in violent attacks on christians, especially in the provinces of ituria and north kivu. the brutal and bloody attacks serve one purpose: to destroy and exclude the christian community. they bear the marks of religious purgatory. the european union must take action. resolutions are not enough. only tough action can stop the chaos and the bloodshed. member states should therefore undertake a stabilisation mission in regions particularly affected by attacks by islamist militias from the isis-linked adf nalu. this group has long been pursuing an islamic strategy of expansion in africa. in the 2022 world persecution index, the democratic republic of congo ranks as the 40th most persecuted country for christians. we must also step up our humanitarian aid to the congolese people who are most in need as soon as possible.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the fourth industrial revolution, artificial intelligence, the covid-19 pandemic have shown that transforming our economy and society towards a more digital one is our urgent objective. we need to speed up the process of digital education and infrastructure development in all eu countries. this is why the joint programme 'road to the digital decade' is so important. i am very pleased that young people are listening to this important debate today, because for them it is the future of europe. because you are the most connected people in this digital economy. the european union must be ambitious, modern and digital, because it will guarantee europe a gain of almost 3 trillion euros. for example, for my country, poland, it's close to 500 billion zlotys. unfortunately, today most europeans have only basic digital skills, and huge differences persist between countries. the percentage of europeans with basic computer skills varies between 29% and 79%. today, this compromise worked out by our parliament and the european council requires an ambitious approach and cooperation. we have set out specific objectives for digital policy, digital skills, infrastructure and digitalisation of enterprises, and most importantly, a transparent framework for the implementation of multinational projects. however, we should address some sensitive issues in this ambitious project: timelines for the synchronisation of the publication of national digital road maps and the achievement of the 70% target for eu businesses using digitalisation in their business operations and the 100% digital transformation in public services and citizens' access, e.g. to medical records. but let us remember that in this rush towards a global digital civilization, it is important that we do not forget about the other person, about our security, and that we pay attention to the threats posed by technological progress and the digital world.
madam president! it is difficult not to support the goal of advancing digitalisation to increase innovation, economic efficiency or administrative efficiency. the civilizational shift the world is currently experiencing following the ongoing fourth industrial revolution, however, brings new challenges and controversies related to the use of digital technologies and artificial intelligence. while creating enormous opportunities for growth, it has also created a variety of threats, including the risks of digital abuse, privacy intrusion, surveillance, dehumanization and alienation of people. there are numerous cases where the wrong decisions of computer algorithms and artificial intelligence have resulted in the violation of the rights and freedoms of many citizens. the road to the digital decade programme does not adequately address public concerns about the potential negative effects of the introduction of digital technologies. we find here, however, a characteristic of today's eu documents, that these technologies are to be in line with the values of the union. but what are these 'union values'? are they values that have historically been part of the european spirit, such as christian ethics? or are they more a reflection of leftist ideological aspirations that instead of the benefits of new technology will bring us the totalitarianism of a new, wonderful world?
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in october 2021, the european commission presented a formal proposal to declare 2022 the european year of youth. we criticised the late adoption of this initiative. it was obvious that such haste would make it too challenging to achieve the objectives set. now it's all coming out. it was necessary to listen to rational arguments and to provide sufficient time to prepare real actions in such difficult times for young people. young people in particular have been affected by the economic, psychological and social consequences of unprecedented measures introduced under the guise of fighting covid-19, such as lockdowns and segregation of people instead of equality. school closures have done damage to education. young people have also lost the opportunity to train, volunteer or work. and today, they are still reeling from economic and political tensions caused, among other things, by russia's aggression against ukraine. the resolution which aims to establish the legacy of the european year of youth will not change this. a year in which, paradoxically, on average, nearly 14% of young people under 25 in the european union were unemployed. the resolution also contains provisions motivated by ideology rather than genuine concern for the welfare of young people, and calls for action that is inconsistent with the principle of subsidiarity. these include calling on member states to integrate citizenship education in the form of global and eu citizenship into national curricula, although the area of education is a matter for national competence.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the european year of youth 2022 is a demonstration of the european union's commitment to young people and future generations. but our work for young people cannot end on 31 december. we need to use this year's long-term legacy, because we need real participation of young people in politics. we owe them concrete results. i regret the way the year has started, and especially the hasty pace of the adoption of the regulation, which has subsequently delayed the implementation and financing of many projects. i hope that in future the commission will ensure that the european summers can be prepared in good time for all the parties concerned. during this year, we have learned a lot from the young people we met. we know what's important to them, what their political desires are. we are committed to listening to the voices of young people, as we want to work together to shape the future of the european union in accordance with their aspirations. the european year of youth, which is coming to an end, should lead to a change in the way we involve young people in policy-making and decision-making. whether it's climate change, social issues or digital development, young people are at the heart of our policies and political priorities. they are, above all, the future of our common europe.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i heard from you about this activity, the great activity you've had among the youth in recent years. i would like to ask you if this activity included a visit to the countries where unemployment is currently the highest: spain, italy? what have you done, what do you propose to change this very unfavourable situation in terms of youth unemployment? what do you propose to do in your activity?
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! i have long had a special interest in the welfare of people with disabilities, and i appreciate many of the points made in this report. enabling the independence of disabled people in public life and combating their exclusion is a matter of priority for all of us. we have to do everything we can to make them feel like they're part of our community. the need to implement a disability-based disaster risk management plan is particularly noteworthy. but i don't understand the inclusion of unrelated issues such as hate speech, sexual minority rights and references to other minority groups such as lgbt. why are these issues addressed in a document entitled 'pursuing equality for people with disabilities'? this is a blatantly manipulative practice that i absolutely cannot agree with.
in writing. i thank the rapporteur, mrs pelletier, for a very good and comprehensive report. there are still countries in the european union where the authorities are not in the way of disabled people. there are countries that are doing a lot of work on equality, but there are also countries that have been doing very little for years. we still have a lot to do. i would like to focus today on the access of people with disabilities to the exercise of active and passive voting rights. the forthcoming elections to the european parliament should be an example of how to organise and conduct democratic elections without excluding anyone. the european economic and social committee's report 'the effective right of persons with disabilities to vote in european parliament elections' shows that millions of eu citizens are prevented from voting by organisational arrangements (e.g. technical barriers) that do not take into account their disability needs, and that the scale of this phenomenon is very uneven across countries. that is why our debate today and our uncompromising recommendations to the member states are so important. we will only be able to speak of true equality in the eu if no one is deprived of the opportunity to enjoy his or her rights.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i am very pleased that we are finally discussing in parliament the issue of a systemic approach to a long-term vision for rural development. i am all the more pleased that it is in line with the strategy for sustainable rural development, agriculture and fisheries that we are implementing in my country, poland. i think we can all agree that agriculture is the key sector that provides us with food security. the pandemic and the war have presented european farmers with unprecedented challenges, including skyrocketing energy and fertiliser prices, runaway inflation and blocked export routes from the black sea. our farmers have shown remarkable strength and resourcefulness. however, further institutional action is needed to close the still persistent gaps in living standards between rural and urban areas, and to ensure a level playing field, especially in the areas of education and access to public services, so that rural areas can realise their full potential. and that's really what we should all be concerned about.
in writing. this report is an important voice in the debate on the future of eu agriculture, but above all it is about ensuring food security for nearly 500 million europeans. the reform of the common agricultural policy, the new conditionality of payments, the effects of the pandemic, the galloping prices of production costs (gas and fertilisers) and the effects of demographic change are the challenges we face today. we need to ensure that rural areas are adequately financed not only by the cap but also by other eu policies: cohesion policy, the instrument for reconstruction and resilience, investeu and other eu programmes. i am very pleased that we have included a provision in the report on the protection of farmers against predators such as wolves (paragraph 36). of course, this would not mean abandoning the protection of wolves. we are talking about the possibility of carrying out activities in selected areas of the eu, for example, pastoral areas, to ensure the viability of agriculture and the sustainable coexistence of people and animals. at the same time, i think it's a very good step towards closer cooperation between hunting and agriculture. as vice-president of the biodiversity, hunting and rural intergroup, i have always been committed to using local potential, with appropriate support. cooperation between farmers, foresters, fishermen, rural households will have an impact on the development of rural areas, but it is also an opportunity to diversify economic activities such as tourism, recreation, culture.
the rural areas face crucial challenges in the coming decades: population decline, ageing, fewer high-quality jobs, less digital connectivity, climate change and often less access to services of general interest compared to other areas. the gap between urban and rural politics is widening. however, it is of great importance that residents have equal access to healthcare, childcare, care for the elderly, but also to smooth mobility, digital connectivity or postal and banking services. agriculture - which plays a crucial role in rural areas through jobs and the production of quality food - also faces enormous challenges. unfortunately, there are fewer and fewer (young) farmers. new figures show that in 2020, only 11.9% of farmers were under 40 years old, with an average age of 57. at the same time, the number of agricultural holdings has decreased by as much as 5.3 million between 2005 and 2020. in view of the above, it is absolutely necessary that we ask the european commission here today for a long-term vision for rural areas that commits to a strong, cohesive, resilient and prosperous rural area. with a clear plan of action, sufficient budget and an eye to the challenges i have just mentioned, we will already be making a lot of progress.
the agenda includes the commission statement 'addressing persistent challenges in the aviation sector and their impact on passengers, workers, capacity and safety' (2022/2995 ((rsp))
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for putting this debate on the agenda. aviation has faced unprecedented challenges in the past couple of years. covid was a huge blow. not only did traffic drop to zero, but we saw how difficult it is to scale back after two years of travel restrictions. the financial consequences of the covid crisis will weigh on the sector for a long time. add to this the war in ukraine and the sanctions on russia, which continue to complicate air space use while also driving up energy prices. we have also witnessed the impact of increasing extreme weather events, challenging flight paths and conditions, as well as reminding us of the importance of decarbonising aviation. and there is a diversification of air traffic, with more unmanned aircraft systems due to enter our airspace in the next years. disruption is the new normal, so we need to work on building up the resilience and adaptation of aviation so that europeans can continue to benefit from its opportunities, both as passengers and as workers. with the fit for 55 package we have already made enormous steps to decarbonise aviation. so it’s good to also focus during tonight’s debate on different challenges of the sector, namely the ones for passengers, workers, capacity and safety. let me start with passengers. our regulation on air passengers’ rights provides already today the highest level of protection to air passengers at a global level. during the pandemic and over the summer, we made it clear that it was the duty of airlines to respect those rights. we worked with national consumer authorities to ensure the proper enforcement of eu consumer protection laws. the passengers must come first, otherwise there is no trust. and if there is no trust, there will be no market. although we have a relatively robust system in place, there are some issues that could be better addressed. in particular, a large part of european citizens are still unaware of their rights as air passengers. even when they are entitled to financial compensation, many of them give up in front of administrative difficulties during the complicated handling process. already in 2013, the commission tabled amendments to the air passenger rights regulation with a view to clarify and simplify the existing rules, provide passengers with more effective complaint handling procedures and strengthen enforcement. i would like to see this proposal being discussed again in council as we believe it is still fit for purpose. the commission also intends to make new proposals next year. my services are currently assessing the possibility of new protections in the event of insolvency of carriers or liquidity crises. we are also investigating the possibility of new rights for passengers travelling multimodal. aviation is an ecosystem. it cannot work unless all parts of the system are functioning properly. airlines, airports, air traffic controllers, ground handlers and other workers and service providers. all parts are reliant on each other and, naturally, all parts are reliant on the people that they employ. so ensuring high quality and sustainable employment in the aviation sector must be a priority. during the pandemic, we worked with commissioner schmidt to help workers keep stable working environments and income whilst also helping businesses stay afloat and able to retain staff. we have also launched a range of short and long—term initiatives aimed at promoting and supporting high social standards in the aviation sector, as well as bringing in more women to the sector. namely, we have set up expert group working groups to provide recommendations and best practices on key employment issues such as self-employment, the enforcement of applicable labour law oversight, the role of intermediaries and pay to fly schemes. the commission is also fully committed to ensuring that the legal framework in aviation is fit for purpose in this post-pandemic era. we have been conducting a thorough review of the regulatory framework to determine which improvements are needed, as announced in our smart and sustainable mobility strategy. clarifying concepts such as operational base or nature of employment could be helpful. we are looking into this. this is, however, a larger issue than the scope of the service regulation. finding the right solutions needs joint efforts on the member states side as well, because the enforcement of high social standards is primarily the role of the competent national authorities. and then, of course, it is first and foremost for the employers themselves to ensure that working conditions are sufficient to attract and retain staff. social dialogue should give the opportunity to agree on acceptable conditions. and of course we support this. in fact, we organised many stakeholder coordination meetings over the summer to support dialogue and joint solutions. in those meetings, a key issue we discussed was also capacity. flight numbers in 2022 are near pre—covid levels, around 85% of 2019 traffic levels in most parts of the european network, and above 2019 levels in some parts of the network last summer. and this in a much more constrained airspace due to the impact of the russian war on ukraine. capacity constraints and air traffic management delays do not bode well for next summer and we risk returning to a major capacity crisis in the european skies as already experienced before covid. so there is no time to spare. and the single european sky reform currently in negotiation between the parliament and the council is absolutely necessary to drive efficiency and address unnecessary emissions from congestion problems. i am counting on you to help find solutions to take this reform forward. finally, let me stress that in everything that we do, safety is always our number one consideration. the european aviation safety system is recognised globally as being one of the safest. but here, too, there are new challenges. an important effect of the covid crisis was that much of the regular income for aviation safety oversight, which stems from industry fees and charges, was lost, thus limiting resources. part of our work under the single european sky pillar is to help authorities prioritise those resources adequately by setting performance term targets, including on safety. and of course, we rely on iasa as our trusted partner in developing a robust regulatory safety framework and ensuring its oversight and implementation. this is all the more important given new challenges such as the integration of drones into our traditional aviation system or safety and security threats, including cybersecurity, that are heightened in the current geopolitical context. we are constantly monitoring the situation and responding to these issues in full cooperation with you and national oversight authorities and with industry. so thank you very much for listening to me. and it’s my turn to listen to you all, which i will do with pleasure.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is not the enactment or the existence of a law, but its enforcement that determines its effectiveness. travellers in the european union seem to enjoy the highest standard of air passenger rights protection in the world. but are the highest standards really felt by the citizens of the union ? no, you can't! in practice, enforcing these rights, including seeking compensation, is very difficult for many travellers. it is true that eu law offers us, among other things, the right to reimbursement, the right to change the route, as well as the right to care in certain circumstances, the right to maintain financial compensation. but, again, the eu's rules on the protection of air passengers' rights can only play their part if, first, passengers are fully aware of their rights. when the rules are fully complied with by the airlines themselves. when you're properly executed. the revision of regulation 261/4 must therefore focus on strengthening consumer and passenger rights, rather than on any possible reduction of them. because unfortunately, these kinds of proposals do come up.
madam president! i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers! energy prices are indeed unacceptable, but they became unacceptable in the last quarter of 2021 before the war broke out. the war has accelerated everything. and you do have to make decisions about diversifying, about stocking, about saving. but unfortunately, these changes in the directive won't change anything. they're guaranteed to be absolute chaos, and without proper funding. and they're also a violation of what we've always talked about, about civic engagement, about protecting the environment, habitat, nature, because we forget about that. article 16d is unacceptable, which says that for some reason, installations for this type of renewable energy are investments for a public purpose. it means that we will allow ruthless actions by investors that will interfere with the privacy, the property of europeans, causing absolute chaos. in the context of corruption scandals, we're also opening the door to this type of activity in the placement of renewable energy investments.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the energy transition must meet specific objectives. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are not imputable to the state and that the aid is incompatible with the internal market. second, in order to ensure a fair energy transition, the differences in the level of wealth of eu citizens in the different member states should be taken into account by increasing the co-financing in countries with lower gross domestic product. the commission will also assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection. fourthly, renewable energy investments should be as low-burden as possible. article 16d, which allows for the restriction of property rights of property owners, should be deleted.
mr president, prime minister, please! i want to thank you for the words you've spoken to us in this chamber. it is of the utmost importance that the representatives of the countries of central and eastern europe be present and heard in the debate on the future of europe in the european parliament. unfortunately, it has been felt and heard all too often from the representatives of the so-called old union that countries such as slovenia, hungary, the czech republic, slovakia and, finally, my own country, poland, are countries that are entitled to less because our democracies are supposedly immature. in contrast to the supposedly mature democracies of countries like germany, france, and the netherlands. the consequences of such a policy are seen in the war in ukraine today. the voices of poland, lithuania, latvia and other countries that have historically benefited from russia, whether it was tsarist russia, bolshevik russia or, in recent years, putin's russia, were not heard. and fortunately today, the representatives of the eu institutions can also be heard saying that it is a pity that we did not listen to poland. mr. prime minister, there were some points in your speech that i agree with completely. i am referring here to the question of the presence of the western balkan countries in the european union. it is obvious that if they turn their backs on bosnia and herzegovina, sooner or later that country will be in the zone of influence of russia and even saudi wahhabis. but allow me to remain skeptical of some of your statements here. i'm not convinced that vegetarianism or a new secular religion on climate issues is the way to universal human happiness. unfortunately, some of my predecessors have been hypocritical in their comments on your speech. you're from our political family, you're law-abiding and deserving of our full support. if you're not a member of this family, you're a threat to the rule of law and democracy. and you know that the darkest hour is under the lamp, as the recent affair with the vice-president of the european parliament shows.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european agenda for culture was established in 2007 to set priorities in this area. culture is essential to the economy and social cohesion, that's obvious, although i realize not everyone sees it. it's also a truism that culture and creativity should be protected and encouraged. however, it should be borne in mind that article 167 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that member states decide on their cultural policies, while at the same time emphasising the importance of the common cultural heritage. the extended report is concerned, however, to point out that the fundamental essence of culture is the construction of identity combined with the call to support lgbt communities as victims of discrimination. is it the task of the eu institutions to promote this identity? is this group really discriminated against today and in need of support? the programme of these communities is widely present in the mainstream on both sides of the atlantic, and their activity is not spontaneous citizen action, but activities funded by millions of grants from large international corporations, some governments and local governments, and through scientific grants. lgbt movements have a specific ideology and political goals. it's the destruction of existing social relations and the whole of culture itself. it's not a politically neutral ideology. it's the left-wing parties that are incorporating it into their agenda. the communities that seek to destroy the old world are not interested in preserving cultural heritage, but in cultural revolution.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the committee on culture and education welcomes the implementation of the new european agenda for culture and the european union strategy on international cultural relations. it should be underlined that the commission and the member states have made progress in achieving most of the objectives, mainly in creating platforms for professionals in the cultural and creative sectors and in the exchange of best practices. i would also like to acknowledge the cultureu website, which is a very useful tool for mapping eu funding opportunities for the cultural and creative sectors. the availability of funding for culture is an area that needs improvement. despite the increase in the budget, the creative europe programme is still substantially underfunded. we therefore need to increase its budget accordingly in the next review of the mff. i would also like to draw attention to a very specific issue, namely the possibility of excluding the cultural and heritage sector from the reach chemicals regulation, if necessary. this exemption is particularly important for the preservation and conservation of our cultural heritage and monuments in the european union, such as the reconstruction of the famous notre dame cathedral in paris. that is why our group has tabled an amendment to this effect.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! child poverty is the biggest failure of ineffective social policies. she is a disgrace not only to certain countries, but to all of us. we also have politicians who allow this, who are moved by this poverty, who speak with emotion, but we keep talking about the same thing. i myself have repeatedly said that this is the competence of the member states and that this competence must be respected. but, gentlemen, something has to be done, because it is possible. it is possible to eliminate or significantly reduce the child poverty that keeps them stuck in the cycle of poverty for the rest of their lives. we did it in poland. from 22nd place, poland is second in terms of poverty. this is an appeal to the states. no energy crisis, no economic crisis, no lockdown is an excuse for the neglect that is. i'm signing the child's warranty. financial support is needed. we need an effective, european-wide policy to eradicate child poverty.
mr president, commissioner and minister, i'm sorry to hear that. we're all right here, but the numbers are staggering. eurostat reports that almost 95 million europeans are at risk of poverty, including energy poverty. women are the most common, 80 percent of them are women raising children. the situation of the children becomes dramatic. we have to act, because the situation is getting more dramatic. the energy crisis, the economic crisis, it's all affecting the children. it's really about their lives, their education, and our future. but i want us to tell the europeans that we are also responsible for this. energy policy is leading us to disaster. we were the ones who caused the energy crisis before the war. it is time to look at our actions - the european commission, the european union, the european parliament - holistically. you can't say, on the one hand, pay more, because we have these ambitions, more for food, more for energy, and then declare that we have to help those who are at risk of energy poverty. let's be honest, because our kids deserve it.
the commission has already done so. guarantees for children have been established at european level since 2021. this is an important step towards ensuring that children living in poverty also have access to quality health care, education and decent living conditions. however, establishing does not mean acting directly, and we must take account of the current crisis situation. as more families face the high costs, we must face a question: how can we give every child equal opportunities if there is not enough money for these goals? we need guarantees for more investment in the right direction. the health and education systems in the member states still reflect social inequalities. private health insurance and unbalanced school systems still disadvantage children in difficult situations. how can we talk about safeguards for children without talking about systematic exclusion and the two- or three-class society? we need more public money from the eu and the member states to really give children the same opportunities in the school system and in health care.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, protecting children and improving their lot is of course a laudable objective. access to education, food and recreation is fundamental, and i have made a personal commitment to child protection. in these times of energy shortages and skyrocketing living costs, it is necessary to ensure that these fundamental rights are maintained by putting the necessary funds in place. however, in doing so, the european union is in reality only hypocritically trying to repair what it has destroyed. because if the children are in a bad way, if they're hungry and cold, it's your fault. it is your blind, irrational and senseless sanctions that have deliberately deprived us of oil and gas and caused prices to skyrocket. all of this was to be expected. our group has already announced it, and you have not listened. today, it's our children who are paying the price for your bad choices. do you know that in france some schools block the heating to eleven degrees and that it is so cold in the classrooms that the principals have to send the students home? do you know that families, because of the price increases, have to limit the duration of showers, the time of lighting and the temperature of their homes? there is this terrible shortage that we dare to call "happy sobriety". the european union is really the worst placed to solve today the problem it has created. your recklessness and incompetence are the cause of the misfortunes of the europeans. the solutions are in place: re-establishing targeted sanctions, reviving the nuclear industry and lowering taxes on basic commodities, particularly energy. we can't trust the people who started the fire to put it out. now, we give a place to those who have seen the right thing and have the solutions to bring back health and hope to our compatriots and our children tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner and minister, i'm sorry to hear that. children are the first victims of all crises and that is why we must take special care of them, protect them in particular. in my country, poland, in the last eight years, the group of families living in poverty has decreased to 4.9 percent. this is the best result since we regained our independence in 1989. why did this happen? why are these the successes of the united right? because we gave the fight to the vato mafia, the dairy, the gasoline mafia, and we used that money to support children, to support families. these programs have helped thousands of children escape from hunger and deprivation. but we must know that the war in ukraine, and unfortunately the unwise, ambitious goals that frans timmermans and the european union are imposing, are leading to a return to poverty. we need to rethink this policy, especially given the fact that we have a war in ukraine and putin is exporting all the crises. putin also exports hunger to the world. we have hungry children in lebanon, in syria, in many other places, in africa, where grain has not arrived from ukraine. and that's something we have to think about. only a wise and prudent policy, at this moment, of the union and the withdrawal from the climate and energy package, which unfortunately will cause enormous poverty, is and should be our goal of action.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we have already seen how much controversy was caused by the visit of german chancellor olaf scholz to china and the decision to make available to the chinese company cosco a stake in the new project of the port of hamburg, which is to consist in the construction of a new section of the container port. today, german media are reporting that cosco's activities in hamburg are just the beginning. there are credible reports that china has been discussing with the hamburg port authority for some time the possibility of germany's involvement in cooperation with china in the mediterranean and baltic sea basins. according to the document of the federal ministry of economics and technology, it was also agreed to explore the possibility of jointly acquiring shares in container terminals in polish ports. why am i saying this? i would like to ask if the european commission is looking into this kind of activity, because we are in the european union and we all agree that china's takeover of strategic infrastructure is a threat to our security and our sovereignty. but under the guise of chinese companies working with partners in the european union, like this example, will there be an attempt to enter our ports through the back door?
i'm not going to let you down. thank you very much, but in a specific example, i'm a citizen of szczecin, a former sailor. my colleagues at the port give a specific example. at the moment, there is an attempt to take over, based on the regulations in force in poland, because the commissioner is absolutely, 100% right, that it is the member states that must take care of their own security first and foremost. poland is doing very well. the ministry of defense has repeatedly refused to allow the chinese to buy critical parts of the port in tri-city, gdańsk or gdynia, but in a specific example: today in the port of szczecin there is an attempt to take over not property, not land, but an operating company dealing with transshipments important from the point of view of energy security, cargo. and now this company is about to be taken over by a german company. port authority says something like, "we have a problem". the relevant institutions in poland say we have a problem, because in a moment the european commission, if we refuse to sell this part of the shares, the european commission may challenge this as anti-competitive actions, contrary to the free flow of funds within the european union.
mr president, it does look like a surreal netflix movie, but it's waking up to a harsh reality. colleagues in our parliament and in ngos have engaged in corruption. in our worst dreams, we couldn't have imagined that. the confidence in european democracy has been shaken and there is only one answer to that. we can only condemn this in the strongest possible terms. there's no room for corruption here. not now, and not ever. at the same time, it is not just a time for words, but also for action. and those actions must begin with ourselves. that means that, in addition to setting up our own inquiry committee, we want to call for an independent inquiry into these events. at the same time - and i say this - we support the call for a review of the rules governing lobbying meetings, starting with third countries, which have unhindered access to parliament. it's time to act. it's time to act.
mr president, commissioner johansson, this european parliament was the first parliament in the world to legislate criminal and procedural protection for whistleblowers. this european parliament has legislated with harshness and in a way that is binding on all member states against all forms of corruption and money laundering. that is why this parliament must be rigorously united, without breaks, in condemning the corrupt and the corrupters, in cooperating with the judiciary during an investigation still in progress and in its readiness to draw the inescapable lessons. but it also has to stand united and unwavering in defending its integrity and transparency - in fact, it is the most accessible and transparent parliament in the world. it must also be united in condemning anyone who by his acts and criminal responsibility proves that he was never worthy of the trust that is obtained in order to have the right, the duty and the dignity to represent european citizens in this parliament.
mr. chairman, please! there are no sacred cows in the european parliament. the vice president is in custody. what is the union's response? first, full cooperation with the authorities. second, the immediate suspension of all privileges. third, the removal of the vice president. fourthly, a plenary debate and a resolution on this subject. the union has reacted with all the force of law, because there is no tariff relief for those who have betrayed european values. because that's what the rule of law is all about, to respond, to fight the violation of the law, where all are equal. and today those on the right who complain about the lack of rule of law in the union have forgotten. they forgot the twin towers, they forgot meija, they forgot the respirators, they forgot the envelope elections in poland. who was responsible? learn from the union, learn how to respond to breaking the law. zero tolerance for corruption, zero tolerance for breaking the law.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we are all concerned about the latest wave of tensions in the occupied palestinian territories, including east jerusalem. this year has been one of the deadliest for palestinians in the west bank in over a decade. they are experiencing violence from israeli security forces, but also from settlers. at the same time, all terrorist attacks in israel must be condemned. the european union is committed to the protection of the rights of the palestinian people and the rights of the palestinian people, and to the protection of their own people. ladies and gentlemen, in a few days we will be celebrating christmas, and it is impossible not to mention the palestinians who for centuries in bethlehem, in nazareth, have remained faithful to their faith, and today are suffering persecution from both israel and their muslim brothers. i think that the european parliament should be particularly vocal in support of palestinian christians in israel these days.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i too, like my colleague, mr adam bielan, would like to express our support for the people of president saakashvili who are here. poland and georgia are countries that share a centuries-old, very close cooperation and therefore georgia is a priority partner of poland in the south caucasus region. we strongly support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia within its internationally recognised borders, as we have also underlined during our chairmanship of the osce. we also reaffirm our unwavering support for georgia's euro-atlantic aspirations. poland maintains its commitment to the open door policy with regard to georgia's future full membership of the european union and nato. there is no alternative, especially since the georgian people strongly support this direction. but it must be said clearly: georgia will never join the european union if it continues to treat politicians in such an inhuman and bestial way. and here today should be words of special support and assistance for the gravely ill president saakashvili, who is today being denied the humanitarian, human rights to be treated by the georgian authorities. the president's body was found to contain heavy metals. well, in real life, it's more like putin's standards than a democratic rule of law.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. madam chairman of the commission! ladies and gentlemen! listening to some of you here today, i have the impression that we are living in an alternative reality, because everything you are talking about here is set in a situation as if there were no war in europe. this war is still on. this war is outside our borders, directly outside the european union. ukraine is fighting back, but it needs support. i know that there are politicians in europe who are already beginning to think about another reality, and like the french president, they are demanding guarantees for russia. it would be worth asking the european council what president macron had in mind. it is our duty to support ukraine, but it is also our duty to think about what we can do to protect the european union countries, the european people from the costs of this terrible war and to ensure their security, including energy security. the president began her speech with a reflection on three years ago, when she praised the green deal and said that it was an opportunity for europe. today, you might be wondering what the cost of this green order is. the businessmen are complaining. high energy prices for europeans. and we hear all the time about accelerating transformation. it's time to start thinking pragmatically. today, europe is in a serious crisis because of the war in ukraine. and our duty is to defend security first and to protect europeans from poverty. yes, we need to make the energy transition so that we do not make the same mistakes that the commission and parliament made years ago. three years ago, when i started, when the chairwoman was talking about the green berets. you supported nordstream 2 and supported russia to dominate the fuel and energy market in the european union. we must learn from this, but we must do so sensibly, thinking first of all of the europeans. i also join in the wishes to all the countries and i want to remind you that we will enjoy the christmas holidays.
in writing. the december european council is an important opportunity to reflect on the most important challenges facing the european union countries today. the consequences of russia's ongoing aggression against ukraine extend beyond ukraine's borders and are increasingly felt by all of us. while western europe is experiencing huge increases in energy prices, the ukrainian nation itself is facing a far more complex set of disasters: the lack of heating, water and electricity supplies as a result of regular attacks on the country's critical infrastructure. all this, in addition, in the winter, is a challenge for the defenders of ukraine's independence, and for all of us a call for solidarity. one of the topics for the council meeting is energy and the economic situation. europeans are now paying the bill for years of irresponsible energy policy based on dependence on russian gas. most europeans now seem to have understood how wrong this policy was. but we must do everything we can to diversify energy supplies, to stabilise prices, to help those who need it the most to survive the harsh winter months and to rethink the community's energy policy. we warned against the nord stream project, then nord stream ii, but the polish voice was not heard. we need to change that and learn from it so we don't make the same mistakes twice.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for the discipline, and thank you all so very much for a debate that has, i think, covered basically every corner, every possible idea, every possible view of europe. i’ve heard europe described as waning, as weak, as without focus, as with no targets. so please allow me to tell how i see it. we have in europe set a direction. we know where we want to go. we want to be a green, decarbonised continent. we want to use digital solutions to create societies where people feel at home. we have set a direction. in my opinion, we have done that together. because one can go nowhere without knowing where you want to go. and this is, of course, why we have done so many things in order to get there. we have survived the pandemic. and not only that, we have for the first time created a gigantic facility. we have taken steps together. the recovery and resilience facility, with the plans of every member state of investing in green and in digital transition – that is part of the answer. next year will be a year of skills, hopefully as fast as possible because, as said by some today, we need that. without the knowledge, without the skills, without knowing what to do, europe will not be able to achieve where we want to go. we have horizon europe, the biggest, most ambitious research programme on this planet that can take us to where we want to go in basically every field. and also in the most emerging technologies: what comes beyond 5g and 6g? where will we want to go in quantum? the most amazing research projects translating into innovation, into businesses. and the thing is, we know where we want to go, now circumstances are changing. and the good news is that someone wants to join us in fighting climate change. and when circumstances change, we adapt. we do not change, we do not shiver, because we know where we want to go. and i think that adaptation is really important. and the thing that we can do on a very, very short-term basis is not to reform what we believe in when it comes to state aid, but to adapt to give member states clear options to support strategic sectors and to do it really fast. and really fast is not after long, long, long processes. really fast is to get it started by mid-january. and the reason why this is so important is that investment decisions, they are taken now. that is why this signal – that member states want to stand up to ensure that it is as attractive to invest in europe, to stay in europe, to be part of the supply chains in europe that create millions and millions of jobs – that is of the essence. but obviously, this is not enough because member states are different. i completely agree that we should look at every fund we have. what is not being used can be reused for strategic investment. that is a prudent approach to taxpayers’ funding. but the reason why the adaptation of state aid rules must be temporary is that state aid is a direct transfer from taxpayers to shareholders, and that is 100% legitimate if there is something in it for the taxpayer – here, greening of our economy, greening of our society, jobs to maintain in europe. but in the long term, obviously european industry should be competitive by itself. and this is why the fund is important. this is why the greening is important. this is why the celebration of the 30 years of the single market should be a tour d’horizon of our competitiveness – to see that there are more adjustments that we need to make in order to be fully competitive. but the starting point of competitive european industry is a well-functioning single market and competition that drives innovation so that everyone knows that it’s not the taxpayers picking up the bills; it’s taxpayers investing where there is a strategic sector that needs that investment. that is the important thing. that is the plan that we have laid out. that is a plan that can be triggered with a very, very short time horizon. and that is important to ensure that when we achieve our strategic targets, we do that with sufficient flexibility to adjust to a change of circumstance around us so that we will fight climate change, but we will do that by also enabling our industrial strategy. and that industrial strategy has set the aim for european industry to be leaders when it comes to green and when it comes to digital. that is not a europe that is weak. that is a europe that builds on its strengths and does that with partners and with allies, because this is our interest and this is how we serve europeans.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, vice-president of the commission. thank you for this debate. europe needs to reflect on how we can act collectively and reflect on all the possible tools we can display to make sure we remain resilient and competitive. the european council will have a very timely opportunity to give political guidance on possible actions. serious efforts for finding credible solutions are underway. we must keep engaging with the us at many levels and allow the ongoing talks with our us partners to run their course in parallel, however, we also need to do our homework. we will need to be ready to react if necessary once the inflation reduction act is in place at the beginning of next year, while putting a strong emphasis on avoiding a trade war with the us at this particularly delicate geostrategic moment.
thank you very much, personally and on behalf of this house, for your committed work during the presidency.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – the inflation reduction act was presented in a positive way in the us – it is supposed to curb inflation, deal with taxation and focus on green energy. nevertheless, one can perceive that the inflation reduction act is based on unfair cooperation with america’s partners – such as the eu. i will name only few examples of how the inflation reduction act might undermine the european-american friendship. first, the us ties its subsidies and tax breaks exclusively to the production of raw materials, intermediate products and complete production in the us or in north america, undermining the wto agreements. second, the minimum tax of 15%, deviates from the international oecd negotiations. it weakens the deal by not being a truly effective tax rate, giving a wrong example and making more countries adopt tax credits or engage in aggressive competition to grant subsidies to companies to ‘compensate’ for higher effective tax rates. this is not what we all fought for. true friendship is about transparency, cooperation and facing challenges together. i call on the commission to take steps in the discussions with the us. i hope that soon we will not have to quote yesterday’s birthday child taylor swift when discussing us-eu relations: ‘so take a look at what you’ve done. now we’ve got bad blood.’
i'm not going to let you get away with this. you want to fight the causes of high cost of living and inflation very well. i think you should start by looking in the mirror. what's the most important component of inflation? high energy prices. where did they come from? why are energy prices so high? because for years you've forced everyone to give up coal and switch to gas with an absurd law. and what happened? putin's got your dick in a twist and he's gone. inflation has gone up and coal has to be imported from exotic countries, even though we have a lot of it in europe, especially in poland. but instead of thinking about how the wiser ones told you that dependence on putin would end like this, you were busy with something else, namely looking for alleged violations of the rule of law in poland. and you were so desperate to find this violation of the rule of law in poland that you didn't notice the qatari ads in your own ranks. that's how this ends. and instead of learning from what you've done, you keep doing the same thing. the netherlands - commissioner, this is for you - the netherlands: a couple of dozen new redundancies for russian companies. what are you doing with it? and the aid to the german economy, 200 billion, why is it approved? what's that supposed to do? is this supposed to help fight inflation? what's with the double standards? and you're still blocking aid to poland, without which ukraine would have collapsed long ago. this is the road to nowhere. you keep doing the same thing, expecting different results.
madam president! i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! europe has unfortunately fallen victim to the eu's energy policy, badly planned and, indeed, persistently pursued by the european commission and the green-minded eurocrats. for years you have fought against coal, against coal-based energy, and today you are very eager to import this coal from exotic countries. you open new mines, you bring down power plants back to life. and for years you have been deaf to the arguments of those who have said loud and clear that the eu's energy policy is leading europe to the precipice of financial collapse. now many citizens of european union countries, including my own country - poles and poles - are paying the price for these mistakes. they're paying for the rotten gas deals with putin and russia. inflation driven by astronomical energy prices is draining household budgets and killing off all our businesses. how are they supposed to raise their own workers' salaries when they have to close their factories because of the energy costs? in these crazy times, we have only one solution: the urgent suspension of the provisions of the climate and energy package and the resignation of the "fit for 55" package. he's too ambitious for this day and age.
mr president, austria's veto against romania's accession to schengen has created a wave of shock and frustration in my country. a shock to the monument of injustice done and a frustration that the european union, which they trusted, allowed this to happen. unanimity is an anachronistic reminder of the beginnings of a union that cannot work in 27 countries. or, more precisely, it cannot work for the benefit of the union, but for the populists and blackmailers. because, yes, to be clear, unanimity means that the union's agenda is held hostage by the least interested in our common interest, as we have seen in recent times. we can't tolerate this any longer. unanimity is not democracy. democracy means majority. let us amend the treaties to eliminate this abuse of the veto that the union is sick of.
mr minister, mr commissioner, i have to go. the debate over the veto has, of course, two sides. on the one hand, we have countries that are afraid of being voted. and this is not just about small countries, it's about big countries as well. on the other hand, there is the fear of using the veto as a blackmail method. there are many different points of view to consider, but the main consideration is the effectiveness of the european union. effectiveness requires speed of decision. it is time to talk about which european policies require unanimity and which ones, however, need to be decided away from unanimity in the name of efficiency and better effectiveness. example: the multiannual financial framework is decided unanimously by the council. parliament will vote again tomorrow on a text which asks the council to give all governments the unanimous power to vote by majority so that certain budgetary processes relating to the governance of the union can be accelerated. i would therefore ask the council representative to consider this possibility, because everyday decisions require speed, efficiency, to be taken at the moment when they are really needed. that's why the veto has its different sides. i am referring to the effectiveness of the european union.
mr president, commissioner gentiloni, the day will come when the european union will dare once and for all to make a more perfect union, as we europeans dream, and when national vetoes will be an antiquity and a relic of the past. unanimity may make sense for constitutional matters and for the enlargement of the european union itself. but experience clearly shows that national vetoes have become a brake, an obstacle, if not a possibility for a single member state to exercise rights without obligations. and the right is to prevent the decision-making and legislative machinery of the european union from functioning. and therefore prevent the european union from being able to respond. blockade, stuck in a dizzying time that demands responses as quick as they are effective. is it permissible to maintain the veto in its own resources indefinitely? on the big financial issues? in the multiannual financial framework? is it permissible for a veto to be used to prevent access to free movement and the schengen area for two member states by a single member state of the european union? the answer is simply no. and that is why it is urgent to review the veto rule, which in experience means that the european union can become a giant, not a slow-moving one, but frozen in time, when everyone around is demanding answers from the european union so that it can prove its will to be, yes, a more perfect union. i hope our eyes see it. and i am sure that many of the beating hearts in this european parliament will be happy about that.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. you condemn the abuse of what you call the national veto, which is a law written into treaties. you're just annoyed by treaties. you're in trouble with the law. you guys want to do everything by brute force. that's what you are as a democratic body. and you're dividing the vet up into better and worse by nationality. poland can't, but the netherlands and austria are already better vetoes than they were recently on schengen. what is that if not racism? exactly the same as the rule of law. there are countries where politicians can choose judges, and there are countries where they can't. what is that if not racism? and where does that lead? you mean the majority is always right? and were the majority right about nord stream and europe's dependence on gas? so the majority was right then? and was the majority right when most countries were selling arms and ammunition parts to russia? was the majority right then, too? or is it a minority? but is it better to have a veto on such matters? so, ladies and gentlemen, if you really care about the rule of law and treaties, then you should start by respecting those treaties. and then everything will be better.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! i'm sure a few days ago, this debate would have been very different. we would be talking primarily about russian interference in the democratic systems of our member states, in the european union. but today it is impossible to go over the agenda of what happened, the corruption scandal in which the vice-president of the european parliament from the socialist group was the main character. and i believe that deeply and i hope that it will not end up in resolutions and debates and that we will talk here, but that the whole thing will be really thoroughly examined. the european parliament talks a lot and likes to talk about the rule of law, about interference with democracy. it is very keen to deal with the rule of law in the member states, including by attacking democratically elected governments, as for example in poland. perhaps if more thought were given here to what is happening in the european institutions, in the european parliament and in other institutions, we could avoid this situation. there is no doubt that this debate must lead to conclusions that will be effectively respected in the european institutions, because the europeans have trusted us. we owe it to them to make this all clear so that it doesn't happen again.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if you go to sleep in a democracy, you will wake up in a dictatorship. and this motto, which my father always said, has been with me all my life. we can't sleep. there's a case that's being dealt with, but there could be an incredible number of cases if we allow someone to come into our democratic system without being invited. how many times have we talked about iran not being a democracy? how many times have we criticized russia? how many times do we call attention to human rights in china? and if we take resolutions or we take different materials, our position papers, how often is there criticism of our partners all over the world? i think that if we do not have the courage to name these things, that this corruption does not only come through the states, but that the states also use some non-profit organizations that operate on the grounds of the european parliament, then we will never be able to fight against these ways of influencing events not only in europe, but also everywhere in the world. i think we should work together. we should be much more focused on really getting to the bottom of who influences us, and we should want to get these people who don't respect our democracy out of our homes and out of our places, because they are the biggest threat to our values.
mr president, after russia's invasion of ukraine, european defence against foreign infiltration aimed at destabilisation has become even more important. aggressive foreign penetration of the internet and public opinion is part of hybrid warfare, and in russia's case it prepared the invasion of ukraine. putin's brutality has destroyed the credibility of his propaganda apparatus. but we are facing problems because of the war, which russia is trying to exploit. we must therefore be vigilant and effective in our reactions. there are others who are trying to penetrate the european union with methods more advanced and more long-term than those used by russia. we must therefore coordinate better in checking the information published and reacting swiftly in the event of fake news.
mr president the united hungarian left was financed by non-european interest groups in the hungarian election campaign in the amount of 3 billion forints. meanwhile, here in parliament, politicians belonging to the european left - on the basis of suspicion arising from the criminal proceedings - have also received money from outside europe to serve interests outside the union with their political positions. while members of the european left present themselves as being committed to the utmost to the protection of the rule of law and working people, to the fight against corruption, and to accusing hungary on a daily basis with their lies, it seems that in reality their position is something that can be bought. all of this shows that the left is trying to mislead the electorate, and it's time for them to finally look at themselves, do some moral, political self-examination.
mr president, i wish to thank the commissioner for his introduction. foreign interference in democracies is, of course, a very broad subject. in that sense, the scandal that were dealing with is easy because taking cash from people is illegal under any rules. but i agree with my colleague mr auštrevičius when he says that we should not only punish those who’ve been corrupt, but also the corruptors. qatar should – if it indeed was qatar – come to regret what they’ve tried to do. i also agree with my colleague ms geese that attacks on social media are troubling, and what’s happening at twitter is no good. we have also tolerated the activities of russia today or sputnik for far too long. i have personally been targeted by the russian fancy bear organisation, and pegasus can, of course, be used not only by governments among member states, but also by external entities. but i think what is crucial is what mr groothuis said, that we need an ecosystem here that is non-permissive. therefore i call on roberta metsola, who promised me when she was canvassing for votes, that we would create a dedicated unit here in the european parliament that would be dedicated to vetting and to counter—intelligence. let us do this before we have another crisis and another scandal on our hands.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. fellow workers! the debate so far has shown that democracy is not keeping pace with technological progress, and that this is a threat to its independence. the inge committee identifies these threats, but i think that the eu institutions should significantly accelerate the introduction of legislative solutions that allow effective defence against interference by foreign regimes in electoral processes, their results and, ultimately, in the political situation in the member states. the situation in the united kingdom is a striking example. and also, the recent, and painful, corruption events show that we know who took the money, but we don't know who gave the money. and yet the other side is just as responsible as the first. in my country, poland, we're fighting the attack on the opposition with the pegasus program. there's an unexplained problem of leaked emails from government mailboxes full of classified information about the state of the nation. there is an open war on the polish border, but there is also another war going on in the privacy of the office, in the online space, which authoritarian regimes have spent nearly $300 million on since 2020. in this quiet war, the freedom, liberty and independence of european democracy are at stake. there's no room for us to fail. our victory is our duty.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. a healthy democracy can only exist when citizens have access to honest and objective information. when independent journalists are attacked and intimidated, then the right of citizens to access information and fair elections is attacked. an attack, and in particular an attack by the authorities on independent journalism, is an attack on the foundations of the rule of law. again, protecting journalists who create a free and independent media is protecting the safety net of democracy. fighting the politicization of the media and attacks on independent journalists is not just about protecting human rights and freedom of speech. these are often violent and bloody attacks that shut the mouths of the victims forever. when hate speech is heard on the loudspeakers and on the screens of public media, the result can be death. the media, when it becomes a tool of political manipulation, can become a knife in the heart of our democracy. union action cannot be limited to monitoring. the commission's reports on this matter are alarming. these must be followed by measurable tools control of media ownership, protection of transparency and independence of funding, in particular of public media, protection and independence of journalists.
madam president! i've been listening with great interest to this debate. it is very much needed and i am convinced that the protection of the honest media is absolutely necessary. i'm also in favor of protecting independent journalism. however, poland was mentioned several times in this report. i find these very hurtful comments. in poland, there are private media with german capital, private tv stations, private newspapers. there is no problem with media pluralism in poland. i don't know where or who wanted to show some cases of suppression of journalistic freedom in poland, because we had the biggest scandal in the history of poland, when it comes to the persecution of the media under the rule of donald tusk. it was june of 2014, when the homeland security agency went straight into the newspaper. to this day, those journalists are still alive, remembering that action. the computers were taken, the newsroom was shut down, and the disks were copied. and this is the biggest scandal in the history of poland. and then mr donald tusk became president of the european council.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! improving the multiannual financial framework yes. breaking the treaties is not. of course, we support any action that will bring relief to the struggling ukrainian people. we agree. we also want to remember that support is due to member states that help refugees fleeing the war in ukraine to different countries. this is something that should be noted in the eu budget. the decision to grant candidate country status to ukraine and moldova should also be welcomed. we'll back that up. in addition, we agree that the role of the union budget as guarantor of additional macro-financial assistance to ukraine is essential. we support that, too. however, we must call for new policy initiatives to be financed with fresh resources without prejudice to pre-existing union programmes or policies, and new resources must not be aggressive. and that might work, because we hear that some countries will lose their income as a result of new tax ideas, like poland. we just have a lot to lose with these new ideas. nor can we accept the move away from unanimity to qualified majority voting for the adoption of the regulation on the multiannual financial framework. this idea is very damaging to the solidarity policy of the eu countries and to mutual trust. the imposition of qualified majority voting risks widening the differences between member states. the bigger will be the more important, the smaller will be the more suppressed. that's what we're very worried about. this is a cardinal change and we don't want to agree to it. so let us do everything we can to avoid undermining the unity of the european union.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the five motions for resolutions on the chinese government's crackdown on peaceful protests in the people's republic of china (2022/2992 ((rsp)) 1.__________________1 see minutes of the meeting.
i would just like to point out, madam president, that during the debate you were able to ask a question to the member of parliament under the blue card. the member of the house has left the chamber. ladies and gentlemen of the court, please refer to the rules of procedure.
i would ask that when we vote on procedural matters, you refer to the number of the rule under which we are voting.
mr. postle, pursuant to rule 10 of the rules of procedure, please use only parliamentary language in this room.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2022.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on the repression of peaceful demonstrations by the military junta in chad (2022/2993 (rsp)) the president of the court of justice shall be the judge of the general court.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on human rights defender abdulhadi al-chawadji in bahrain (2022/2994 (rsp)) 1.________________1see the minutes of the meeting.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2022.
the next item is the explanation of the position adopted by the vote.
i'm closing this discussion on the agenda.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, thursday 15 december 2022, at 9.00 a.m. the agenda has been published. it is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of today's sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval early tomorrow afternoon. so that was the last item on our agenda for today. i'll close the meeting with a good night.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. two years ago, during the debate on the minority safepack, i used silesian for the first time in the history of the parliament and proved that silesian is a separate language and not a dialect of polish. but the history of our silesian struggle has many facets. the recognition of the slavonic language as a regional language in poland has been attempted many times so far without result. because there's always something more important than the silesian case. we're only needed when there's an election and when we're providing the raw material for a little-understood folklore somewhere on the frontier. and we demand recognition of our language. we demand recognition of silesian men and women as an ethnic minority. a law on this matter will be drafted in the sejm soon. we demand regional education in the schools of silesia. because the history of silesia is different from the history of poland. different as the oder and the vistula. we are learning about the steppes of akermany, and we are not teaching our children the rich history of our silesian cities. he's missing our heroes in all the pantheons. he doesn't mention the silesian nobel prize winners. last year we were pushed into the "other" category in the census. we're outcasts, they don't want us to be us. today, a year and a half after the census, after the hard work i did with the silesian stam, they don't want to give much, it's a nose full of slav nation and slav language. it's happening right here, right now. what are you afraid of? multiculturalism is a good thing. because it's normal to be a silesian or a kashubian and at the same time a polish citizen. don't be afraid to quote the classics.
madam president, for 30 years we have hoped that the un declaration would also help to protect european minorities. since 2004, i have been fighting for the protection of indigenous national and linguistic minorities in the european parliament. as co-chair of the minorities working group, we have since been confronted with the fact that millions of eu citizens including hundreds of thousands of hungarians are treated as second-class citizens in many eu member states. despite the discrimination, the many violations, the limitation or lack of use of the mother tongue, the european commission does not want to become a champion of the rights of these minorities. so they fall victim to double standards, their pleas fall on deaf ears. think of the european citizens' initiative for minorities, backed by millions, which the committee swept off the table with a loose hand. the european court of justice has confirmed this decision in a judgment. there is a great need for a comprehensive framework for the protection of european, indigenous, national and linguistic minorities. the european parliament has not yet adopted a resolution on this important issue.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for france, freedom is the right of every individual to free himself from his biological and cultural determinism. it therefore does not recognise the existence of any minority or community which would stand between the individual and the nation. on the other hand, the declaration on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic minorities, adopted by the un in 1992, aims to institutionalize these obstacles. it is therefore incompatible with the french concept of freedom. article 1 of the convention requires states to protect the existence and national or ethnic identity of minorities living in their territory. france, on the contrary, is striving to promote the assimilation of persons from these minorities into the national community, which is the only community it recognises. by celebrating the 30th anniversary of this declaration, the european parliament is proving that it is completely alien to the french political tradition. he thus confirms his lack of legitimacy to speak on behalf of the french people.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the commission has developed a very solid set of legislation and measures which benefit minorities across europe and at the same time is mindful that the issues relating to the recognition of the status of minorities and the use of regional or minority languages remains a responsibility of member states. you can rest assured that the commission is committed to continuing to protect minorities both within and outside the eu.
madam president, i just want to reply to lies that we have heard a few minutes ago. they referred to my status and they referred to the supposed persecution of spanish in catalan schools. both are lies. i participated in a government that organised a referendum and that doesn’t please the spanish authorities. i have always defended myself in the courts of law that have asked me to defend myself. and i’m not a fugitive. i was just part of a democratic government that organised a referendum. a referendum is a situation where people put pieces of paper in boxes. if that is a crime, we should revise the status of spain as a member of the union. and if you have a hesitation about the status of spanish in catalan schools, just go and walk on the streets of barcelona and try to find the child that does not speak spanish. and then you try to find the child that speaks good catalan and that’s going to be a lot more difficult.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the great famine of 1932 to 1933, the holodomor, is one of the major tragedies of the 20th century, which took the lives of so many ukrainians and other persons across the soviet union. this was highlighted on 26 november at the 90th anniversary of the holodomor, honouring the memory of ukraine’s victims. ninety years after the holodomor, russia is again using food as a weapon in the brutal war of aggression against ukraine, by destroying ukraine’s agricultural production, mining its fields and blocking its ports. today, the european union stands together with ukraine in the pursuit to help avert hunger across the world. we support ukraine’s newly launched initiative, ‘grains for ukraine’, which testifies to our joint solidarity with the global efforts to fight hunger caused by russia’s war of aggression. our eu—ukraine solidarity lanes continue to be essential corridors for ukraine’s agricultural and other exports and imports, bringing income to ukraine and to its economy. we strongly support the un—backed black sea grain deal. together with our solidarity lanes, they are allowed to export more than 30 million tonnes of grains and other foodstuffs. with hindsight, we can draw some more positive lessons from holodomor. it reminds us that such a tragedy can only be possible in a world in which respect for human rights and the rule of law and democratic principles is absent. the european union itself was built out of the ashes of war and different experiences of totalitarianism, and yet these same tragedies have shaped and driven the extraordinary achievements of a united europe over the past 60 years.today, ukraine is transformed as well – as an independent state, as a member of the council of europe and as a signatory to the european convention on human rights and a number of other international human rights instruments. while our immediate goal is to help ukraine win the war, we will support ukraine to also win peace, to become a modern democratic state. in this regard, ukraine’s eu candidate status is an opportunity. progress on key reforms could serve a double purpose: strengthening ukraine’s resilience and also helping it advance on its european path as a modern democracy, matching thus the will of the ukrainian people.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear about what happened in the 1930s. it wasn’t a natural disaster. there was first the collectivisation, and then stalin blamed the victims. and throughout that time, the soviet union was exporting grain. what happened was that internal troops, nkvd, was sent to ukraine, surrounded places district by district, activists took grain and all the food that there was away from the peasants and then, while surrounded, the troops waited until everybody died – up to 5 million people. i commend to you the definitive work on this subject, red famine by anne applebaum, who happens to be my wife. there was famine in other parts of the soviet union, but in ukraine it was accompanied by a vicious purge of the bearers of ukrainian culture in the cities as well, up to 200 000 people. and the reason why it’s important to commemorate this is that putin is trying to do by somewhat similar means the same thing again, namely to reduce the ukrainian nation to the status of russian folklore, but to deny ukraine the right to exist as a separate culture, separate nation, and a separate functioning, democratic and pro-european state. this is what we are talking about. so it’s very important and couldn’t come at a better time that we should pass this resolution. i commend it to the house.
on behalf of the s&d group. there were many acts of genocide in the 20th century. the belgian congo, the armenians in 1915, the japanese crimes in china, the holocaust, mao's china, nigeria, cambodia, rwanda, srebrenica and many others. people were gassed, shot, cut with swords or machetes. 90 years ago, on stalin's orders, a different method was used. the simplest. it was decided to kill millions of people, taking all their food. the later explanation that the whole country needed food was and is an obvious lie. not just some of the food, but all of it. people were brutally prevented from moving to other parts of ukraine. this tragedy was long unknown or little known. the soviet union and its successor russia have never acknowledged this crime. even in independent ukraine, for a while, this was not a topic that was addressed by the authorities. this situation has changed considerably, but not completely. many countries have paid tribute to the victims of the holodomor and have recognized the crime as genocide. it is time that we, the european parliament, representing our societies, also recognize the holodomor as an act of genocide. we urge those who have not yet done so to follow suit. we call on russia to clearly confirm that the holodomor took place, was the result of deliberate decisions of the soviet authorities and to apologize to the ukrainian people. we urge everyone to share archival materials so that the truth about the holodomor can be described as fully as possible and used in the education of future generations. for the victims of the holodomor, there's only one thing we can do: remember them.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the debate today testifies to our continued engagement to keep alive the sad memory of holodomor. the innocent lives it claimed are not forgotten. it is vital that we prevent such tragedies from happening again. let me stress once again that the eu will continue to act and prevent efforts to use hunger as a weapon. the european union remains an active and responsible actor. we stand in solidarity with ukraine and with the global efforts to fight the hunger caused by russia’s war of aggression. and we should also be firm in fighting russia’s lies that the european union is responsible for the rise in food prices.
in writing. the holodomor, or famine, is perhaps one of the greatest tragedies in the history of the ukrainian people. the artificial famine of 90 years ago, from april 1932 to november 1933, claimed the lives of millions of ukrainians whose only crime was their national affiliation. the starvation of the ukrainian people was actually a genocide carried out on stalin's orders. more than 20 countries around the world, including hungary, have recognized the horrors of the holocaust as genocide. we hungarians suffered under stalin's dictatorship, so we understand the tragedy of the event. in the autumn of 1944, soviet troops occupied transcarpathia, and about thirty thousand men of hungarian nationality between 18 and 50 years of age were deported to prisoner-of-war camps, more than ten thousand of them never returned home. the hungarian men were recruited for three days of restoration work, called "malenkij robotra" in the vernacular, but instead of doing the small work, they were interned in forced labor camps, which was clearly ethnic cleansing. those victims have not been rehabilitated to this day, nor have they been apologized for. the victims of the malenki robot and the holocaust are also victims of stalin's dictatorship. it is important that we condemn these acts at european level and that we do not allow them to be repeated. hungary, as a good neighbor, has always stood by ukraine, and was among the first to recognize the holocaust as genocide.
in writing. the starvation of a people must not be allowed to be forgotten. just like he took the gulag, sent hungarians to work camps, to death. the victims of communism and dictatorships, the hundreds of thousands of men, women and children who were hanged, sentenced to death, and the clusters of families torn apart have not been given justice to this day. you can't fix history, you can't change it. but it is our duty to remember the victims with mercy, to preserve the dignified memory of those who were taken. this will help to pass on to future generations a legacy of life and righteousness.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, russia is taking its unjustified war against ukraine to a new level. as we meet, the kremlin’s forces are committing brutal war crimes across the country. they are bombarding ukrainian infrastructure. waves of attacks on the country’s electricity grid are being launched every day. rockets are striking the power stations repeatedly. putin’s war machine has one clear goal: to have ukrainians freeze and suffer this winter. all of this is having a tragic impact on the humanitarian situation across the country. according to the un’s latest estimates, nearly 80 million people are in dire need of humanitarian assistance in ukraine. millions of ukrainians are struggling to access healthcare, food and basic social services. in every region of ukraine, there are areas where people are living without heating, without electricity, without water, some continuously. for nearly 10 months, the european union has remained firmly committed to ukraine and its people. i want to assure this house that this support is unwavering. we are with ukraine for the long haul. as a humanitarian donor, the eu’s funding commitments are strong and significant. over eur 485 million of humanitarian aid has already been allocated by the eu to ukraine this year. with this support, we are providing critical health, protection and shelter assistance needed by the ukrainian people. more than 13 million ukrainians have benefited directly from eu humanitarian aid. this is thanks to the tireless efforts of many international humanitarian partners, the international committee of the red cross, unicef and the who, to name just a few. but more needs to be done for the people of ukraine. across the country, temperatures are now dropping to below freezing. as the eu, we must stand ready to support ukrainian authorities in providing light and heat to residential buildings, to hospitals and to schools, to the people living there. this is why we are turning our attention to ukraine’s growing winter needs. our humanitarian package now includes targeted winter support worth eur 130 million. with this aid, we are helping partners to distribute emergency shelter and lights, and establish temporary reception centres across the country. in parallel, we are also mobilising more lifesaving supplies directly for the ukrainian people. through the eu civil protection mechanism, we have coordinated the delivery of almost 77 000 tonnes of assistance since february, and this is a clear display of eu solidarity in action. with the support of our member states, we have already offered over 1 000 generators to ukraine. last week, we mobilised 40 large generators for our new eu stockpile. this would guarantee power for 30 hospitals in ukraine. we will soon also have 120 medium to large generators in stock, and we will take further action to expand the power generator capacity of resceu. our union’s civil protection mechanism is also supporting the generators of hope initiative of parliament’s president metsola and eurocities. honourable members, the european union is determined to scale up its support in view of these unprecedented challenges. at the conference call by presidents macron and zelenskyy in paris last tuesday, commission president von der leyen already announced further support in the field of energy. in the face of these enormous challenges, the european union, member states, g7 and other international partners have to work together to increase the impact of our aid. for this reason, the emergency response coordination centre in the european commission will be stepping up its coordination activities in order to pool energy assistance from all eu member states and third countries in a newly established eu energy hub in poland and channel it into ukraine. i look forward to hearing your views throughout our debate.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, madam commissioner, to those who are accompanying their condemnation of russia with nuances, in the face of what is the most serious act of de-civilisation in europe since the second world war, i say: are you not afraid, in time of war, to strengthen the enemy? have you not noticed that vladimir putin has for years been leading an authoritarian, nationalist, identity-oriented, religious and reactionary far-right international, which has become a threat to all of europe? don't you understand that all over ukraine, all our democracies are under attack? other our solidarity with the ukrainian people in resistance against the invader is total. in this winter, when ukrainians are lacking everything - food, water, clothing and electricity, to keep warm, and even to warm a plate - our help must be concrete, urgent and reinforced. it must be for the 18 million ukrainians who, according to the un, need urgent humanitarian assistance and the 10 million who need food aid. i reiterate my call to the cities and regions of europe to join the initiative launched by president metsola, generators of hope, to overcome the power cuts. in this time of war, when ukrainians are on the front lines to repel the russian invader, our only line of action is humanitarian aid to the ukrainian people and support for ukraine to defeat the enemy. this is the prerequisite for the future peace we all want.
mr president, commissioner, the house of lords, the house of commons, the house of commons, the house of commons, the house of commons, the house of lords, the house of commons, the house of commons, the house of lords, the house of lords. a video clip from a russian tv publicity program was posted on social media. it shows putin's propagandists imitating the sound of drones and missiles falling on ukraine, and laughing, giggling, rejoicing that people are suffering who they think are russians, who are not ukrainians at all. this is the best proof of what russian fascism is today, the russian need for domination. we were just talking about holodomor. stalin tried to destroy ukraine 90 years ago, killed 5 million people. this time, mr. putin, you will not succeed, because ukraine is fighting and has the solidarity of the entire civilized world. in this room one day will be ukrainian members of parliament, and you, mr. putin, will be where you belong - in the dustbin of history.
mr president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, russia’s military aggression against european ukraine is based on an attempt to create a critical humanitarian situation by cutting off access to energy, healthcare, food and other essential services and goods. the current russian leadership is using the genocidal crimes that were mastered long ago by imperial russia or the soviet authorities. russia’s bloody history is repeating itself again. the determination of the european union and its member states to assist and stand with ukraine and its people in solidarity must continue. colleagues, as this week the sakharov prize 2022 winner, oleksandra matviychuk, repeatedly asked for weapons, sanctions and justice. this is an essential condition for ukraine’s survival. let us not give up and let us continue helping our ukrainian brothers and sisters who are fighting for our common values. slava ukraini!
mr president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues! the courage and fighting spirit of the ukrainian people is a force for good. but this fervor is tested when the true winter chill hits, when windows are smashed by bomb blasts, when the elements are frozen by cutting power lines and bombing power plants, when there is no water coming from the tap, and when you are forced to spend the night in a basement, a subway station, or a shelter. a month ago i was in ukraine with some colleagues and saw this reality that the ukrainian people are facing, and my feeling is that we have to support the ukrainian people more. by protecting them with air defense against the missiles, by financial support. we have to stop buying fossil fuels from russia, which is financing the war. this has to happen now.
mr president, madam commissioner, it’s been 10 months – 10 months of this genocide. and poland from day one was a leader. over 7 million people crossed the polish-ukrainian border. can you imagine that? not even one person, madam commissioner, not even one family never found any other different place than a polish home. we don’t have camps for refugees in poland, because we are so open. but in europe we still have hypocrites who are making money with russia on diamonds. why is belgium selling diamonds? why is antwerp protesting to get diamonds into the embargo? why is there no embargo on diamonds? why do we hear from mr macron that we cannot isolate a leader like putin? why can we hear from mr schulz that after war we have to go back to the normal relations with putin? this is hypocrisy. and if this hypocrisy will not stop, putin will knock on berlin’s door, paris’ door and other doors in europe. but poland was first to react, and we are leaders. so be like poland.
mr president, dear colleagues, we have met with many friends of ukraine this week in strasbourg. they are all very brave people who leave their homeland and fight for their freedom every day. the people of ukraine are at the forefront of the western democracy. they are fighting our fight – let’s not forget that. russia aimed for a short and victorious war 10 months ago when they launched a full—scale attack against ukraine. they were totally wrong. war against the brave people of ukraine is not just a walk in the park. russia, after numerous failures, has chosen the tactics of destroying ukraine’s energy infrastructure. it is a modern day ‘scorched earth’ tactic because we all depend on energy so much. russia has destroyed ukrainian hospitals in cold blood for the start of the ongoing military campaign. we should not be surprised. remember grozny. remember aleppo. this house must do its utmost to convince our governments that ukraine needs more weapons and ukraine needs more support. we cannot afford to wait until the end of the war to start to rebuild ukraine. slava ukraini!
mr. chairman, please! as a result of russia's criminal aggression against ukraine, many thousands of citizens of that country have lost their lives or been injured. millions have been forced to leave their homes, often losing their livelihoods. in recent weeks, russia has been carrying out terrorist attacks on energy and transport infrastructure, with full awareness that with the onset of winter, the lives and health of millions of ukrainians are at risk. no country is prepared to respond quickly and effectively to a crisis of this scale. to prevent a tragedy, we must provide ukraine with even more aid than we have so far. it's about providing both financial and material support to help these people get through the next few difficult months. clothing, heating, warm clothing, durable food, medicines, sanitary products, and bandages are among the necessities of life. we must support the ukrainian health service by treating the wounded and sick. there is a risk of a rapid increase in the incidence of various diseases. let us remember that ukrainian children are particularly affected. let's try to imagine the trauma they're going through. it would be very good if the member states of the union agreed urgently on a programme to take in millions of young ukrainians for just a few weeks to forget the constant threat of bombing. today we are all taking a test of our humanity and our ability to resist criminal assault. evil cannot win.
a uachtaráin, the current humanitarian situation in ukraine is sobering. and as the winter sets in, the ukrainian people are preparing for the worst. the health system is facing its darkest days in the war so far. russia has been targeting the country’s infrastructure, leaving millions without electricity, heating or water. the attacks are relentless and temperatures are freezing. since the beginning of the war russia has indiscriminately attacked hospitals. already, more than 1 100 healthcare facilities have been damaged and 144 completely destroyed. this will have an impact on the health of ukrainians for years to come. there is no christmas or new year truce planned for ukraine. this will be an extremely tough winter. we must continue to support ukraine with generators and heating systems. in this regard, i would like to compliment my colleague andrzej halicki for his initiative in supplying generators to ukraine, and maybe as a collective of meps, we could fund more generators for ukraine in the new year. that would be wonderful. infrastructure, rehabilitation of schools and hospitals will be vital. our collective support for ukraine is crucial to ensure its recovery and reconstruction. slava ukraini!
mr president, ukraine saw its first snow this mid—november, just a couple of days after the new wave of missile attacks targeting energy infrastructure had left approximately 10 million people, our friends, without electricity and a warm place. as we speak, organisations are providing generators in coordination with the ukraine authorities to ensure electricity supply to critical facilities, hospitals, schools and then heating points for people to get together. however, this is not enough and we need to do more to win the war and to protect ukraine, their own land and their homes. winter conditions in ukraine, where the temperature can drop below 20 degrees, brings a new dimension to the humanitarian crisis in the country. as energy is weaponised, we have to stay firm. it is seen in our countries, too, with the unbearable prices homes sometimes need to pay. we need a resistance together with the ukrainians. we need to act on every level. and i don’t bear any populistic talks in this crisis. slava ukraini!
we are now coming to spontaneous word messages, and i may say briefly that it is a constant practice in this house that if someone misses his speaking time, i do not then join him in the back, but follow him in the process of spontaneous word messages. we have several cases today. i guess it's the weather this time. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is why we have introduced the spontaneous reporting procedure for some speakers. i would like to begin by thanking mrs von cramon-taubadel, to whom my remarks do not apply.
mr president, dear commissioner, horrible war crimes have been committed daily in the past ten months. we have heard accounts of deliberate and indiscriminate attacks against civilians, torture, illicit use of weapons and the use of illicit weapons. and now also massive attacks against critical civilian infrastructures, preventing even hospitals from working properly and putting civilians, even babies and kids under the threat of frost and cold. a strong and unequivocal international legal response to the aggression against ukraine, to this predatory and imperialist war unleashed by russia, permitting no place for impunity for serious violations, and emphasising the legal responsibility of the perpetrators is therefore of utmost importance. and i use the occasion to call once more on the union to update and integrate the decision of 2011 on icc with a strong position on the crime of aggression, as called by our resolution 2014, and to promote the reform of the rome statute aimed at aligning the icc jurisdiction on the crime of aggression with that already in place of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
mr. chairman, thank you for giving me the floor so quickly. the russian aggression against ukraine has entered a new phase. something familiar from the history of russian and soviet occupation and autocratic regimes. as of 1 january 2014, he was the deputy head of the security service of ukraine. but the purpose of this attack and the destruction of infrastructure will be to shock and distress millions of people and force an additional wave of migration. this is, of course, unacceptable, unacceptable and must be met with an increasingly serious and clear eu response. the sanctions must also be extended, and the ban on the purchase of minerals and other minerals from russia must be lifted, so that this latest russian aggression against the ukrainian people and against civilians is not financed.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the european union is determined to support ukraine and its people. this is clear following our exchange today. in order to provide effective support, we need to first tackle rising winter needs across the country. the commission is already taking concrete steps to strengthen its assistance to ukraine this winter. we are investing in additional eu generated stockpiles as part of our resceu reserve. as i speak, the commission is finalising a grant agreement with poland for the procurement of new generators. as announced by president von der leyen in paris on tuesday, we have a new energy hub available in poland. this can be a central hub for international donations and can channel aid from third countries all the way to ukraine. at the same time, our emergency response coordination centre continues to coordinate in-kind from 35 european countries. the european commission counts on the european parliament to support these efforts. honourable members, thank you for hosting this debate.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.18 a.m.)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, the epp group requests a point of order on the basis of rule 200(4) of the ep rules of procedure on the adjournment of a vote. in light of the ongoing criminal investigations into a corrupt network of individual members, former members and assistants in the european parliament, the epp group is extremely concerned about the integrity of the foreign policy positions of the european parliament as expressed in the urgency resolutions. we simply cannot continue with business as usual before we can establish with certainty that the integrity of the procedure and the network does not remain compromised by third countries like qatar. we should stop all work on urgency resolutions. we must take bold and radical decisions to stop the damage of this corrupt network from spreading further into our parliamentary work. this is why, madam president, on behalf of the epp group, i request that all the three votes of urgency resolutions are adjourned.
madam president, colleagues, the epp published a press release yesterday that has now been read to the parliament twice, once by ms zovko last night, and just now. in this statement, and i quote, they question ‘the integrity of the foreign policy positions of the ep, as expressed in the urgency resolutions’. this casts a very dark shadow of suspicion and insinuation over the complete human rights work of this parliament. and unfortunately they do so without the slightest indication that there is any reason to do it. they just take the corruption scandal that we have to fight against as an excuse for trying to kill the urgencies that they wanted to kill anyway. rule 144(2) of our rules of procedure states, and i quote, ‘[t]he conference of presidents shall draw up a list of subjects to be included in the final draft agenda for the next debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law on the basis of the request referred to in paragraph 1 and in accordance with the provisions of annex iv. the total number of subjects included in the agenda shall not exceed three, including sub—chapters.’ on this basis, i request that the president ensures that the work of this parliament on human rights that is founded in this paragraph of rule 144 shall not be obstructed by the epp, who call for a stop of all the work.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, we take note that the chamber has rejected our request. for this reason, allow me to explain the position of the epp group. the epp group has tried hard to persuade other groups to include in this week’s resolution on corruption a need to define the scope of urgency resolutions better in order to ensure proper scrutiny of a third-party influence. but incredibly, this was not accepted. a majority composed of the left-wing groups in this house did not even accept a single reference to the urgent need for transparency and financing of ngos, when we all know that the ngos were involved with the scandal.
i’m sorry, i don’t want to open the debate on this issue.
on behalf of the ppe group. – the last sentence is very important. for this reason, the epp group has decided that until the integrity of this procedure is restored, it will not take part in any preparation, any negotiation, any co-signing and any debate, and will not take part in the plenary votes on the urgency resolutions.
we take note.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at the opening of the debate on monday, a word was heard in this house, a word spoken by all of us, unity, to better react to an unprecedented scandal. i am sorry to see that some people are still victims of their own short-sighted political arrogance. i therefore propose, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, an oral amendment to paragraph 3 which should read as follows: '3. stresses that the gravity and scope of the ongoing investigations require parliament and the eu institutions to react with unambiguous unity and firm determination; reaffirms that its idea of unequivocal unity does not include all political groups, that is to say the representatives of millions of european citizens;' i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that this house is just another proof of the hypocrisy and the meanness of some in this parliament who feel that they are morally superior by right even now when the recent serious events have blatantly denied them.
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 12.30)
the minutes of yesterday’s sitting and the texts adopted are available. are there any comments? as this is not the case, the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on the major interpellation to the commission by nicolaus fest, bernhard zimniok, gunnar beck, markus buchheit and gerolf annemans, on behalf of the id group, on attacks on critical energy infrastructure (g-001001/2022).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, our society relies heavily on both physical and digital critical infrastructure. the interruption of essential services, whether through direct physical attack or cyberattack, can have serious consequences for both citizens and economies. given the current geopolitical and security situation in europe, we need to ensure that our critical infrastructure, be it pipelines, transport or undersea cables, is secure and resilient. russia’s war of aggression against ukraine has intensified a broad spectrum of threats, often combined in hybrid attacks. some of these target critical infrastructure in europe. we take very seriously the sabotage of the nord stream gas pipelines. the commission is closely and continuously monitoring its consequences. member states have the primary responsibility for security of infrastructure. the investigation of damage, causes and perpetrators of these attacks is ongoing under the responsibility of the national authorities. we are in close contact with them since the beginning. the parliament called on us to make the protection of critical infrastructure a priority. soon after the attacks, president von der leyen presented in this chamber a five—point plan on critical infrastructure. on 18 october, the commission adopted a proposal for a recommendation. not even two months later we already have tangible results. last week, the council recommendation on a union—wide coordinated approach to strengthen the resilience of critical infrastructure was adopted. it will give better support to member states in enhancing the cybersecurity and the physical resilience of critical infrastructure. the recommendation focuses on the energy sector and also covers digital infrastructure, transport, transport and space. we also invite member states to start to implement the two recently adopted directives on the resilience of the critical entities and on measures for a high common level of cybersecurity across the union already now. we cannot afford to waste time. as a priority, we have asked member states to carry out stress tests on critical infrastructure. the commission has agreed with member states on common criteria for conducting stress tests, starting with the energy sector as a priority. a blueprint on critical infrastructure incidents and crises will set out the cooperation structure in case of an incident so that the collaboration between the member states and the eu institutions, bodies and agencies is ensured.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. critical infrastructure in europe is increasingly only conceivable and usable across borders. it is therefore good that we have just heard the european commission explain how we can better protect critical infrastructure together, including not only energy transmission networks, and therefore, of course, we must also ask the question, if damage has occurred, who caused this damage, and secondly, how we can prevent such damage in the future. in this respect, the request today actually reflects the fact that we are all concerned, of course, that we are jointly responsible for the infrastructures that lie between our countries and that they need special protection, especially when they lie between countries at greater depths. i therefore believe that it is right that the member states and the neighbouring countries, all of which are in nato, have agreed together to ensure a higher level of protection here. i do not think so, however, as the honourable member said: the european union has not usurped power, but it is simply and poignantly true that the member states have the same responsibilities for internal security as the member states themselves. the same applies to military and security matters, including those concerning the intelligence services. but it is also true that there is a general responsibility for transmission in critical infrastructures, in the interests of the citizens and the internal market, and this is the case with gas. however, other transmission pathways could also be considered, such as oil or telecommunications transmission pathways. in this respect, there is certainly an interaction between critical infrastructure, which must be controlled and protected by the member states on the one hand and, if necessary, also jointly. you have rightly pointed this out, and we are on the right track. it's got to get better. secondly, there is of course a use effect for the companies operating in the internal market. this gives rise to the commission's task of ensuring that these services can operate across borders. we in the epp group pointed out a few weeks ago that we need a single internal energy market in europe, which is also subject to full harmonisation, when we find that cooperation and the extension of interconnectors are not yet proceeding as quickly and as well as we would like, just at the frontiers, in order to make the whole of europe energy resilient, that is, prepared for emergencies. the same applies, of course, to telecommunications networks, because here too - we saw it at the beginning in ukraine - we are particularly strong when we have many links with neighbouring countries, because we can thus compensate much better for possible local failures. i am very grateful to you for your comments, commissioner.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. putin has been attacking the european union for years. he's turning the gas cocks. he's blackmailing us with power supplies. that's why we never do business as usual with russia. the kremlin's dark dream is an energy-independent europe, a europe based on renewable energy sources, a self-sufficient europe that does not need one cubic metre of gas and one tonne of imported coal. the european commission and the silesian government have shown that this objective is soon to be attainable. they got along despite the spelling diversion. there are eu programmes for the energy transition: 5 billion euros. but beyond that, we need to create a common energy fund directly for the people of europe, so that we don't repeat the mistakes of the cohesion fund and the just transition fund, which are dependent on illegitimate governments. this is the 21st century. europeans have the right to heat their homes without worrying about bills and the availability of raw materials. they have a right to clean air. we as a union will achieve this goal against putin and against the autocrats.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! let me give you a historical retrospective: lenin once used the term "polish idiots". in the 1970s, the term "useful idiots" was often used to refer to those who in the west pursued policies that favored the russian communist brezhnev. i'm sorry, but sometimes when i listen to some representatives of the european parliament, of course i don't want to take this as a direct personal attack, but sometimes i get the impression that there really is no shortage of these 'polish idiots'. talking about it being maybe poland, ukraine, maybe the united states. to quote a tweet from a man who has already tweeted such nonsense that his hands are falling. building around this inscription theories that it was not russia behind this attack, but maybe someone else, asking such questions for me, this is my opinion, i get the impression that as i said, these useful idiots are really not lacking. what are the facts? as cybersecurity experts point out, the attacks did not begin when the war in ukraine began. cyberspace, as well as critical infrastructure, has been the target of russian attacks for many years. security analysts have shown that as the international coalition supporting ukraine has been formed, russia has stepped up its attacks on pro-ukrainian states. there were 128 hacking attempts in 42 countries, 29 of them successful. that's the facts.
