the programme of activities of the french presidency of the council of the european union (eu), entitled recovery, strength and a sense of belonging, expresses a commitment to economic recovery, enabling the successful ecological and digital transitions, the defence and promotion of european values and interests and the importance of building and developing a common european vision. as regards the tourism sector, it stresses the need to recover and strengthen its resilience to future crises. it also has as an objective the defence of the outermost regions and of article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which allows european standards to be adapted to these regions and ensures that their characteristics and constraints, as well as their full potential, are respected. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism. to achieve this ambition, the outermost regions, given their economic dependence on the tourism sector, must be integrated into this vision and the priorities for action.
mr president, the regulation of digital services is a matter of urgency. every day, users around the world turn to digital platforms where they interact and trust personal information. if there is no regulation, it is the big corporations that continue to set the rules and put profits ahead of data protection and rights. this is already the case today, with the use of increasingly sophisticated techniques of profiling and collecting personal data. that is why any regulation must be serious and this has been half-way on essential issues. the main one is targeted advertising. in 2020 alone, google made $147 billion and facebook made $84 billion in advertising, thanks largely to developing tools that allow them to identify their target consumers, which they use to increase their profits. this proposal could and should have gone much further. increasing transparency is not enough. mechanisms need to be put in place to eliminate targeted advertising and all that is associated with it. the way this proposal is coming along is to support a business model that is incompatible with human rights. in addition, we should also have implemented limitations on the protection of freedom of the press and freedom of expression and also on the protection of the cultural and creative sectors. freedom of the press and access to culture are key dimensions of any democracy. our rights and freedoms cannot be for sale.
mr president, there are many good things in this digital services act, but it still leaves too much leverage to governments that fear the freedom of expression and cannot refrain from censorship. do i need to remind you that pablo hasel, a singer, is in prison for his lyrics? or about the spanish obsession to imprison josé arenas valtonyc, who dared to sing that the bourbons are thieves? spanish freedom of expression is different indeed. when it comes to online content, spain is addicted to censorship. they block hundreds of websites promoting the catalan referendum, they force the removal of apps that were used by activists, and they go as far as blocking the website of women on web, an organisation that counsels about abortion. yes, freedom of expression is endangered in the eu, and this act does not go far enough to protect it.
mr president, madam executive vice-president of the european commission, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs schaldemose, and also the alternative rapporteur of my group, the epp, arba kokalari, on the great work they have done, and likewise the other rapporteurs involved on their spirit of cooperation: i would like to highlight the great work of consensus that has been achieved between all the groups. i am glad that the european commission has put forward the proposal for a digital services law, which is certainly a step in the right direction: this proposal was very necessary to adapt european legislation to the new digital reality. i think it comes out of this parliament strengthened and well-positioned for the tripartite dialogues, especially since we have already discussed the various sensitivities of the different political groups represented in this house and have reached a great deal of consensus. this act is a regulation designed to create a safer online environment, while promoting innovation in the digital domain in the european union. the proposal updates the 2000 e-commerce directive: over the past 20 years, the world has changed radically with the emergence of new digital services. legislative adaptation was and is therefore urgently needed to address these new challenges. no one questions the advances these services have brought to our societies; however, there is also a growing need for increased online security. the new obligations that this digital services act establishes go precisely in this direction: we want to protect our citizens and companies from the abuses of the internet giants. to this end, the measures provided for in this act are based on a fundamental principle, 'what is illegal offline must also be illegal online', a principle that is applied through transparency rules. all this is key to the fight against impunity that currently exists on the internet and that affects our most vulnerable citizens and companies, especially minors and our smes. i would also like to stress that we have been particularly careful about the type of obligations imposed on smes, since, because of their limited resources, some of them would not be able to meet them: it is a question of simplifying their lives, not of adding bureaucratic and administrative procedures. we will have to continue working to complete this legislation, which is only a first step: with this law we lay the foundations of what security in the digital environment should be, but there are still many challenges to be addressed. it is a comprehensive and transversal legislation with which we are laying down the foundations of digital regulation in the european union, that is, it sets out basic rules for all digital content, products, services and activities based on a principle of horizontality. we certainly need further initiatives to address the specific challenges and complete robust legislation in line with our european values: this week we will adopt parliament's position on this act, and i encourage the negotiations in the tripartite dialogue to continue in the spirit of cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, the legislation on the digital giants is an essential subject and the dsa we are studying today is undoubtedly a step forward for europe. unfortunately, despite our many warnings, you were slow to implement it. you have allowed for decades, in the name of the free market, the american giants to totally occupy our societies and our lives. and you're taking measures against them today that would have been more useful if we were twenty or thirty years behind. because today the 20 biggest tech companies are outside europe and you are responsible for that. these american giants dominate us, they crush us and replacement becomes a necessity. so our goal is to find balance and independence. if we want to win the war against the fatf, if we want to guarantee the security of europeans' data, if we want to protect their privacy, if we want to develop the potential of our own companies and ensure the european union's digital sovereignty, we can no longer apply your ideological logic of openness and free competition. i have tried to express this to you in the more than 200 amendments i have tabled, because we have an absolute duty to give priority to and encourage the development of our own european companies, to the detriment of foreign companies. to do that, the digital giants must comply with their legal, tax and regulatory obligations and we must stop, you must stop, all complacency towards gafam and other batx. commissioner breton, you have opened the way by promising that european data will be hosted only within the european union. but you have broken your word and disappointed the expectations of tens of millions of european users. so it is time for you to put words into action and for the digital challenge, the digital sovereignty that emmanuel macron mentioned this morning, to be neither a slogan nor just another communication operation, but a real political objective.
mr president, digitisation processes and digital services have great potential for development in various spheres of human activity, including the economy. but reality has already shown that this means has served to increase the exploitation of workers or the phenomena of alienation and social and behavioural conditioning of individuals in favour of profits and the dominance of large companies and multinationals. the legislative act on digital services which we are discussing here today is nothing more than a step in the further development of the digital single market, or, in other words, in the defence of the liberalisation of the digital market. the approach to regulating online platforms, which promote monopolies and strengthen the market power of multinational companies, which the digital single market serves, does not answer fundamental questions and does not compromise the interests of the digital giant. with this regulation, the european union develops another piece of supranational legislation that aims to remove the power of member states to control the digital platforms operating on their territory. the proposal is not aimed at defending the general interest of the public domain of the sector, nor at promoting free access by the public to content, access to the creation, enjoyment and free sharing of culture, rejecting the logic of commodification of culture, of attacking multilingualism or of reinforcing a greater cultural colonization. the creation and proliferation of a number of so-called independent entities is intended to remove the role of the states and their national authorities, without any desire to guarantee the independence of these entities from the major economic interests. the member states already have bodies with competence, for example, for administrative and judicial assessment of illegal content, the scope of which should be extended to the digital level, keeping the process within the sphere of the sovereignty of the states.
author. mr president, by imposing the national security law in hong kong, beijing has definitively broken with the concept of 'one country, two systems' and started a cycle of violence and repression that has resulted in over 150 arrests to date. in his need to show strength in front of the crown princes of the chinese communist party, xi jinping looks no further. the mere exercise of freedom of expression has led to the arbitrary detention of numerous activists, including kok tsz lun, a young portuguese-chinese man who was sentenced to seven months in prison in china and is now facing a new trial in hong kong, scheduled for tomorrow, 20 january. the crushing of press freedom has advanced at an overwhelming rate over the past year and a half. the apple daily, the stand news, did not resist the arrest of their leading figures and now the citizen news has also ended up closing to safeguard its staff, in the face of the pressures of a brutal regime that moves on a logic of extermination of any pro-democratic thought. this is a trend that extends to macau, where 15 pro-democracy candidates were barred from running in the 2021 legislative elections. six tdm journalists, faced with the so-called china patriotic love directive, resigned in defense of freedom of information, and the vigil in memory of the tiananmen victims, celebrated over 20 years in macau, was declared illegal in 2021, with retroactive effects. get out of here! more than words, solidarity not only with hong kong but also with macau, xinjiang and tibet requires practical action, the refusal of extradition to china and hong kong and a human rights-honoring olympic performance.
mr president, china’s totalitarian regime has absolutely no love for media freedom, democracy or even for its own citizens, from hong kong to xinjiang. i fully stand with hong kong’s brave citizens, activists and journalists still courageously fighting to uphold press freedom. colleagues, the big picture is crystal clear, and i thank the colleagues who worked on this good resolution. the harsh reality is that china today is openly advocating against human rights and democratic values. in hong kong, china is illegally stamping out the remains of democracy. in xinjiang, china is arguably committing the biggest human rights violation of our time. all over the world, the long arm of beijing is pursuing dissidents like uyghur activist idris hasan, detained abroad with abuse of interpol. china even has the audacity to coerce our own member states. none of this can be tolerated. i therefore call on you, commissioner, all member states and institutions to commit to the diplomatic boycott of the beijing olympics. today, we have nothing to celebrate with china.
mr president, in recent years, the situation in hong kong went from complete neglect of the joint declaration as an international agreement to systematic dismantling of the well—functioning democratic system. strong dominance of the communist party of china led to growing political persecution of opponents and systematic disablement of the democratic structures. china’s policy of unilaterally imposing, unscrupulously enforcing, and doctrinising the so—called ‘main principle’ is really disturbing. in this regard, the european union must take immediate and firm actions to prevent ongoing china’s coercive policy against lithuania and international companies. it’s time for the european union to react and act in witness of the unprecedented coercive policies of communist china.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, china is violating the basic law of hong kong. however, in the 1984 sino-british joint declaration, it had committed itself to the 'one country, two systems' principle which is at the heart of this fundamental law. so what do we find? hong kong's autonomy is being trampled. a 2020 national security law organizes the crackdown. freedom of expression is suspended, dozens of opposition figures and journalists are imprisoned, and the 19 december 2021 legislative council elections were a travesty of democracy. so china is not living up to its commitments. it also does not respect the member states of the european union, since it treats lithuania in an unworthy manner, refusing its products entry to the chinese market in breach of international trade rules. she blames him for opening a taiwanese diplomatic mission in vilnius. this offensive is not a coincidence. it is meant to test the strength of our democratic model. china thinks its re-imagined communist dictatorship is a superior system to our old democracies and it challenges us to resist it. if the european parliament is to prove worthy of the values it claims to embody, it must roll up its sleeve and fight back. hong kong and lithuania deserve our solidarity in more than words. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the immediate release of all political prisoners.
mr president, i would like to thank you. china must guarantee that all journalists in hong kong can work freely without risking reprisals. freedom of the press and media must be guaranteed. freedom of speech, association and press are now as restricted in hong kong as they are in china. the national security law must be immediately repealed as it violates china's commitments and obligations under international law. all political prisoners in hong kong must be released. at the same time, china will also, of course, release our swedish bookseller gui minhai. i call on the council to immediately impose targeted sanctions on hong kong and chinese officials responsible for the ongoing human rights violations we are witnessing. the european parliament has previously confirmed that china's appalling treatment of the uighurs can be classified as a crime against humanity. the european parliament will not under any circumstances review or ratify the eu-china investment agreement as long as these violations continue.
member of the commission. – mr president, the elimination of political pluralism, the prosecution of the opposition, the shrinking space for civil society and the shutdown of independent media took place in hong kong in 2021. let’s be clear, we are witnessing a deterioration of the situation in hong kong. the legislative council election on 19 december was the first election since the national security law and the implementation of sweeping changes in the hong kong electoral system. ahead of the elections, the package of changes introduced to the electoral system and the mass arrest of opposition figures undermined hong kong’s democratic principles and high degree of autonomy. today, with beijing loyalists taking 89 out of 90 seats in the chamber, legislative proposals – however draconian – would meet minimum resistance, if any. the elections were followed by the publication by the state council in beijing of a white paper on hong kong’s democratic progress. this narrative, where a successful democratic system would require the purging of the opposition camp and the vetting of candidates ahead of elections, should be strongly refuted. in parallel, the national security law has been used to stifle political pluralism and the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms that are protected under hong kong law and international law. stand news closed in december after its former editors—in—chief were arrested for publicising seditious materials. a few days later, citizen news announced the suspension of its operations for fear that journalists could be accused of violating laws. prior to that, the closure of the apple daily gave the overall direction. china claims that what is happening in hong kong is an internal matter. we reject this. the eu has strong stakes and interests in hong kong. the upcoming eu annual report on hong kong will reflect the challenges facing the people of hong kong in exercising their fundamental rights and freedoms, as guaranteed by the hong kong basic law. what is happening constitutes a breach of china’s international commitments, in particular, of the sino—british joint declaration, which was registered with the un as an international treaty and which stated, 25 years ago, that the ‘one country, two systems’ should remain for a period of 50 years from 1997. these actions contradict china’s international commitments. the eu will continue to stand by the people of hong kong.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 20 january 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the resolution on hong kong adopted by parliament is part of the us strategy of interference and confrontation against the people's republic of china, to which the ep subscribes. the resolution uses and distorts the facts of hong kong and calls into question the sovereign powers of the people's republic of china over its territory, of which the special administrative regions of hong kong and macau have been part since 1997 and 1999 respectively, liberating themselves from a past of colonial occupation. we reiterate that the eu and its member states must refrain from promoting or associating with policies aimed at confrontation, interference, destabilisation and aggression against countries and peoples, in particular the people's republic of china and the chinese people, and that their relations with china must be based on respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law, including respect for the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the people's republic of china. we also reaffirm our support for the constitution of the portuguese republic and its rejection of interference in the internal affairs of states. the ppe meps therefore voted against.
mr president, in a country like kazakhstan, which has been living under a muzzle for three decades, with its freedoms curtailed, dominated by a kleptocratic and corrupt regime that is perpetuated and marked by deep inequality, it was inevitable that the popular uprising would eventually take to the streets, as had already happened in 2011. let's be clear, this is not new and it was predictable. the disproportionate use of force against peaceful protesters and the real motives behind the development of events cannot, once again, go unchallenged without an independent international inquiry, which should be led by the oeec within the framework of the moscow mechanism. this is what the families of the victims of these incidents are asking us for, not pitying statements and condolences. they are asking us for a clear investigation into what happened and they are asking us that those who were arrested do not have the same thing happen to them as happened to vladimir kozlov in 2011, who spent several years in prison and several years under torture and inhuman and degrading treatment.
the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. corruption, utterly disproportionate violence, torture and the degradation of basic freedoms are all well documented realities. if that were not enough, recent events have further highlighted the climate of repression in the country, the contempt for the most elementary rights and for human life itself. we therefore call for an independent international inquiry into the latest events in kazakhstan, where the people are legitimately fighting the reality of oppression in the country.
the european parliament should urgently decide on the accession of the european union to the convention on the management of north pacific fisheries, a very important international fisheries organisation. however, there was no place for that report on the agenda of this plenary, and for the promotion of abortion, there is always a place, at every plenary, right? and now i could explain how the genetic structure of the fetus is significantly different from the genetic structure of the mother, how it's a completely different organism, 50% of the time a different sex, and you won't want to hear it, you'll talk about it, you'll repeat your narrative, that it's one organism. and you have that right. but this debate in the european parliament is completely pointless. if you want to discuss this, run for national parliaments because this interference falls under national parliaments. and speaking of these issues, there are many things that we can do together to, for example, help women to better balance their personal, family and professional lives. let's make society fairer together, let's protect those women who get fired when they get married or when they get pregnant. so let's address these issues, this work, this agenda that we have in common and that we can be effective in. so do not burden the european parliament with imposing your world views. that is not the purpose or the meaning of the european parliament.
madam president, access to sexual and reproductive rights, which includes the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy, is a decades-long struggle of women. in practice, this defence and its implementation are at odds with the guidelines and policies of the european union which have promoted and are promoting the financial strangulation of public services in some member states, particularly in the health sector, contributing to the closure of maternity hospitals and health centres, to the dismissal of health professionals needed to ensure the effective implementation of these women's rights. it is useless to defend the right to health and sexual and reproductive rights if there are no public services to provide such high quality and free care, if there is no focus on prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases or on family planning services, if there is no free access to contraceptives, if the implementation of sex education fails or if the rights of lgbti people are not respected. despite the progress made in some countries in this area, the struggle will contribute to the progress women aspire to and we will stand by them.
mr president, i congratulate you on your re-election and wish you a successful mandate. your wise leadership is always a joy to us. fellow citizens, would you like to help young people fit in after the pandemic? it's very simple, don't interfere, don't help them. every intervention of yours, every attempt at some new administrative legislation is getting in the way. let the young people develop, let there be free competition. stop imposing on them your idea of some exceptions, your own, that you think are very useful, stop distorting the idea of free markets, stop pushing your idea that there are some persistent minority issues that you have to defend, and let the young people, the best for them, do that. what you can do is stay out of it. mrs. yurova, you are the vice president of the commission. i'm sure you'll find a real job that's useful, not a subject that's not in your portfolio. for example, try the rights of macedonian bulgarians, that would be a useful topic. fellas, to help the young, just don't get in their way, it's so simple and easy.
mr president, young people cannot be a rhetorical device. their problems and aspirations should not be used as mere propaganda tools. the obstacles to education, the lack of access to decent and affordable housing, unemployment, precarious employment, the lack of regulation of working hours, low wages, unpaid internships or so-called training grants that persist over time are all part of the reality of too young people. these problems are not unrelated to the neoliberal policies imposed on member states by the european institutions. and if the recipe holds, the results won't be any different. covid-19 has exposed this reality and made the situation for young people worse. the right to sport, to culture, to leisure, has not only been delayed, it has actually been called into question by rules which have not taken into account the importance of these activities for the physical and mental health of young people. in portugal, thousands were made redundant under the experimental period, many saw their wages cut, their rights threatened, their working hours deregulated. the precariousness of employment is spreading faster than a virus and young people are wondering whether they can dream of the future or whether they have to simply endure the present, sacrificing their youth. with or without the year of youth, young people know they can count on us to make their dreams come true. we're where we've always been, by your side every day.
mr president, young people have been severely impacted by the pandemic and they continue to be so. we have heard this during this debate so far from many colleagues. more than ever, the uncertainty of this context makes young people worried about their future and we have the responsibility not to leave them behind. we must ensure that we address their concerns, such as mental health, unemployment and social inequality, and that we keep fighting climate change and care about the planet. this year, the european year of youth must represent our joint efforts to strengthen existing mechanisms and initiatives, but also to create additional programmes targeted at promoting well-paid and quality jobs. young people are not only the present, they are the future of our union, and it is our duty to make sure that they can live in a europe of opportunities and economic growth. they are listening to us today and we cannot fail them.
madam president, president lagarde, commissioner gentiloni, twenty years after the creation of the euro, one of the most remarkable instruments of european integration, as has been well remembered today, let us finally complete this single monetary area with a european budget of stability, along the lines of nextgeneu, as has also been mentioned today. may the lessons of the covid crisis allow us not to go back to the times of no monetary policy and pro-cyclical and recessive fiscal policy in times of crisis. the latest data show that euro area inflation is largely a temporary phenomenon: energy prices and supply chain failures, as the ecb has repeatedly pointed out. we do not have the structural inflation of the united states of america, as the ecb has also shown us. so, faced with the return of fiscal rules which is causing and will cause for some months significant uncertainty, europe needs a responsible monetary policy which supports price stability but also credit, investment and economic recovery across europe.
for the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the report by the committee on agriculture on the welfare of farmed animals recognises the progress made by farmers, but also points out the need for further changes and improvements. the committee on agriculture requests the commission to present a revision of the legislation by the end of 2023. this shall be preceded by an impact study based on the latest knowledge, taking into account all options and impacts of the transition to alternative farming methods. the agri report incorporated most of what is required by citizens and animal welfare organisations to improve animal husbandry. in particular, like them, the agri committee is calling for an eu-wide ban on cage-based laying hens after 2027. we believe that the only way to achieve better livestock conditions is to work with farmers and make incremental changes. condition number one is their financial support. the agri committee also stresses the second condition, namely reciprocity for imports from third countries. the house is therefore adamant that livestock or animal products which do not meet european standards should be banned. by doing so, we will prevent our european farmers from being disadvantaged and help to push these changes beyond the eu. i think it is important to have a common framework for voluntary labelling that is an incentive for farmers and consumers. colleagues, farmers know very well that health is only one thing. they know that our health depends on the health of our livestock, and it is in their best interests to keep them in the best possible condition. farmers need our support, our trust and the knowledge that we value their work. that is why i am calling on all colleagues who are still hesitant about how to vote at this point: please support the resolution of the committee on agriculture, which is a big step forward for animal welfare and may be the parliament that will be debating new legislation in 2023. thank you, jérémy, for your cooperation and thank you to all those who have cooperated.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for his excellent work. as a farmer, the welfare of our farm animals is of particular concern to me. i support the call in the report for updated rules based on scientific evidence. the uniform application of these rules in all member states is also to be welcomed. i am afraid, however, that developments in germany will move faster than the preparation of these new rules at european level, commissioner. in germany, discount stores have announced that they will only market fresh meat from outdoor and premium-quality farming from 2030. the reductions in the price of milk from the dairy farms must be accepted. the number of farms with livestock has declined by 22 percent in the last ten years. animal populations are declining dramatically. this is also politically desirable and has not been visible since the new change of government in germany. but greater animal welfare always leads to greater investment in the farms. i wonder how this is to be financed without price increases at producer prices. at present there is no sign from the leh and the discount stores that these additional costs will be offset by higher purchase prices. this puts additional pressure on german farmers. many lives are threatened, especially those of small family farms. i hope that we do not lose sight of the human welfare of farmers in the face of animal welfare.
madam president, commissioner, in political speeches animal welfare in the european union tends to be characterised as one of the best in the world. however, we must be careful when expressing this pride because in most cases, animals that are exploited by the intensive livestock sector do not have a dignified life, quite the opposite. in livestock farming, these animals are not free to express their natural instinct, they live trapped in cages and in the whole process, from breeding, transportation, to their death, they are treated as mere commodities. and the report we are voting on tomorrow should portray this - the deplorable living conditions we subject these animals to in livestock farming - and do so in a realistic, factual and scientifically based way. unfortunately, against the wishes of the greens, this report focuses on aspects such as competitiveness in the livestock sector and the economic consequences of investing in better animal welfare standards. yes, analysing these aspects is important, but it is not central to a report whose mandate is to analyse the shortcomings in the implementation of animal welfare legislation. and it is important to remember: this report is not about farmers, it is about the animals that are in charge of these farmers and how we have failed them in terms of protection and diligence. furthermore, and in an incomprehensible way, this report states that the production of foie gras respects animal welfare. it considers that the constant violations of european legislation are only sporadic cases, rejects the mandatory labelling of food products indicating animal welfare standards and, in an attempt to protect the economic interests of livestock farmers and contrary to science, does not recognize that a reduction in meat consumption and the number of animals per farm is urgent. for all this, ladies and gentlemen, and if we really care about these animals, i ask you to support tomorrow the alternative resolution of the committee on the environment, which portrays much more faithfully the problems in the implementation of animal welfare legislation and to support the amendments of the greens to ensure that the agriculture report is in the end less bad.
the committee on budgets madam president, taxation is on the agenda. there are few dimensions of a country's sovereignty that say as much about the relationship between state and citizens. what taxes do we pay? how much are we paying? how do we pay for it? and these are the first questions that come to mind when we look at ourselves. and when we look at our countries, we see others: what tax burden is fair for citizens? what level of taxation is appropriate to promote economic growth and the competitiveness of enterprises? how do we effectively combat tax fraud and evasion? if these questions are essential for citizens, the answers are essential for states. in an increasingly globalised, digitalised and integrated economy, the challenges facing tax policy are increasingly demanding and complex. and the union is a privileged platform for debate and cooperation between member states. but our union is faced with many different realities. while some countries are focusing on freeing up resources for citizens and businesses, others are burdening taxpayers with excessive tax burdens. often, those countries which burden their taxpayers are the most reluctant to introduce tax reforms and, indeed, to introduce genuine economic reforms which are conducive to growth and employment. in the matter of taxation, everyone's idea of the role of the state is clear. and the choice is this: either a giant state that feeds off the tax burden it imposes on its taxpayers, or a sufficient state that relies on the initiative of its citizens and the innovation of its companies. this report, which is the result of the remarkable work of our colleague markus ferber, comes at the right time, as we prepare to discuss and decide on major changes in corporate taxation following the international agreement reached at oecd level. and it starts from an obvious assumption: tax reforms have a significant impact on the economies of states. and what does that mean for us in our union? first, that when we talk about taxation, sovereign power lies with the member states and the union has limited legislative powers, concentrating more on a coordinating role. but this coordinating role is essential in the context of an open internal market. when tax policies are poorly coordinated, smes are the first victims, because they cannot afford to have legal or compliance departments as large as the complexity of 27 different systems requires. and poor coordination also opens the door to opportunities for fraud, tax evasion or aggressive tax planning. this context demonstrates the need for a commission committed to leading this cooperation. and in what areas? the commission has also been active in the field of taxation, in the harmonization of tax bases, in the fearless tackling of the debt bias in corporate finance, in the creation of a clear context for tax incentives for research and development, and in the launch of a panel for the evaluation and comparison of national tax policies to promote good practice. these are three clear examples of what we are asking the european commission to do. let us therefore move forward with confidence and commitment to the reforms that our states need and our taxpayers demand.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of thousands of citizens are awaiting the outcome of this report with great expectation: patients whose access to timely diagnosis and appropriate treatment is crucial to their survival, whether they are in strasbourg, brussels or madeira, an outermost region; fellow healthcare professionals who want to provide patients with the best possible care; researchers, who are waiting for better data to promote more and better studies and find the answers they need; families and carers who struggle every day to ensure the quality of life for their loved ones; the survivors, who want to go on with a normal life, without any economic or social constraint, guaranteed by the right to be forgotten; and finally, citizens, all citizens, from the oldest to the youngest, including their organizations, count on us, their representatives, to help improve and save lives. the aim of this report is that, by our vote and our action, we can prevent cancer from becoming a fatality. thank you to everyone who contributed to a robust report, especially the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, based on the best scientific evidence.
madam president, as has already been said, today is the international day of children with cancer and we therefore have a great responsibility to strengthen the european strategy to combat cancer, because the union that europeans want is a europe on which they can rely, especially in the most difficult times. a europe that finds solutions, a europe that solves problems. in the fight against cancer, we need to improve local responses, reduce inequalities and strengthen cooperation between member states. a europe that leaves no one behind must be a europe where patients have the right to access the best care available, regardless of the member state in which they reside. the recommendations made in this report are quite comprehensive and allow to correct some gaps in the strategy put forward by the european commission. the initial approach to paediatric and juvenile cancer was deficient, and so we sought to improve the document with proposals targeting the rare cancers that typically affect these age groups. we want to strengthen research in targeted medicine, improve palliative cancer care and facilitate access for children and young people to cross-border clinical trials. ladies and gentlemen, in a europe where health is a fundamental right, we have no time to lose.
madam president, commissioner, improving the outcome of the fight against cancer is within our reach and requires confidence and determination. trust in the advances in science that have allowed more and more patients to be treated successfully, leading to the cure and control of the disease. we therefore need to invest more in the scientific system. determination to extend the benefits of scientific progress to all europeans. to do this we need more europe in health policy, in effect making the european health union a reality. we need more europe in the fight against smoking, not giving in to the offensive of e-cigarettes, heated tobacco or new tobacco products which have only one objective: to perpetuate consumption among the young. we need to develop a monitoring system for the measures we propose which will allow us to make real progress. this report by the european parliament is a decisive contribution. i hope the commission will listen to the appeal of the citizens of europe.
in writing. other the 6th eu-africa summit ended with an ambitious joint declaration. as president ursula von der leyen said, now is 'the time to turn our common vision into reality'. it is true that, probably because of the pandemic, we have to make up for lost time little progress has been made with regard to what was decided at the abidjan summit in 2017 , on pain of trivializing the results of these summits. in addition to licensing that will allow africa to have the capacity to mass-produce covid-19 vaccines, infrastructure and environmental projects need to move forward quickly and without hesitation. this is not just any paternalistic position. it 's about stating the obvious . the eu is already the largest trading partner, the largest foreign investor and the largest development partner in africa. the next step is to build a genuine partnership that makes europe and africa two more united, more prosperous, more secure and therefore more relevant continents in this globalised world.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, after the presentation by the rapporteur, whom i warmly follow and welcome for the excellent work she has done, it is now appropriate, at a time of great challenge to multilateralism, international law and democracy, to focus on what is important to do so that these annual reports are not just a set of recommendations and that the european union fully plays its role in the promotion and protection of human rights at global level. this requires that our foreign policy action be anchored in the coherence of our values and that we be able to speak with one voice, without ambiguity or subterfuge, using all the foreign policy tools at our disposal, from the different funds to support programmes to trade agreements, whose human rights clauses we want and must demand to be applied. speaking with one voice also means establishing an unwavering line of action between the commission, the council and parliament. the persistent perception that parliament, the only body directly elected by the european citizens, lives in these matters in a monologue must end. the european union delegations, which are the leading elements of our foreign policy, must play an active role in defending human rights and democratic values where they are most needed. acting carries the risk of inconvenience, but not doing so only ensures irrelevance. the victims of impunity - journalists, activists, human rights defenders, migrants and refugees, indigenous peoples, victims of persecution on ethnic, religious, political and other grounds, which we have spoken about in this report year after year - are waiting for more than words to be acted upon, and this requires an effective and convergent policy and an efficient use of the mechanism of sanctions for human rights violations. yes, we need to adopt the rule of qualified majority decision-making in the council. we can't wait any longer.
mr president, corruption is a clear source of human rights violations and attacks on democracy which undermine the rule of law and institutions. as a global phenomenon, combating it must be a cross-cutting issue in all eu policies. there have already been many cases of corruption, spread over several countries with which the european union has links. i would like to mention the case of azerbaijan, where the aliyev family maintains a corrupt and kleptocratic regime with the approval of the european union, through some of its commissioners, such as two who recently visited azerbaijan. i would ask the commissioner to clarify what kind of dialogue was held between these two commissioners and mr aliyev. i would ask that this be clarified and that the mechanism for sanctions against corruption be adopted as soon as possible.
mr president, mr commissioner, we all had our favourite toys, much simpler than those we have today. like many other objects, toys are increasingly connected, which means that the children's room is connected to the world. so in order to avoid situations like kayla's doll, which allowed any stranger to get into her system and communicate with the children, we need to ensure that the next version of this directive, which i hope can be a regulation, includes rules for the cybersecurity of toys. and because toys are not only connected, but also dynamic, with artificial intelligence enabling them to interact with each other in a personalised way, it is essential to ensure their safety not only when they are placed on the market, but throughout their lifetime, which requires more data and greater cooperation between supervisory bodies. the next legislation should thus ensure to parents and children that play is not a high-risk activity but just a fun time.
mr. president, the threat of invasion of ukraine has brought back the dark days of the cold war, with people on both sides living in fear of a permanent threat. those are the times no one wants to go back to. well, almost no one, actually. mr putin and some of his cronies have been showing us how much they miss that time. by deploying a huge army to the border with ukraine to conduct the world's largest military exercises for over 40 years, the russian government wanted to send ukraine, europe and the world a message of intimidation and threat. on the part of the european union and our transatlantic partners, the message has been understood. we have learned to come together and respond to the circumstances. our language is not war, but we let mr putin know that war would not go unpunished. our message is not one of threat, but it's clear that we are not intimidated by russian action. our language is that of dialogue, it is that of international law. it is the language of diplomacy, with which tensions are resolved, conflicts are avoided and compromises and solutions are found. that is the path that this parliament and the european union itself are proposing to russia in a coherent manner to resolve the situation with realism, common sense and transparency and in full respect for the independence and territorial integrity of ukraine. the choice now rests with mr. putin. i want to believe that you will make the right choice for the good of ukraine, europe and russia itself.
madam president, the signs seem to be a decrease in tension on the russian-ukrainian border, but we cannot let our guard down. let 's not kid ourselves . peace is not a given, it is a permanent construct that we must take into our own hands. we have not turned our backs on the atlantic alliance, but we cannot have our security defined between washington and moscow. let's be bold if we want to be relevant. as long as the word is on the side of diplomacy, nothing is lost. but we must not lose sight of the fact that we can only be peacemakers if we are prepared to respond to the threat of war in solidarity. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. we cannot give up defending the values enshrined in the helsinki final act and the charter of paris.
mr president, young people who are students, young people who are workers, young people who are creative, young people who have the power to change things: young people need a different europe. a europe where they can assert their right to rights, their right to a better life. a europe where free, quality public education is a reality for all. where precariousness is eradicated and jobs with rights are created. where access to culture, sport, decent housing, leisure, health and sexual education, equal opportunities are not mirages or a roll of intentions. where they can choose to live in the country or the city, without this meaning additional discrimination. where concerns about climate change are not instrumentalised to make new business. a europe that does not fit into this european union, but one that is worth fighting for. and it is by young people and with young people that we will build a future of peace, cooperation, rights, prosperity and happiness for the youth who are also inspired in the fight for their dreams.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, as we have always said, respect for the fundamental values of the european union is an essential condition for sound and effective financial management of european funds. it couldn't be any different. we've done it over and over again. the cross-compliance instrument to protect the budget of the european union is in force as of 1 january 2021. should have applied right away, put it in the recovery fund. the commission has not followed the decisions of the european parliament, it has not proposed the necessary measures as requested by parliament in its resolution of 25 march to finalise by 1 june the guidelines for the application of the regulation. if the commission had any doubts, it is now clear, in black and white, from the decision of the court of justice of the european union. the commission can no longer use excuses, it must immediately apply the conditionality/rule of law mechanism in its role as guardian of the treaties, in its responsibilities for the sound management of the budget of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. well, climate change is one of the biggest challenges of our time, and global warming is the cause of world hunger, malnutrition, exposure to disease and lack of access to water. what should our priorities be for the new york session? when we look at these climate changes, we might say that in the european union, they affect women less than in other continents, but in the european union, women also face very serious problems. i will come back to this problem because i think there is a great deal of indifference to this issue in this house. well, still in the european union, little girls are being forced into marriage with grown men. ladies, focus on the real issues and support women regardless of their age, their status, their social standing, their religious beliefs. let's not forget the little girls who are being brutally raped.
mr president, in portugal and in the european union the devaluation of women's skills persists. women receive the lowest wages, pensions and pensions, work longer hours and suffer the most from precariousness, unemployment, income inequality, social insecurity and poverty. the deterioration of social status also has implications for emotional stability and is not disconnected from the increase in family and marital violence. in the field of equal participation, progress has been modest, showing that the great proclamations of principles and the great claims of equal rights are not reflected in the daily lives of women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected, including the right to equal pay, to equal pay for equal work, to equal value in the workplace, and to achieve a balance between work, family and personal life. it also means preventing and combating inequalities, discrimination and all forms of violence against women, as well as the challenges posed by climate change. we are continuing to fight for very concrete answers to these and other crucial questions.
mr president, commissioner, there is not a single country in the world that has achieved gender equality. it is estimated that 70% of the world's poorest people are women, that two out of every three people who cannot read or write are women, and that although more than 40% of agricultural workers are women, they own less than 20% of the land. these are the reasons for this discussion we are having here today. these inequalities that make women more vulnerable to climate change and how they are more vulnerable, usually and unfortunately, in any crisis. we therefore need to have more gender-disaggregated data, to ensure that women are present at the decision-making tables and, above all, to ensure that all climate policies, at european and international level, take into account their impact on women.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the drought in portugal and spain is becoming extremely severe. we are getting closer and closer to a situation similar to the worst drought we have ever seen in portugal, which occurred in 2005. it is 17 years since there have been so many areas of portugal in serious drought at this time of year, which is causing enormous damage to various sectors of our economy, to the environment, such as tourism, and particularly to agriculture. as for the latter, commissioner, farmers are in despair and many are already thinking of quitting. they see the fall-winter crops practically lost. in portugal, the dams are at very low levels for this time of year because it has hardly rained. the situation in many regions of spain is also dramatic, with cuts in supply and limitations on water consumption, especially in extremadura, andalusia, murcia and castilla la mancha. this problem is compounded by the increase in production costs that farmers have suffered in the last year. drought, staff reduction and abandonment are terrible and will lead to another problem which is the anticipation of fire season, unfortunately. and it is for all these reasons, listening to the commissioner and calling for the joint efforts of the governments of the member states and the commission, that i welcome, but i welcome, commissioner, not only the structural question. it is indeed a structural issue, a matter of planning ahead, that is true, but it is also true that we are at a critical moment. in this short term it was important for the commission to launch financial support measures, but outside the common agricultural policy, because these are already support which, by right, belongs to the farmers. that there should be a reduction in taxes on electricity and fuel for farmers. in the long term, it is essential to promote a strategy for countries, particularly those in southern europe, which are plagued by drought, and which aims to increase the abstraction, retention and storage of surface water. for example, in portugal, only 20% of all the water inflows we have are able to be stored. it is, in fact, very little. so we have a lot of room to grow. and let me also make a request for my country: the commission should encourage the portuguese government to create special specific support for these most affected regions, not forgetting immediate cash issues to avoid abandonment of the activity itself; to initiate a crisis measure to support the purchase of compound feed due to the lack of pastures; to facilitate access to water for the watering of livestock and to crop survival rules through support for water storage; a credit line for the construction of new pits and ponds; temporary exemption from social security payments, in particular the single social tax; to effectively implement the legislation on green electricity, a support of at least 30% of the bill, and to revise the seasonal electricity contracts for agriculture. commissioner, let us help the farmers, because agriculture is life.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, madam commissioner, the extreme drought that is hitting spain and portugal in the middle of winter is now added to the long list of annual natural disasters, which are becoming more numerous and more intense. today, in the face of this drought in these two countries, farmers and national and regional authorities are at the forefront, and i would like to reiterate to them, on behalf of our group and our regi committee, our utmost solidarity. we will do everything we can to help and, of course, we ask - as you have said, madam commissioner - for the european solidarity fund to be mobilised as soon as possible and for emergency aid to be provided where it may be needed. more broadly, the earth, humanity and the world of life have entered a turbulent zone today, from which there is no escape for tomorrow: 50 °c in north america this summer, forest fires now hitting the far north, the earth that has literally collapsed under the feet of the inhabitants of erftstadt. we will go, with the regi commission, next week to this place in germany. this is the new deal that we have. as chair of the regi committee, i put a proposal on the table: the creation of a new fund, the regional climate change adaptation fund, which is based on a mapping of risks and needs, and on national climate change adaptation plans. the fund aims to help regions invest in infrastructure that is more resilient to the effects of natural disasters. today, all our efforts are directed towards mitigating and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. of course you have to do it; but we also need to address the lack of a genuine european strategy for adapting to climate change, which is already underway and has become irreversible, given the inertia of the climate model. it is our responsibility to prepare all european regions to adapt their development strategy and investment plans to this new situation, which, as you know, will disrupt all sectors and which requires billions of euros of investment in all areas. president von der leyen has committed herself - and i conclude, mr president - to exercising parliament's right of initiative. that is what we are doing with this proposal. take the plunge from the regi committee and present a proposal to the european parliament for the creation of this new regional fund for adaptation to climate change.
member of the commission. – mr president, as the interventions from most political groups have highlighted, we urgently need to make our food systems sustainable and resilient. extreme weather phenomena, such as this drought, do not only affect the agricultural production and impact the livelihood of millions of eu citizens who live in rural areas, but are also intimately interlinked with our common fight against climate change, our concerns about soil erosion in many european regions, the impact on biodiversity and water supply. within the framework of the common agricultural policy, the lines of action under which the eu may currently provide support, both under the european agricultural guarantee fund (eagf) and the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd), have shown their positive effects and should be implemented to help the affected farmers. the new cap 2023—2027 strengthens the tools available, and the commission services have encouraged member states to use them to the fullest extent in their draft cap strategic plans, considering that, in the future, more extreme weather conditions will be ushered in by the climate crisis. regulation (eu) 2021/2115 includes an array of measures benefiting from eu support, of which risk management tools allowing member states the possibility to pay a farmer for the farmer’s contribution to a risk management tool, helping active farmers manage production and income risks related to their agricultural activity that are outside their control, interventions in the fruit and vegetable sector, the hop sector, the olive oil and table olive sector and the other sectors, and article 47 providing support for harvest and production insurance that contributes to safeguarding producers’ incomes where there are losses as a consequence of natural disasters, adverse climatic events, diseases or pest infestations. union financial assistance to the wine sector, article 59. due attention will be paid to how these possibilities for eu support have been considered under the spanish and portuguese cap strategic plans for 2023—2027, which were submitted in december 2021 and are currently under the analysis of the commission services. as i stated earlier, we need to adapt to climate change. this is a call to all member states that you’ll see more and more severe droughts. make the most of the new cap strategic plans to shift to less water—intensive crops and other measures recommended by the commission, and make sure that irrigation projects comply with the safeguards requested by the commission.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 171)
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
portugal is experiencing a climate emergency due to the drought that has been occurring in recent months and is likely to worsen. according to information from the portuguese institute of the sea and the atmosphere (ipma), january 2022 was the sixth driest month in a period of 90 years and the second worst since 2000, with about 35% of the territory suffering from severe drought and 12% from extreme drought. droughts and other extreme weather events pose considerable risks to human health, agriculture, biodiversity, water supply and hydropower generation. robust mechanisms need to be established or activated to combat such phenomena at european level, but with a clear focus on the circumstances of each country, such as those occurring in portugal and spain. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the costs of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 in accordance with the school leaving leave scheme. it is absolutely imperative that we find solutions that prevent us from reaching a point of no return, for the sake of our future.
in writing. the drought situation in portugal is very worrying and requires support and substantive measures to deal with the consequences that are already anticipated, from supply for human consumption, agricultural production and hydroelectric power to the tourism sector. in agriculture, for example, the impact on farms, requiring the use of irrigation, increases production costs, in the context of rising other factors such as energy and fuels, crushing prices in production and reducing incomes. in the cap debate we have proposed a public agricultural insurance funded from the union budget which would provide a minimum level of protection for all farmers in the member states. we believe that this would be a way of guaranteeing a minimum income to farmers affected by extreme weather events, other natural or man-made disasters, including forest fires, diseases and pests. the existence of this insurance would not prejudice the existence of other insurance schemes, specific to certain sectors, and would ensure a minimum protection for farmers. in the current situation, where mitigation and adaptation measures are still lacking, the creation of such insurance would be a wise move. unfortunately, this proposal of ours has been rejected by the majority in this parliament.
mr. chairman, please. commissioners, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. every year, 120,000 europeans get cancer from their jobs. it's the plumber who's inhaling asbestos and getting lung cancer. it is the carpenters who are exposed to uv radiation and get skin cancer and the veterinary nurses who take x-rays of our pets and get thyroid cancer and many other professional groups who work with substances or in environments that increase their risk of cancer and 80 000 of them die. it's mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters dying because they do their jobs. each case is tragic, but the whole picture is decidedly scandalous. it's time we start scaling up our ambitions. it's time we used some of the tools we know work. it's time we beat cancer in the workplace, too. our decisions today are an important step in the right direction. no one should get cancer from going to work, and in my eyes, one cancer patient is one too many.
before we continue with the debate and the next speaker, we shall proceed to the opening of today's first vote. we shall vote on the items on the agenda. the vote will take place from 9.45 to 11.00. the same voting method as in previous elections will be used. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i declare the first ballot open. you can vote until 11:00. the results of the first vote will be announced at 1 p.m. today.
the debate on the report by mrs stefania zambelli (a9-0114/2021) is now resumed.
mr president, workers are subject, not always consciously, to the deterioration of their working conditions, their health and, at the very least, their lives. the protection of workers must be a matter of principle and we cannot accept that in the 21st century this concern is not yet central. it is essential to ensure the protection of workers, the increase of their rights and safeguards, which are often inaccessible or put in question because of the precariousness of industrial ties, which are unfortunately too fashionable. if it is essential to increase the preventive aspect of exposure, it is also essential to ensure that the damage caused by exposure is fairly compensated. finally, it should be remembered that it is not enough for the law to have these rights enshrined. the national inspection authorities, which are too often short of manpower and material resources, must have real conditions for monitoring and intervening to enforce the law and the rights of workers.
mr president, commissioner, european workers have the right to expect us to legislate to make workplaces safer and healthier, putting into practice the principles of the european pillar of social rights, reinforced less than a year ago in the porto declaration. the union must incorporate into legislation, in a rapid manner, the knowledge that is being acquired on toxic substances, in particular those that are likely to cause cancer. the implementation of the measures resulting from the directive we are discussing will prevent hundreds of cases of cancer and other serious diseases and deserves full approval. it's a just and humane decision. first of all, above all, there must be people. at the same time, the union should ensure, in the context of international trade agreements, that third countries apply similar standards of protection for workers. today we are taking another step in the right direction, towards a social europe in which citizens take turns.
president, commission president, high representative, president zelenskyy, ukrainians, a barbaric aggression against a free state and a europe that unites against the world's return to the cold war. a war that is no longer just a mirage. there is a people who suffer and a world that changes. yes, we armed the ukraine. yes, we have imposed unprecedented sanctions on putin and the oligarchs. we've isolated putin's russia from the free world. we call on the endless courage of the ukrainians and the example of the thousands putin has jailed for shouting for an end to the war. if we are less free today because of this war, we will fight harder for the ambition of the european dream of freedom. we'll support ukraine, we'll deal with the energy crisis. we will finally show solidarity with all refugees and will assert europe's autonomy in the world without further delay. we will emerge stronger and more united from the crisis that tried to divide us. and we dream, we dream of the return of peace for our children, for the children of brave ukraine. i'm going to the ukrainian!
in writing. the escalation of hostilities by president vladimir putin, which led to military aggression by the russian federation, after the various attempts by the international community and the european union to reach a diplomatic solution through dialogue, is absolutely reprehensible. there is a total disregard for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, calling into question the values we subscribe to in the united nations charter of guaranteeing international peace and security, consolidated by international law and human rights. if on the one hand we must be united in responding to the blatant attacks that call these values into question, on the other hand we must support ukraine in defending itself against this unjustified attack. we need to support the looming refugee crisis at the eu/ukraine border through a strong, coordinated and supportive stance that puts people's lives first. the eu and its member states should therefore show full support for the ukrainian and luso-ukrainian communities, as portugal has already done. the outbreak of war will have a major impact on our society and economy, in different sectors such as tourism, which is why the eu should anticipate support for the sectors that will be most affected.
cohesion policy is the main investment policy of the european union. in addition to ensuring the reduction of economic, social and territorial disparities, it allows for strategic investments that would otherwise be difficult or time-consuming to implement, such as complementary support to eu regions, such as the outermost regions, which allows for their development and the continuous reduction of inequalities. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken on the union's financial interests, in particular on the budgetary position of the union. respect for the objectives of the paris agreement, guided by the european green deal, and the objective of energy autonomy for europe should also be a priority, in partnership with local authorities, institutions and civil society in the preparation of cohesion policy programmes from the outset. i welcome the intention of the european commission, and in particular commissioner elisa ferreira, to make the cohesion policy regulations more flexible in order to allow immediate funding and support for cities and regions hosting refugees and also to finance support for ukrainian refugees.
mr president, the golden visas operate on the basis of an indecent principle: the principle that the rights that come with nationality can be bought, the principle that people who choose our countries to work, often in low-paid jobs, can wait years to get the nationality and the rights associated with it, but people who want the nationality to launder money from corruption or financial crime can get it on the spot. this principle is not only allowed but has been promoted in portugal. in 2013 and 2014, the right-wing government in portugal went on a real tour of russia selling portuguese gold visas. in the same months as the euromaidan and with particular intensity after the invasion of crimea, the portuguese government was luring russian millionaires into this very regrettable scheme. and even today, even with a war and a criminal and illegal invasion of ukraine, the portuguese government, now socialist, continues to refuse to revoke these gold visas and to penalize the elite who are supporting and financing this invasion.
mr president, commissioner, commissioner, thank you very much, sophia, for this opportunity. european citizenship is not for sale. democracy, freedom, prosperity, european values cannot be for sale and cannot be for sale to the richest. not only is it ethically reprehensible, but it jeopardizes european security. if there were any doubts, the gold passports of all the russian oligarchs made it clear in the current context of the ukraine crisis and the sanctions against russia. we must put an end to the golden passports and we must monitor the golden visas closely, including in the context of the european semester as the report says. we need to be sure that there is indeed an effective investment initiative. we need to make it public who benefits. the gold visas cannot be used, under any circumstances, as instruments of money laundering or corruption. for a safer europe, the european commission should present the legislative proposals that the european parliament is clearly calling for today to stop any abuse in defence of justice and european values.
madam president, colleagues, the russian military invasion, aggression, war, occupation in ukraine have shown many things - all of them unfavourable to the european union and its leaders. we saw what a leader means in the face of the president of ukraine and we saw how some of the people who claim to be leaders behaved, but we'll talk about that another time. what is important, and what i want to focus on today and now, is the result of the so-called 'green deal' for the energy independence of european countries. what is the green deal actually doing right now? the intention, the desire and the demand to ban, for example, coal, which is sovereign, our bulgarian, polish, german, makes us more dependent on the state aggressor, makes us more dependent on the russian federation, which is waging war in europe. what we need to do, madam president and colleagues, is immediately, immediately stop this green deal, produce our own energy from our own sources like maritsa east, stop talking about stopping them altogether and be appropriate to the situation. and let me just say something at the end of this presentation. europe must respond to ukraine's request for protection. we need to vote on a no-fly zone here. here we must ask this hall to support the legion of volunteers who will defend ukraine. we owe it to him. it's not just declarations, and it's not just talk. there has to be action. long live bulgaria and ukraine!
madam president, women's rights are to be fulfilled, to be pursued and cannot be just propaganda for equality to be achieved. on international women's day, we affirm that we must make progress in the fight against unemployment and job insecurity by valuing the careers and socio-professional status of women, increasing wages for all workers and achieving equal pay between men and women. progress is needed in promoting the rights of working mothers by reducing working hours, respecting the rights of motherhood and fatherhood and the right of mothers and fathers to accompany their children, ensuring free daycare and creating a public network of quality and accessible support facilities and services for the elderly and disabled. progress is needed in ensuring equal access for all women to public services and social functions of the state, in the granting of pensions and pensions with dignity and in ending the increase in the retirement age. we welcome the role of women and their representative organizations in the fight for their rights. you can count on us.
madam president, over the years we have seen the hacking of databases and campaigns of disinformation and manipulation that threaten the competitiveness of our electoral processes and the legitimacy of our institutions. we've also seen the funding of radical political movements, some of them with seats in this chamber, through the corruption, money laundering, cryptocurrency and digital asset schemes used to serve putin and xi jinping and other dictators and autocrats. it's time to say enough! a resilient eu implies 27 strong democracies and an active foreign policy in strengthening democracy in the world. it is imperative that the commission draw up a list of guidelines to address the remaining opacity in the financing of political parties and that in dialogue with the osce, the council of europe and other relevant organisations in this field we focus on strengthening and adapting election observation to the new challenges. the last few weeks have shown us that the defence of democracy is a fight that does not allow for naivety, disregard or delay.
mr president, suddenly the refugees have become our ukrainian neighbours, and we are forced to act quickly in the face of the brutality of russian aggression which in a few days has forced nearly two million people to flee. a moving population, overwhelmingly women and children, particularly vulnerable people, which calls us to respond to the particular needs of protection and to prevent the establishment of trafficking networks. unlike other times, we are able to react, quickly, united. all right, we can do it. it proves we can do it. so let us use the moment and the lessons learned to institute a mandatory mechanism of solidarity-sharing responsibility for international protection. we must not forget those who, fleeing the middle east, africa and other parts of the world, are now on european soil, victims of violations of their fundamental rights. today for them, tomorrow for us. let us put an end to the hellholes for migrants and refugees within the european union.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, more than 2 million refugees. we'll probably be down to three by the end of the week, and if this war doesn't stop, it won't be long before that number doubles. they are overwhelmingly women and children. these are absolutely innocent people who, without any explanation and for no reason, have seen their lives fall apart in front of the eyes of the entire world. i want, however, to leave words of gratitude. countries, governments, peoples are mobilized in a movement of solidarity that should leave us proud and hopeful for a better world. if on other occasions, probably for bad reasons, we have failed to show the solidarity we ought to have shown to people who need us, this time europe and europeans are responding. solidarity alone will not be enough to cope with the largest movement of refugees in europe since the second world war. we're going to need the means, money, housing, schools, to provide health care for these people. we started with solidarity and we did well. let's do the rest now because these people don't have time to waste any more of their lives.
ladies and gentlemen, in february 2020, before the pandemic began, women faced numerous political, social and economic inequalities, some of which have been accentuated in the last two years or at least have become more visible, such as precarious employment and therefore higher unemployment, or the lack of reconciliation between personal, professional and family life. in the european parliament, in all the committees we work in, from foreign policy to the economy, from the budget to the internal market, from agriculture to fisheries, we try to bridge these and other inequalities. i'm not saying that we've done better in this legislature than we have in previous legislatures. but we know that everything is not okay. the commission has already given some figures which show that there is still an imbalance between the representation of men and women. as my colleague robert biedroń has said, when we look at the committees' choices, we are not very happy. for example, in the special committee on artificial intelligence, the final report was attended by only men, both the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur. as caroline criado perez wrote in her book "invisible women", the real reason we exclude women is because we see the rights of 50 percent of the population as the interests of a minority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on this international women's day it is good that we do not just discuss the internal problems of the european parliament, which also exist, but that we remember women all over the world. let us remember the afghan women, whose most basic rights, such as access to education, were taken away under the taliban regimes; let us remember the women, or rather the girls, who are forced into marriage and do not choose the age at which they can or want to marry; let us remember the more than 120 million school-age girls who are outside the education system; let us remember the terrorist groups like boko haram, who are known for destroying schools, killing teachers and kidnapping girls, whose only crime is that they want to learn. it is estimated that this group alone, which is active mostly in nigeria, which is not that far from europe, has killed over 2,200 teachers, destroyed over 1,400 schools and caused 600,000 children to lose access to education. our foreign policy can also be a weapon to defend the rights of women, especially those who find themselves in the most vulnerable situations out there, and help combat problems that should have been eradicated from the world already, such as female genital mutilation, which still affects 200 million women worldwide. the report we are discussing here today, and i thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done, stresses the importance of ensuring support for victims of this and other forms of violence, advocates the need to take into account gender-disaggregated data in the distribution of humanitarian aid and calls for a significant percentage of this aid to be devoted to projects whose main objective is to reduce gender inequalities. as in sweden, the foreign policy of the european union and all the member states must be feminist and cannot ignore half the population.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, commissioners, i would first like to congratulate my colleagues on the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the committee on budgets underlined that nextgenerationeu is having a stabilising effect on member states and that the recovery and resilience mechanism required further adaptation of the european semester. for the promotion of inclusive sustainable growth all options must be considered, including the revision of the stability and growth pact, the importance of the existence of a european commission capacity to go to financial markets on behalf of the european union. finally, the success of the recovery and resilience mechanism should be the basis for redefining the european semester as a privileged instrument for the coordination of economic, budgetary, social and environmental policies, with renewed democratic legitimacy, greater accountability, and more parliamentary oversight. a european semester with identity, which should be given to it by a regulation of its own based on lessons learned from the governance of the recovery and resilience mechanism.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the economic rules of the european union are obsolete and are and have always been counterproductive. they were suspended during the pandemic because everyone knew they couldn't afford to respond to this economic crisis anymore. and we know today that they will not allow us to respond to the economic crisis that is coming and will be provoked by the russian invasion of ukraine, either from the point of view of responding to the economic and social crisis, or from the point of view of the investment that is essential in the energy transition so that europe can reduce its dependence on russia in this field. that is why the suspension of economic rules is a window of opportunity to change them, a window of opportunity which this report contributes to squandering. the report calls for a clear path to the revision of the rules, but it does not have a single clear, substantive commitment on how that revision should be done. it has vague ideas and paragraphs that say one thing and its opposite, as we also heard in commissioner dombrovskis' speech. it even has the famous references to the so-called prudent fiscal policies that have destroyed so many economies within the european union. we have shared with the socialists and the greens our common views on the need to review the economic rules of the european union. the strategy of the right is clear, it is to postpone and delay this debate to leave everything the same when this window of opportunity closes. this report plays that game and contributes to the loss of that opportunity.
madam president, the annual growth review is a kick-off to the european semester. this year, if indeed the last of the general derogation clause of the stability and growth pact, is crucial for the debate and above all for the decisions on the future of economic governance in the european union. but let's be clear, we are not and will not grow to the level we expected. economic forecasts for this final stretch of the pandemic are already moving forward with more modest numbers, but the outbreak of war in ukraine is significantly changing our expectations. economic and budgetary policy cannot ignore it. if the revision of budget rules was necessary for recovery from the pandemic, it became urgent in the response to the war. this review must be completed before the end of the year, otherwise we will lose the reformist impetus that has emerged from the challenges the union is now facing. realistic paths to deficit reduction, responsibility in managing national public debts and ambition in issuing joint debt in the union are three pillars of this debate. we must be bold in our solutions, but at the same time be aware that we have a duty of solidarity towards future generations. we want more europe, more unity and more solidarity precisely because we want a better future.
madam president, after two years of the pandemic europe was on the right track. the vaccines then the rrf. these moments of solidarity and unity honour the legacy of the eu. we found ourselves in the position to deliver economic growth and sustainable reforms again. unfortunately, reality betrayed our best hopes. with putin’s war on ukraine, we face now a new, humongous challenge. energy, essential goods and supply chains are suffering a severe shock that deserves our full attention. this is certainly not the time to reinstate old fiscal rules and budget cuts, but rather to work together, invest towards our energy independence and to relieve the european people from the negative impacts of this war. we need a true european response to the economic and social consequences of putin’s aggression.
madam president, madam prime minister, dear high representative, colleagues, the war that shocks us with its atrocities is now infiltrating our lives through the economy. it's the cost of fuel for our cars, the meat on our table, the bread. but let us not allow the economic consequences to dictate any concession to barbaric aggression, for that would be a failure of humanism and solidarity which we would never forgive ourselves. we bear the cost of defending freedom. today it's the ukrainians, tomorrow it could be us. as with the pandemic, it is crucial that the eu acts quickly before the war turns into a deep crisis. a major economic plan to respond to the war crisis is therefore indispensable. it will not be the redirection of nextgenerationeu, whose funds are needed for the structural investment deficit of the european union. a new plan with new common resources is needed, a nextgenerationeu 2.0. the success we have had in not lacking ambition to respond to the covid-19 crisis should guide us now to respond further to this challenge, which is challenging the union itself.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the present situation only reinforces the importance of ensuring greater energy independence. this autonomy means greater use of electricity with the corresponding progressive abandonment of fossil fuels, of fossil energies. but to do that, we have to be more self-sufficient not only in electricity generation, but also in the development, promotion, production and recycling of batteries and their components. with planet earth's finite resources, we need to be able to use and reuse these components. this can only be done by a strong commitment to the circular economy and also to the battery side. it is therefore important to recall here the general objective of achieving a significant level of recovery of materials from batteries, which is not being achieved. i would like to reiterate my support for the overall objectives of the proposal: to strengthen the functioning of the internal market, in particular for products, processes and waste, by ensuring a fair market and conditions of competition with common rules and standards, to promote the circular economy of the various components and to reduce the environmental and social impacts of all stages of the battery life cycle. we can, however, go further with our vote by facilitating the process of removing and replacing batteries in light vehicles and a transparent labelling policy for the consumer. big changes are made with small steps, and big wins are made with small breakthroughs. if we want energy independence, decarbonization and moving forward in electrification, moving beyond fossil fuels, then let's move forward in these matters. for those who want to learn, ignorance is merely a step. may we continue to learn and live sustainably within the limits of our planet.
madam president, this eighth environment action programme is an essential instrument to guide the european union in its environmental and climate objectives for the next few years with a view to 2050. our response to climate and biodiversity emergencies requires the implementation of a holistic approach, taking into account mitigation and adaptation measures, the circular economy, the protection and recovery of biodiversity and the zero pollution target. this approach will also have to take account of the specificities of european regions and that they have different starting points. i would like to draw attention to the outermost regions, such as madeira and the azores. it is also essential to include the local level in the decision-making process, which will help to contribute to territorial cohesion in the eu. now more than ever, we have all the signs that we must reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and end our investments in them as quickly as possible. the answer, and the only way to save the planet for future generations, is to transition to a sustainable, welfare economy.
it is a strange thing, mr president, commissioner, that we should be talking about safety at work when in a neighbouring country nothing is safe and civilians are being bombed. but we are talking about the future and the future must be good for workers. it is good that a new framework for health and safety in the workplace is emerging. cancer still causes the most work-related deaths. so we must try to eliminate dangerous substances. digitalisation is of course very efficient, but it is also often a source of stress, especially for older workers. it is important that older workers are given time to adapt to these new techniques. employers will have to take care of that. stress causes a lot of mental problems. it would therefore be good to strike a balance between the work situation and the home situation, because very often you see that particularly older workers have a caring function at home in addition to their work. it would be good if employers took this into account more often. in belgium we have the right to disconnect and there is talk of this too. it would perhaps be a good idea to introduce this at european level. rotation can also be a problem. in this parliament, for example, officials have to rotate every five years. that's actually discriminatory, especially for older employees, because once you have your rhythm and knowledge, you have to go to a new workplace. and then you're supposed to start over as a junior in a new department. that often causes mental stress. we are advocating prevention in the workplace and a healthy workplace. we are calling for employers to invest more in preventive health care, because that is an investment in future savings. we need these workers, now and in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking my danish colleague, marianne vind, for her excellent work. the measures presented in the report are important for protecting workers in europe and for creating a sustainable working life. it is therefore important that we now raise our ambitions in the field of occupational safety and health. the legislation and the strategy for health and safety at work must be based on the reality of the present day, including a dialogue with the social partners, who are after all the closest to the employees. having a job to go to is important, but people should also come home from a safe workplace. we're going to start from the perspective of a sustainable professional life. it is good for the workers, and also for the european labour market. for too many, it is instead marked by insecurity and risk. stronger protection is needed for health and safety risks, as no one should be at risk of accidents or long-term illness. the reality is also that people die going to work, to provide for their families, to put food on the table, to create a better future for themselves and their children. a zero vision is needed to actively prevent work-related accidents and illnesses. cancer accounts for 52% of all work-related deaths in the eu. these are frightening numbers. asbestos has been banned since 2005. yet we are exposed to it daily in our schools, in our workplaces, in our homes. a european strategy for the cleanup of all asbestos will save lives. we have a long way to go, but reflection also increases the pace of progress. together we will ensure a sustainable working life for all workers in europe. together, we'll make sure no one dies on the job.
mr president, accidents at work, occupational diseases and health and safety problems at work are not inseparable from existing working conditions, precariousness, the imposed rhythms of work or the deregulation of working hours. the right to safety, hygiene and health at work is a social right of workers which requires respect for the right to physical integrity, the prevention of accidents, occupational diseases, work-related diseases and the promotion of health at the workplace. in portugal, this right is a constitutional right, and it is the responsibility of employers to take measures to guarantee this right, and it is the responsibility of the state, through labour inspections, to effectively monitor compliance with it and to take punitive action in the event of non-compliance. much remains to be done to reduce work accidents drastically, particularly fatal ones. at the same time, it is essential to increase social protection and effective follow-up measures for returning workers to work. some occupational diseases which, although not classified as such, are in fact truly so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in the 21st century, the right to safety, hygiene and health at work cannot be a mirage.
mr president, given the high level of health protection we aim to achieve in all union policies and actions, it is essential that we focus on extending vision zero to cover also the active prevention of work-related accidents and diseases, in particular by addressing psychosocial risks and mental health, adapting to digital, environmental and demographic transitions, minimising negative impacts and enhancing the positive effects on health literacy and its role in recognising the risks and modifiable risk factors, in particular those linked to cancer, which still represent the main cause of work-related death. this is a realistic and progressive report calling for better working conditions and safety for workers and it is our duty to ensure that it is consistent.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, taxation is at the heart of the political debate. on the one hand, we have the positive impulses of the agreement on the reform of the international tax system and the recent initiatives of the commission, and on the other hand, we have the negative impulses of the tax scandals and the economic crisis resulting from the pandemic. the response to this crisis cannot ignore the tax dimension. we are also beginning to feel the effects of the war that has broken out in europe and we are all feeling the impact of energy taxation in our pockets. here it becomes clear that taxes will play a key role in the recovery of the european economy and in the green and digital transition. this report is therefore timely and i would like to congratulate my colleague and friend mr luděk niedermayer on the proposals he has brought to this parliament. i am not going to go into the details of the proposals. simplify tax processes for citizens and businesses with less red tape and associated costs, reflect on the role of positive tax incentives and balance with free competition in the internal market, focus on digitalisation with electronic invoices, harmonised models and a one-stop shop, improve information exchange systems and enhance european platforms, and mitigate tax distortion in favour of debt. as i said, taxation is on the agenda and european taxpayers want more than statements, they want concrete action. we're here to be and we're here to demand it.
rapporteur. – mr president, in these difficult times we are facing, in which, as the commissioner was just referring to in the previous debate, we will need significant amounts of resources to face the challenges in front of us because of this war. i am pleased that in this report we managed to achieve a broad majority supporting fairer and simpler taxation in the field of withholding taxes, guaranteeing progress in different issues within our discussions. there was a positive environment of discussion between those more actively participating in the negotiations, and even at this late hour in the evening many of the shadow rapporteurs are here with us – i see as isabel, billy, i see ernest, some of our colleagues that were our shadows and probably others are at home, but they were certainly intensely involved in the debate. i want to thank them and want to thank the secretariat, obviously, of the fisc subcommittee, but also our group's team and my own team that helped with all this work and endeavour we did together. the final result, i think, mirrors this positive environment and constructive debate we had. we want to increase the effectiveness of our tax systems, reducing avoidance and fraud risks. we want to improve cross-border investments and lower the administrative burden. these efforts should go and in hand, and this is the tone of this report on the european withholding tax framework. after the many recent scandals regarding tax abuse, the european parliament has the responsibility to address the shortcomings that still allow profit-shifting and aggressive tax planning to continue. the report starts by welcoming the oecd inclusive framework agreement, including the global minimum effective corporate tax for multinational corporations. this is an historic moment, and we call on the council to ensure the agreement comes into effect already in 2023. in light of this positive momentum created, we expect the commission to present a legislative proposal for an eu-wide withholding tax in order to ensure that payments generated within the union are taxed at least once before leaving it. this is particularly important in the current environment we are living in. we cannot allow financial resources to leave the union without being subject to taxation while facing inflationary pressure due to the severe shocks in the supply of energy, of essential goods, all the consequences of what we are facing at these moments. the report calls on the commission and the member states to ensure that all payments, including dividends, royalties and interest generated in the eu are taxed at an effective rate. these payments should cease to be a means of profit-shifting. the review of the ird and psd directives should be on the table and then in light of the ‘cum-ex’ and cum—cum’ scandals, it is clear that further cooperation and assistance between tax authorities is needed. this fraud was responsible for eur 140 billion lost in revenues in just 11 member states. therefore we must act swiftly and decisively. therefore we call on the commission to extend the mandatory exchange of information to dividend arbitrage schemes and capital gains, including granting refunds, but also to assess the extension of reporting requirements to cross-border arrangements. the final chapter of the report is focused on simpler taxation and removing barriers to investments in the single market, building on the commitment to complete the capital markets union, which is also something very important for the completion of our monetary union. repayments of withholding taxes remain predominantly a paper-driven process: slow, burdensome and more prone to fraud. in the past, the commission issued recommendations about simplification, but the results, unfortunately, are not totally convincing. with this in mind, we welcome the intention of the commission to pursue legislative harmonisation for a common and standardised system of withholding taxes. there is more than one way to go in this direction, as it was exposed in the impact assessment. for the moment, pursuing legal harmonisation of procedures is the most sensible and feasible path. this can be complemented with the use of digital technologies, making the resulting system more efficient in the countries, but also to facilitate seamless procedures between different national systems. a full relief-at-source system should only be considered at a later stage and cannot be in any way detrimental to the fight against tax abuse. colleagues i think the negotiation team managed to find a very positive and balanced text that delivers a win-win approach. again, i thank you for your support in those negotiations, and i certainly call on your support in the vote tomorrow on this important report about fairer and simpler taxation in the eu.
mr president, the tax scandals, of which the 'pandora papers' are the most pressing and recent example, are leading our citizens, well, to demand more from policy-makers. at international level, the agreement reached at oecd level on the reform of the international tax system is a paradigmatic one. we in the union now have a responsibility to take the lead in implementing it. at european level, we are committed to making the new framework for taxation of business income, befit, an instrument for the sake of fairness and tax transparency, but also for the competitiveness of our companies. national withholding systems thus emerge as one of the areas where we can and must go further, improving cooperation between the 27 and safeguarding the integrity of our internal market. on the one hand, withholding tax ensures recurring revenues for national budgets, helps to combat profit shifting and helps to prevent tax evasion and avoidance. on the other hand, we face risks of double taxation, of deterrence of cross-border investment and of bureaucratic overload for taxpayers. it is to enhance the benefits of these systems and to mitigate their risks that we want a clearer european framework. this european framework requires the unlocking of long-standing european legislation such as the interest and royalties directive, the approximation of the rules on reduction and exemption and the improvement of information exchange systems. the fight against fraud and evasion and the commitment to fairer, more transparent and competitive tax systems have several fronts. this is one of them. and here we are ready to take over.
rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, thank you for your words and especially for the colleagues who have spoken. i would say that perhaps the most important thing is the broad unity we have shown in our priorities, which go beyond the equally important simplification of the taxation and withholding system. we demand, we ask, we agree on measures which are precisely linked to this common system of withholding tax at european level and which prevent the outflow of profits, these gigantic profits, from the european union to tax havens, as the examples given here by the chairman of the fisc subcommittee, paul tang. now that we have a global agreement on corporate taxation, we also need to move in a coordinated way in this direction. as i said, commissioner, beyond simplification, we demand and ask the commission for courage in the proposals that come in and we will certainly demand from the members of the council that they be consistent at this time when we will need resources for a just response to the crisis that we have ahead of us.
madam president, russia's military aggression against ukraine has shown how important it is to overcome europe's dependence on russia. an economic dependence which has become also a political dependence in response to this military aggression. it is important that this energy sovereignty of europe be achieved with an energy transition agenda, without hesitation and zigzagging, and not through a return to the coal age. and it is also important that the truly solidarity-based and responsible response that is being given to the refugee crisis of this war in ukraine extends to all refugees of all backgrounds, colours and religions. europe cannot have two asylum policies, it cannot discriminate between human lives. but it is also important that the victims of this war are not used to remilitarize europe, by enriching the same european military industry which has sold some of the weapons with which russia is now attacking the ukrainian people. ten european countries continued to sell arms to russia even after the embargo imposed by the european institutions. remiliarization is the promotion of this industry, which will then spread weapons around the world. and it is also, and it cannot be, the whitewashing and strengthening of nato, an international organization which is responsible for so many criminal wars, for so many millions of dead and refugees across this planet. the path of peace is the path of an autonomous diplomacy of the european union, a diplomacy for peace.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cruel and unjustified invasion of ukraine is causing a real humanitarian disaster: ten million displaced people, many of them to the european union. the solidarity with those we receive must be matched by the means we use to welcome and integrate them. the response to war is not just sanctions or military support for ukraine. it must also be given the means to support refugees here in europe and to deal with the social consequences of this war. it is the most disadvantaged people who suffer the most from the impact of escalating prices, energy or food. we cannot allow the increase in poverty, particularly energy poverty, to be the price to pay for this war. we have been able to create the next generation eu to respond to the covid crisis. let us also know how to innovate, let us know how to rise to the occasion in this struggle which is also our struggle for freedom and democracy.
madam president, what is expected from this european council is a european response to support ukraine and ukrainians, those who remain in the country and those who join the european union. that it punishes the invader without cutting off the russian people who, like us, oppose this invasion. that it takes on new priorities, like defense and energy security. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. add, not replace. protecting european citizens from security, but also from the impact of sanctions on european economies. they cannot be the most vulnerable to pay for the rises in energy or food prices. it paves the way for a strategic autonomy of the european union in all its dimensions, including energy. a robust european response is expected, as was the european and robust response to the pandemic crisis.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it should not be for the sake of this absurd war, but for the sake of justice for farmers, who are men and women who want to produce in a way that respects good environmental practices. but the truth is that agriculture, food security and food sovereignty have come to the political agenda for these reasons that shouldn't exist. the reason is that we can now face reality and stop the ideology and ideological fighting that makes no sense. the epp must of course defend european farmers. we have to produce more because europe has to feed more. and, madam president, commissioner, exceptional situations call for exceptional measures. i therefore propose that the commission should review the objectives and timetables of the prairie to prairie and biodiversity strategies. reviewing the deadlines, not ending them. the legislative process should be suspended. and finally, commissioner, increase, but make it urgent, the support for farmers.
as a result of the invasion of ukraine by the russian federation, the european union is now in the early stages of a food crisis, triggered by disruption in supply and distribution chains and by the exponential rise in fuel prices. a detailed action plan is needed to ensure the eu's strategic autonomy, including the autonomy and resilience of the food system. to do this, our farming and fishing systems must become more sustainable and future-oriented, with the aim of reducing dependence on imports and increasing domestic production. we must reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and fertilisers by looking for alternatives, but always guaranteeing the protection of our farmers, in particular through the common agricultural policy. in this regard, we should take advantage of the measures already planned and adopted at european level such as the european green deal and the eu biodiversity and prairie to prairie strategies which will contribute to mitigating this crisis and reducing uncertainty in the affected sectors. in resolving this crisis, we must maintain food trade flows in all european regions, particularly those which, because of their distance from the continental shelf, may be disproportionately affected, such as the outermost regions.
the support for ukraine and the eu's response capacity to deal with the consequences of the war must be translated into concrete action. we are faced with humanitarian tragedies, while we are already beginning to feel the economic consequences of this inexplicable war. this reality is already reflected in the prices we pay for food products, which, in addition to speculation, are reflected in the turbulence of supply chains, the price of fuel and the transport of food, and reflect the lack of such fundamental materials as fertilisers. i therefore join those who argue that the eu civil protection mechanism should be activated. the humanitarian aspect, no doubt, but also to try to prevent risks to the food security of the eu that we can foresee, which could result from an escalation or prolongation of this war. the eu is therefore advised to have an action plan capable of securing supply chains by using 'food corridors' by sea, rail or road, while accelerating measures with an impact on the agricultural sector.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this debate, in particular for the report and for your extremely valuable and supportive contribution. we really count on this if we will make our proposals for the modification, the revision of the financial regulation. indeed i think it’s important to make progress, i cannot agree more with what you have said. i think what we need is also your support in your member states, because there are some governments which hide behind the data protection issues, but in reality it’s because there are weaknesses of their it systems which prevent them from engaging in interoperability and so on. by the way, next generation eu now offers a lot of possibilities to invest, in particular in digitalisation. some member states consider this again as a kind of transfer of another kind of sovereignty to brussels or whatsoever. this is all nonsense. it’s really about taking care about our union budget and really identifying at a very early stage if there is a misuse, as mr fernandes said, very often the final beneficiaries are making errors because we have to admit that our regulations are not the simplest. so, it’s always a mixture between the fraudulent issues and simply errors, and i think with an it system in place, we can avoid a lot of problems, which is finally in the interests of all of us, and would make also our life in terms of administrative procedures much easier. once again, thank you for this debate and i wish you all a good rest.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already done so. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. thank you very much for that. oligarchic structures are a structural problem. this cannot be resolved by any public prosecution of individuals, but by changing the structures. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. the transparency in monitoring where european union funds are going is unfortunately not fully achieved to date, simply because of national resistance and resistance by the member states. we often have to rely on national authorities, and if the national authorities do not function properly or if there is historical corruption, we are not able to identify these structures early and quickly enough to prevent, for example, excessive concentration and preference, interruptions, for example in tenders, the recurrence of the same ones, which can then be enriched accordingly, that tenders are undermined, that there is systematic fraud, for example. we actually need to do better. but i would also like to say to those who have just spoken on the left that it would also help to tell the truth. we must be clear: the arrest of boyko borisov was not in accordance with the rule of law. it was carried out without a judge, it was carried out without prosecutors and then imagine that in his time bojko borisov had simply had the police arrest the socialist opposition leader. but if something had happened, you would have stood there and yelled at me. if you want to maintain the rule of law and fight corruption, you have to follow the rules and laws yourself period. and no matter who is accused, the citizen and the head of government are the same: we need the evidence, we need investigations, we need the support for the european public prosecutor's office to do its job. and these arrests - to be clear once again - were not related to the 120 cases. the home office has now admitted that this is definitely wrong. but let the european prosecutor do her job. we need her, she needs staff, she needs support. and thank you, commissioner, for finally getting her that.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on thursday 24 march 2022. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. it is regrettable that, even in the midst of the war in ukraine, the european parliament is launching a political attack against member states which have made the greatest contribution to the eu's solidarity with those fleeing the war, threatening to withhold funds from them. the european parliament's report is another brutal political attack and baseless accusation, based on tabloid rumors and fake news, with clear political aims. while objective assessments show that hungary and poland are increasingly effective in tackling the misuse of eu funds and corruption, the commission has also noted that the eu is not yet fully aware of the risks of corruption in the eu. commissioner hahn listed the control systems available, the various financial instruments to ensure that the aid is used correctly and said that both the eu and the member states have zero tolerance for irregularities and abuses and that the commission has a duty to ensure that the aid is used correctly. these tools and systems need to be used more effectively, rather than political attacks on member states and the disintegration of eu unity. this is the thinking that led to the arrest of former bulgarian prime minister boyko borisov for one night after a visit by the european prosecutor general, reportedly without a judicial mandate and proper suspicion, and then to the fact that meps from the european people's party travelled to bulgaria to conduct a fact-finding inquiry into the incident. this approach is incompatible with the rule of law and the principle of subsidiarity. i took it.
in writing. the protection of european union funds against fraud is of paramount importance, especially in the context of the financial crisis we have been facing for several years. eu funds must be used in strict compliance with the principles of sound financial management and subject to full and unlimited control by law at eu level, including the ep. this will increase transparency and responsiveness to citizens' needs and ensure that taxpayers' money is spent properly. scandals involving fraud, conflicts of interest, corruption and other illegal activities affecting the eu's financial interests involving high-level politicians in the member states and the eu institutions, as well as customs, cross-border and digital fraud and crime, often taking over the structures and support of criminal organisations, are regularly reported by the media across europe. we need to complete this procedure as soon as possible. the financial management of eu funds is of paramount importance. it is unacceptable that the databases of beneficiaries of eu funds do not contain information on final beneficiaries and actual beneficiaries. such actions lead to abuses and the commission must strengthen its capacity to prevent and detect fraud.
the agenda will then be followed by a minute's speaking time on a matter of political importance, in accordance with rule 172 of the rules of procedure.
madam president, we're going to end our dependence on russia! let's summarize the facts first. the aggressor in an unprecedented conflict that is taking place just a few hundred kilometres from the borders of the european union is russia. the country that was attacked is ukraine, but it has defended itself heroically, and i want to pay tribute to it from this place, and to the courage of the people there. and also to thank all those who support and help the ukrainian defense in any way. and of course, they also help war refugees. but above all, on the floor of the european parliament, i feel the need to appeal for an end to dependence - especially energy dependence - on the aggressor, which is putin's evil empire. let's say it out loud! if we do not take the necessary steps, we will indirectly continue to encourage the imperial russian policy and sooner or later we will undoubtedly see more explosions. so i repeat, no more dependence on the aggressor! in the name of the victims of this war, to whom we bid a painful farewell and who, i trust, will not be forgotten. and with the knowledge that europe has made a significant and, indeed, a much-needed sacrifice. the victim is her naivete, the face of russian imperialism.
madam president, together in this house we are called ‘the european union’. we are safe and our citizens feel that they have a future. the union can continue to develop, despite sometimes being hesitant. however, decision makers have ignored what might happen and did not engage enough in investing in modernising the common project. they locked the doors and the windows to our house, hoping no one would ever get in. but now our neighbourhood is on fire and the flames might reach our house soon. they are in our backyard and, together with our strategic partner, the united states, we need to put out the fire by moving forward at a faster pace, meaning we need to: consolidate our defence in partnership with nato; protect our population against energy and food crises; financially support ukraine, eu border countries and partners like the republic of moldova; make european funding more flexible; reform the eu. i call on all the international leaders present in brussels to consolidate this house, defend our values by investing in education, our democracy and culture, and listen to our citizens. keep the door open and be courageous enough to protect our neighbourhood.
madam president, one year ago, together with other meps, i proposed a joint motion for a resolution on the 10th anniversary of the uprising in syria. in it we called on the commission to prepare an action plan on impunity to include a specific chapter on syria. unfortunately, so far nothing has been done, despite the request being the central plank of a resolution that enjoyed cross-party support. the eu has been at the forefront of the fight against impunity, providing technical and financial assistance for accountability efforts. however, the invasion of ukraine should now provide the motivation for the european commission to proceed with an action plan. russia’s behaviour in ukraine is the brutal standard of warfare, in particular siege tactics and targeting of civilian infrastructure that is such a feature of the russian involvement in syria. the eu has to get tough on impunity to protect the staff involved in the humanitarian relief efforts in ukraine, in syria and elsewhere.
madam president, the invasion of ukraine has naturally generated great instability on the markets and a sharp rise in fuel prices, and this increase has naturally affected several sectors, including the fisheries sector. but we know that there are large tax exemptions for fossil fuels in fisheries and also subsidies to this industry, and it is not in this way that we can help small-scale fishing and diversify activities within a blue economy. and so, considering that the fisheries sector does not pay around €1.5 billion a year in taxes - and therefore is not collected by the member states - we need to rethink how to help this sector in the transition to a truly green economy. and that is why we must use all the funds at our disposal, in particular the fisheries fund, to diversify the opportunity for fishermen, and in particular small-scale fishermen, to modernise their fleet, to have cleaner engines, engines that are really more decarbonised, and to be able to adapt to new professions within a blue economy. without this, we will not be able to make the transition to a decarbonised economy in the fisheries sector.
madam president, despite the rain in recent days, much of the portuguese territory remains in a state of severe or extreme drought. with the sanctions under the pretext of war and criminal speculation, the escalation of prices and the shortage of raw materials are further suffocating small and mediumsized farms. it is therefore necessary to support farmers and to mitigate the increase in production costs, starting immediately with the fight against the speculative rise in the prices of fuel, electricity, fertilisers and feedstuffs, by confronting the monopolies and the large-scale distribution which crush the prices of national production. it is also time to question the cap policies and its model of over-intensive farming and monoculture, which is a drain on the water we do not have. the water we have should be used for the food we need as bread for our mouths, for the promotion of our food sovereignty and our right to produce. we welcome the farmers who will be taking to the streets in braga tomorrow in defence of national production and their work.
in writing. the political impotence and short-sightedness of so-called western leaders have brought europe to a state of dependence that is on the verge of destroying the european economy. the imposition of the 'green deal' led to a huge jump in electricity prices. it has to be said that despite the billions poured into 'green energy', fossil fuels dominate the overall energy mix. just to give you an example, in germany, which is a leader in green transition, it looks like this: 77% of the country's primary energy comes from oil, gas and coal, and only 5.2% comes from solar and wind. despite the facts, the mad push for a green utopia continues, with member states being pressured to close their only domestically-generated power plants - the chp plants. in bulgaria, this is most striking for people working in the maritsa basin, which provides a livelihood for over 20,000 people. if the eu wants affordable and sustainable energy, it must stop the madness of the 'green deal'.
in writing. the war that has been going on for a month has caused inestimable humanitarian losses. it also contributed to the deepening and prolonging of the energy crisis affecting europe. in this critical situation, any suggestion or idea has a lot of weight and therefore pays particular attention to the european commission's repowereu initiative. we must protect all european citizens from the effects of soaring energy prices. it is unacceptable that the people pay the price of war. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has finally recognised that the most effective way to achieve this objective is through an official price regime following the pattern of the hungarian reduction in resizes. instead of left-wing fanatics, especially now, we need stable, well-functioning measures. in addition to protecting civilians, strategic calm and foresight are needed now. i therefore consider the commission's proposal on the mandatory minimum level of filling of natural gas storage tanks to be considered. we need to avoid the energy price explosion we experienced in december and january, and we need to start preparing for the next winter now. finally, we must not allow irresponsible proposals that would jeopardise europe's energy supply and bring the continent to the brink of war. it's risky, we have to stay out of this war. we need to keep our societies and economies running, and that requires all reliable european energy sources, including nuclear energy.
in writing. in the face of russia's brutal aggression against ukraine, energy independence and security of supply must be one of our top priorities. i have no doubt that cutting off russia's revenues from the gas, oil and coal that fund its war machine is a matter of the utmost importance. however, we must also balance the consequences of these actions, which have an impact on high energy prices and pose a real threat to the functioning of european businesses and contribute to energy poverty in households. we must therefore use all the means at our disposal to make the most of all possible sources of energy, to become completely independent of russian supplies as soon as possible. in this context, i welcomed the proposal for the repowereu programme, which not only pledges a significant reduction in imports from russia by the end of this year, but also proposes a solution to the problem of rising energy prices for consumers and obliges member states to replenish gas stocks before the coming winter.
written. the russian invasion of ukraine marks a new chapter in the history of europe. it is clear that security changes in our immediate environment dictate the reform of our energy policy. in my view, diversifying supply routes and focusing on renewable energy sources must help us to ensure two main objectives: (1) security of supply and (2) stable, affordable and competitive prices for both consumers and european businesses. for too long, the profits have been privatized, while the taxpayers have borne the risks. this crisis offers us an opportunity to move towards a fairer energy union in which the right to clean and affordable energy is guaranteed to every european citizen. replacing two-thirds of russia's imported gas in less than 10 months will not be a small task. increasing lng imports will result in significant costs for all energy consumers, so we must be careful not to replace one dependency with a new and much more expensive one. the success of the plan will ultimately depend on two factors: on the one hand, the political will to mobilise significant investments in interconnections, renewable energy sources and clean technologies, and on the other hand, the necessary regulatory decisions to prepare well for the next winter to be taken in a very short time.
in writing. europe has had a naive energy policy for years. the rashness of the actions and the deepening of the dependence on the supply of raw materials from russia was an unforgivable strategic mistake. the long-term energy security of our continent has been neglected. the nord stream 2 project is a prime example of this approach, which was pushed through despite the legitimate objections of many member states. i'm glad we're finally making a decisive change of direction and moving on. i only regret that it was only after russia invaded ukraine that some people were able to see things clearly. dependence on russian energy supplies is now a top priority. in the short term, to increase economic pressure on russia, and in the long term, to ensure europe's energy security. joint action cannot be limited to focusing on renewable energy the need for a rational, realistic and multi-dimensional approach. we need to combine the development of renewable energy with the development of infrastructure that will allow supplies from other countries (i would like to point out here, for example, the baltic gas pipeline) and with a strategic approach to our own extraction of raw materials. supporting citizens and businesses is also absolutely fundamental. the war on the eastern border of the european union has already affected energy prices, and it's only been a month since the day of the invasion. if we don't take the right steps to diversify our supply of raw materials, stockpile, strengthen our energy independence and limit the rise in retail prices, things will look very bad before the next winter.
in writing. following the russian invasion of ukraine, the european union has worked to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated alarming price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply. the socialists in parliament argue for the need for solutions to tackle rising energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. the union must act now, in a united and coordinated way, to curb the price escalation that is weighing down the economy of citizens and businesses. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia. in this respect, spain can play a very important role in diversification, as it has a large lng (liquified natural gas) infrastructure, including around 30% of the union's regasification capacity. but to take advantage of these existing energy infrastructures, the union needs to increase energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france.
in writing. member states must actively develop their energy supplies and networks, and russia must be brought to zero, since the eu's security depends heavily on it. it is important to develop alternative energy sources and to increase financing for renewable energy. it is also unacceptable to start paying for gas in russian rubles. we have to find gas reserves for estonia again next year, hopefully with the finnish and swedish partners.
the european union guidelines, implemented by governments that have liberalized and privatised the energy sector, imply the maintenance of oligopolistic markets in which electricity prices are cartelled and where the methodologies adopted guarantee outrageous profits, with huge differences between production costs and consumer prices. the creation and operation of a carbon market with derived products to be traded on a speculative exchange contributes to the worsening of prices and the european union has responsibilities in the current situation. the measures previously proposed by the european commission are based solely on subsidising consumers, i.e. indirectly on the profits that the oligopolies in the sector continue to reap. we have to question profits, rents and margins to ensure that prices are kept down. concrete measures are needed to ensure that consumer prices reflect production costs, and to tackle once and for all the colossal profits that the operation of a highly oligopolistic market allows. and it is imperative that the liberalisation of the sector be reversed by ensuring public control. it's reality that demands it!
madam president, the sixth assessment report of the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change shows the world how the average temperature of the planet has already risen by 1.1 degrees and is affecting natural and human systems in europe. since the last assessment, the impacts of climate change have increased, resulting in losses in agricultural production, infrastructure or water scarcity. but what it brings back does not soothe, but rather causes anxiety and worry. europe is warming faster than the rest of the planet and will continue to do so, and southern europe will be hit hardest. the fit for 55 package must be implemented and look at the issue of adaptation as central from now on. i cannot, however, address this house without mentioning the russian invasion and barbarism in ukraine, which have, in addition to all the human suffering, caused additional problems of two different orders: food shortages and economic losses, the channelling of resources to the military effort and the blocking of diplomatic advances. ladies and gentlemen, this is not the time to look back before we leave behind any doubts or indecisions. what i'm asking you is that we don't go down in history for lack of courage.
madam president, the latest ipcc report confirms the climate emergency we're going through. it also confirms that without dramatic emission reductions, we will quickly reach tipping points. it also confirms the inadequacy of our current mitigation measures and that adaptation measures are needed to address the risks and harms already caused by climate change. proof of this was the intense drought we experienced in portugal earlier this year, which affected our agriculture, biodiversity and water supply. so we need more. we need to step up our climate efforts. we need more ambition, especially in the fit for 55 legislative package. and we also need more funding. because we all have a right to a sustainable environment and we must fight for it. protecting our own and future generations must be part of this plan.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the left will obviously support whatever sense of urgency there is, and that exists with the citizens, to put an end to the obscene reality of having some of the largest and most profitable companies in the world paying little or no tax. but what we are promised is a tax on multinational corporations that will be fair, fairly distributed and effective. and the proposal we have on the table is none of those things. it will not be a tax on multinationals, but a tax on a small fraction of multinational companies. it won't be effective because it's full of exclusions, deductions and exceptions. it will not be fair, because it is a much lower rate than that which is practised in most countries and for most companies. and it will not be fairly distributed, because the developed world has tried to keep for itself the lion's share of the revenue from this new tax. we therefore have a lot of urgency, but also a lot to improve on this proposal.
the report on the future of fisheries in the english channel, the north sea, the irish sea and the atlantic ocean in the light of the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union was unanimously adopted by the committee on fisheries, a consensus which underlines the importance of the subject for the whole of the union's fishing industry. i am grateful for the cooperation of all the shadow rapporteurs: francisco millán mon, jan huitema, caroline roose, france jamet, bert-jan ruissen and joão pimenta lopes. this is the first time that the european parliament has looked at how the trade and cooperation agreement, which was signed between the union and the united kingdom, is being implemented, in one of the sectors that has been most affected. the agreement set out a set of conditions and rules for both parties. however, it is clear that some issues relating to fisheries, in particular access for eu vessels to british waters, have not been fully clarified. this has led to various interpretations. the uk has taken advantage of the ambiguity of certain provisions of the agreement to make interpretations which i consider to be abusive. the result is protectionist measures that limit fishing licences for eu vessels, creating unrest in fishing communities, creating uncertainty, causing serious damage and fostering a climate of conflict that benefits no one and should be prevented. we need an attitude of cooperation and loyalty from all sides. we therefore call on the united kingdom to refrain from protectionist action and to promote a better neighbourhood in order to ensure stable and predictable conditions for fishermen. we urge the european commission to consider all options to guarantee the rights of union fishermen, including limiting access to union ports for uk vessels or even restricting the import of fishery products, measures which, while considered extreme, should not be dismissed as they may be, at best, a necessary tool for the protection of european fishermen. we believe that the european commission should work with all coastal states on appropriate solutions for better control and the adoption of fisheries management measures in accordance with the common fisheries policy and the european ecological pact. the brutal invasion of ukraine by russia makes it all the more necessary for all the states of europe to understand each other, whether they belong to the union or not. this has been possible in several strategic areas and should also be the case in fisheries. fisheries resources are a common good and fishery products are essential for our food security. the report sets out four guidelines for finding solutions to the problems caused by brexit. first, relations and the future of fisheries in this area will have to be based on good international governance of the oceans and on good neighbourly, peaceful and cooperative relations with all concerned. secondly, the use of this area should be based on fisheries management principles and long-term environmental, social and economic sustainability, based on the best scientific knowledge. the commission has already established that the aid granted to the fisheries sector is compatible with the internal market. they should be extended and the period of application should at least coincide with the transitional period established: 30 june 2026. fourthly, the specialised committee on fisheries, which monitors the implementation of the agreement in the various sectors, should be fully operational and react in a timely manner to the situations identified. for all these reasons, and because the fisheries sector needs it, i hope that this report will be adopted very strongly by the european parliament.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the union fisheries sector has courageously remained in business during the most difficult periods of the covid-19 pandemic. it is now facing at the same time the consequences of brexit, with the scale that has become clear here and the impact of the brutal increase in fuel. it is a sector which must deserve the solidarity and support of the union. it is imperative that this sector feels and knows that it has not been left to its own devices. following this debate, i would like to stress that it is crucial - i am of course pleased, commissioner, that the specialised committee on fisheries is now operational - but it is also crucial that the european parliament is involved in this activity by having observers from the committee on fisheries present at its meetings. this transparency effort will have enormous benefits in terms of effectiveness and involvement of the whole sector in the union. i would also like to stress a theme that has been raised here: the importance of relations with other third countries, in particular norway, iceland and the faroe islands, which, under the pretext of brexit, have been taking unilateral decisions that are putting ancestral balances in question. one example is the loss of the cod quota in svalbard, which has had a significant impact on several member states and particularly on my country, portugal, where cod is the main national dish, as some of you will know. i also want to stress that the issue of the brexit adjustment reserve has to be discussed again. the funds are not sufficient for fisheries and do not provide for compensation until the end of the transitional period and i would like to have clarification from the commission on this matter. in all this brexit and its collateral disruptions, the commission has the solidarity of the european parliament. of course we must go along the path of dialogue, cooperation, concertation and peace, but at the same time parliament calls on the european commission to be vigilant and to respond in a proportionate and appropriate way to the problems that are being identified. this is essential for the sector and we have seen with great concern that this is not always the case on the uk side. we hope that the recommendations of this report of the european parliament, which i have no doubt will be adopted by a large majority, corresponding to the unanimity it has achieved in the committee on fisheries, will be accepted by the european commission. the european fishermen, their hard work and indomitable work deserve this.
mr president, i am here to talk about the outermost regions, which represent 80% of the potential of biodiversity in the european union. to tackle climate and biodiversity emergencies, it is imperative that we take a holistic approach that values and protects our natural resources. protecting and restoring our ecosystems will benefit our planet, but also, in particular, certain sectors, namely agriculture, fisheries, forestry and others. i am therefore disappointed to see that the proposed nature recovery bill, which was due to be tabled at the end of march, has been delayed. i call for this proposal to be presented as soon as possible with ambitious targets and with particular regard to the specificities of the outermost regions. only then will we ensure sustainable development and a decent future for all generations.
mr president, the rising cost of living that workers and the people are feeling in an alarming way is one of the biggest problems facing my country. if, on the one hand, firm and urgent measures are needed to curb the rise in prices of essential goods, such as foodstuffs, on the other hand, it is important to value wages so that workers do not pay the bill of inflation with their own wages. and in this context it is particularly important to increase the productive capacity of each country to ensure the supply of food, reducing external dependence, avoiding food shortages and curbing speculative price increases. for example, it is necessary to promote cereal production and improve the functioning of the food chain in order to ensure fair prices for production. only by increasing the capacity to produce the food that the population needs, to store and to access food commodities, can we combat the enormous imbalances in our food balance. that's what we're committed to.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, we have argued that the development of energy infrastructure should be in line with national energy plans and should contribute to the existence of a public service of quality energy supply at fair prices and accessible to all. the present situation is characterized by the escalation of sanctions which are harmful to all peoples and by speculative prices which weigh heavily on the pockets of citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises. the so-called temporary derogation granted to portugal and spain leaves untouched aspects such as the liberalisation, privatisation and segmentation of the sector or the pricing methodology in wholesale markets which is responsible for outrageous differentials between production costs and consumer prices. even the timid measures of market regulation which they now dare to contemplate could and should have been taken long ago. public and democratic control of the energy sector is the only way to ensure an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable sector, ensuring stability and security of supply.
member of the commission. – madam president, first, i would like to thank nicolae ștefănuță for his draft guidelines for the 2023 budget. the 2023 budget will be the third of the current multiannual financial framework (mff) but it will be a budget to be negotiated and adopted in a completely different geopolitical situation, and he has referred with a lot of examples to this. we are more than a month into the russian war against ukraine. what we see in the news every day is a human tragedy beyond any description. the direct consequences are large and we see unprecedented streams of refugees seeking safety in the union and the potential economic downturn on the global scale. this will inevitably influence our work, including the implementation of the current budget and preparation of next year’s budget. high inflation and persistent uncertainty and risk mean that we all must remain vigilant and cautious. next year’s budget comes at a very challenging time for the union. the russian military aggression in ukraine represents a massive challenge and its evolution is impossible to predict. we cannot commit all our budgetary resources at this stage. we need to keep flexibilities in reserve to continue to react to changing circumstances. at the same time, we must ensure adequate resources for existing priorities, to continue work on long-term projects, notably the recovery from the pandemic and the green and digital transitions. we need to see how we can further accelerate these priorities. against this background, we should collectively see to what extent we can concentrate on a limited number of issues where there can be a real impact. this and next year, more than ever, we need to avoid diluting our budgetary impact by pursuing limited reinforcements across many budget lines. i can assure you that the commission will try to focus the draft budget on the most effective and efficient use of our definitely limited resources. inflation is currently very high and it’s an open question how quickly it will return to more normal levels. this will affect overall salary related expenditure, other indexed expenditure, such as rent, as well as energy bills, both in 2022 and also next year. this will have a major impact on heading 7, where resources are already quite limited. i would therefore urge all institutions to exercise restraint and where new challenges emerge, like on cybersecurity, to look at possibilities for further interinstitutional cooperation. let me now turn to our next steps. in the first trilogue last week, we agreed on the calendar for the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2023. the commission aims to adopt the commission’s statement of estimates at the beginning of june and deliver the full draft budget in all language versions at the beginning of july. today’s debate should increase our mutual understanding and facilitate progress towards a common approach. in this difficult and unprecedented geopolitical situation we need to maintain our flexibility to respond to new developments. our three institutions succeeded over the past years in agreeing on many groundbreaking files that have changed the union’s budgetary and financial landscape. so i trust that with cooperation, dialogue and a real ability to compromise, and mutual understanding we will reach a timely agreement on next year’s budget.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the itre committee is concerned. that is the nature of those who are responsible for budgets in committees. but the research framework programme - that is our fear - is increasingly becoming a stone-cold of ambition for everything. i believe that the importance of the research framework programme goes far beyond the subject of research and innovation. we need technology, we need innovation to cope with the transformative power of the energy transition, to maintain competitiveness in europe. and more and more new projects - be it the microchip initiative (welcome) or the satellite issue - are becoming important: the issues of energy transition. but these are all topics that are not funded. and our concern is that we continue to be a stone's throw from ambition. and i want to make it clear once again: we will insist that we cannot agree to such projects without a commitment to unblocking and without a commitment to upfrontloading or frontloading. we cannot make a trade-off between what we have decided and the ambitions of our future. either we have more money, or we can't have these ambitions.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. madam president, we cannot talk about the eu budget without the reconstruction of ukraine. the effects of war are not confined to borders. they affect us all. after 40 days of massacres and destruction in bucha, irpin, mariupol, i hope we can all agree on one thing: those who committed them must pay! that's why i proposed the creation of the fund for the reconstruction of ukraine financed from the assets of the putin regime and the oligarchs frozen in all member states. please support this fund. i ask you to urgently adopt the measures necessary for our total energy independence, for food autonomy and for the security of our citizens. as we also strengthen the union's objectives on the environment, transport infrastructure, health and education, we strengthen justice and the rule of law in all member states. the budget of the european union should contain additional support for the republic of moldova, romania and all countries receiving and integrating european citizens on their territory.
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. culture is a national competence and therefore it is difficult to discuss cultural budgets in an eu context. but with the project of the new european bauhaus we have a unique opportunity to use culture to support one of the most important common objectives, one of the most important common european struggles, namely the fight for the climate and the environment. the bauhaus can help make the green transition tangible and attractive to the citizens of europe. this includes architecture, design and green urban development. we can show eu citizens in their everyday lives how the community is fighting climate in an aesthetic, inclusive, sustainable and european way. with culture as a kind of can opener, we are going to create a cultural narrative about one of the most important political issues of our time. but if we are to succeed, the eu must invest in the bauhaus project. and we need more money to get a dedicated project, so this is my request at this stage: let's bet on the bauhaus.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, dear mr commissioner, dear mr rapporteur, dear colleagues, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, i would like to thank you very much for the constructive cooperation on the guidelines for the 2023 budget, section iii. gender equality is a core value of the european union with significant potential for the eu budget that is still not fully used, as even the european court of auditors concluded in its special report recently. the femm committee therefore adopted a comprehensive opinion with several suggestions for the parliament’s guidelines. among them, a strong commitment to gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting in all stages of the budget cycle; the systematic collection, reporting and evaluation of gender—disaggregated data to accompany a new commission methodology to measure gender—relevant expenditure; a call for significant funding for the daphne programme, in particular in the context of the pandemic and gender—based violence; and last but not least, forced investments in public services, care and gender—responsive cohesion policy. besides the general rapporteur, i would also like to thank all of my colleagues in the budget committee that worked on strengthening the text from a gender—equality perspective. i am very much looking forward to our continued cooperation to make the 2023 budget a significant budget from the perspective of gender equality.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. we're closing the first phase of the 2023 budget today. it's never business as usual, there are always some extraordinary circumstances, and now there are more than ever before. the year 2023 will be the last year of the current financial perspective with full freedom for member states to spend money. but it should also be the year of the launch of the partnership agreements, that is, the launch of the new financial perspective, and the full programming of the national recovery plans. there will be new sources of funding, but of course there is a new circumstance, there is a war of unprecedented scale, a humanitarian disaster and a famine, most likely in north africa. we are not able to estimate the financial and budgetary consequences of this disaster that putin has prepared for us, but we all have the impression that our current resources are disproportionate to the needs. of course, the war does not undo the european union's key priorities that we know: the green deal, the digital economy, post-pandemic recovery, but the focus inevitably shifts to broadly defined security, strategic sovereignty, and independence from russian resources. we know from experience that crises are not conducive to the community method. the temptation then arises to conclude ad hoc intergovernmental agreements, and we will therefore all the more ensure that the role of the european parliament as the budgetary authority is properly appreciated and respected in these particular times.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. every euro we put together in the common european basket must reduce the impact of the pandemic and the war in ukraine. that is why our political group has called for the european budget for next year to protect citizens against rising energy and food prices, to finance the sectors affected, especially tourism and agriculture, and the creation of new companies, to support programmes in the fields of innovation, education, health and culture. in this regard, we have integrated the following proposals into the european parliament's common position: additional support for the member states bordering ukraine, but also for the republic of moldova; the implementation of a joint programme to support the elderly; the development of the european medical corps for emergency situations; the creation of a compensation mechanism for the effects of war in order to be able to apply new sanctions against the russian federation; the settlement of the european investment programmes for ukrainian refugees to allow them access to education, health and social services; the financing of investments in the energy sector to reduce dependence on the russian federation. added to this is the need to ensure adequate resources for the protection of the population in emergencies and for international humanitarian action, while preserving our defining democratic values. but new resources are needed to meet these challenges, including by making existing programmes more flexible and extending programmes and implementation periods. it's not enough to just make transfers from existing resources. people expect us to allocate budgetary resources where they're needed and to deliver results quickly. we call on the european commission and the council to accelerate the joint response to today's challenges, ensuring that funds get faster to where they are needed.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, dear johannes hahn, dear colleagues, i would like to congratulate my colleague, nicolae ştefǎnuţǎ, on his excellent work as rapporteur on the 2023 budget guidelines. he recalled the key priorities for our european parliament, and his priorities reflect the demands of the european citizens. first, the recovery of the economy to cope with the consequences of the pandemic, but also the impact of the ukrainian conflict on energy prices and inflation. secondly, a strong union for health. thirdly, actions and investments for the climate and the ecological transition. fourth, more opportunities for young people in the union. fifth, the promotion of the rule of law, european values and their proper application. and finally, a stronger union for its citizens and the rest of the world, in a very tense geopolitical context. allow me, commissioner, to emphasise the application of the budgetary conditionality linked to respect for the rule of law. the protection of the european union's budget is obviously even more crucial at a time when the european union is facing a new crisis and when - as you have pointed out, mr commissioner - the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework are becoming insufficient and therefore limiting. not a penny should go to those who do not respect the rule of law and the budgetary rules, i.e. freedom of expression, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption. we admire and support the generous and constructive approach of the polish people towards ukrainian refugees, but this does not mean that we can turn a blind eye to the polish government and forget the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. we again ask the commission, commissioner, to make full use of all the instruments at its disposal and to apply the cross-compliance regulation without delay to member states which are subject to an article 7 procedure.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, these 2023 guidelines were impacted by the horrific developments in ukraine, and in total support we adapted the text and opened the door to further economic support and to the reconstruction of the country. this collective work was led by ştefănuță, whom i salute. together we were able to reach a balanced text that we can support. this text includes many of my group’s priorities, like climate and biodiversity protection in the eu, but also throughout the world, where europe should lead and fund concrete actions to tackle climate change and to protect the earth’s biodiversity. there are other areas where we achieved a good final text, like gender mainstreaming, rule of law, foreign affairs, humanitarian aid, and a good ambition on the funding of key eu agencies that really need to be supported, like, for example, the european environment agency and the european institute for gender equality. but i would like to however highlight a passage in paragraph 6 that states that the eu should strengthen its energy security and autonomy and develop further the energy union via interconnectivity between member states. although i agree and we agree with this overall principle, we should refrain from using this energy independence needs to once again subsidise the fossil fuels industry, an area that has led us into a very dangerous and sustainable current situation. however, as i stated, this is a good compromise text that will influence the commission to propose a pragmatic draft budget that hopefully will lead to a concrete 2023 budget that is as green, sustainable and powerful as it should be.
madam president, firstly i would like to thank the general rapporteur for the guidelines which he put forward. this year, dear colleagues, more than ever, the european parliament has to be united. we have to be on the side of the values of the free world, being on the side of the people of ukraine, defending freedom, defending democracy, without any doubt. and we have to put the budget of the european union to do exactly what the priorities of the european union are. we should make sure that everyone in need receives adequate funding. we have to make sure that farmers, that small and medium—sized enterprises, that local communities that receive hundreds of thousands of people in need of support from ukraine receive the money. so we have to do two things. firstly to make sure that the money which we decide to allocate reaches the beneficiaries. and second to make sure that we have enough money in each of these pots. this is why, commissioner, let me conclude by saying 2023 should be the year in which the cohesion policy should also be up to speed. we should have also for payments enough money there to be sure that we pay the bills of the european union fast.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, thank you, nicolae ştefănuţă, neither the next generation eu nor the flexibility of the 2021-2027 mff are sufficient for the financial needs generated by russia's aggression against ukraine. the eu must respond on several fronts at the same time, without reversing european political and structural priorities for a greener, more digital, more social europe. the response to refugees, to the supply chains of essential goods and raw materials, to the supply and the brutal rise in energy prices, this response must be european, based on solidarity, it must come from the union budget! flexibility exists and is necessary, but it is not enough. commissioner, we have to start thinking about the revision of the 2021-2027 mff, yes, but the traditional revision is not enough. we need to look at the architecture of the qfp. it is time to equip the european union with the appropriate and agile instruments in the european union's financial framework for these and other future crises so that we are prepared for whatever comes.
madam president, the key message of the european union's 2023 budget is resolve and the protection of our citizens and societies from the effects of the russian invasion of ukraine. the pandemic has taught us that collective action brings results of scale. in the face of soaring energy prices, in the face of rising inflation, price control must be a top priority, along with support for the vulnerable. the wholesale gas price controls proposed by the greek prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis and the revision of the electricity-gas interconnection model should be carefully examined by the commission and the results presented immediately. the european union must be an umbrella for all, based on the rule of law and the application of fundamental principles. instead of orbán now pointing the finger at us, we should have already made a reality of our decision not to finance those who flagrantly violate our principles. because now that authoritarianism is making its appearance in its bloodiest form, it may find other imitators.
madam president, this resolution points the wrong way to the responses that are needed to deal with the persistence of serious socioeconomic asymmetries within the european union, now aggravated by speculative increases in energy and raw materials, with the brutal rise in the cost of living. the people do not need or benefit from more money for security policies and the war industry. the people want peace. what is required is a reinforcement of the budget, free of any form of conditioning, which responds to the structural and cyclical problems that exist and which increases the funds for economic, social and territorial cohesion, for agriculture and fisheries or industrial development and modernisation, support for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, defending the incomes of workers and families. support is needed, particularly for the productive sectors, in particular small and medium-sized agricultural producers, to respond to the drought situation, to the increase in production costs and to promote national production, reducing external dependence and guaranteeing the food sovereignty of each state. (the speaker refuses to answer a question by mr francisco guerreiro.)
i see that a 'blue card' has been raised by mr francisco guerreiro. are you prepared to accept this 'blue card', mr pimenta? the answer is no, and that does not mean that this 'blue card' can be given. i would therefore ask mr francisco guerreiro if he would like to make a statement, because a statement is possible for 30 seconds, no question.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, it is curious that my colleague from the portuguese communist party has not agreed to answer a question and, once again, on a matter as important as the 2020-2023 budget. there was not a single word of condemnation of the russian federation's invasion of ukraine, and so once again we see here the position of the portuguese communist party in whitewashing an invasion that has been going on for over a month and using other arguments to try to whitewash this invasion. it is a regrettable act, but one which, unfortunately, did not even merit a reply from my colleague.
mr president, the strategic compass is not a closed and absolutely detailed document. it would be impossible given its duration and at a time when we are faced with a very serious question about our future in the field of security and defence. however, there is one proposal that has raised some questions in the military circles and even in public opinion, and it is related to the rapid projection force that is provided for in this strategic compass. i would like to ask you, mr high representative, what mechanisms you have in place to make this rapid deployment force an instrument for all member states and not just a few. this is an issue that has been raised by our electorate and i would like to see it clarified here.
mr high representative, mission determines strength, and we have seen, within our security and defence policy, that our missions in scenarios such as africa, mali, the central african republic, face serious challenges posed by russian intervention, particularly by using a private company, wagner. and i would like to know how this scenario we are living through, the invasion of ukraine by russia, could influence our presence in these territories and the redesign of our missions in these territories.
madam president, a good 200 days ago – the last day that afghani teenage girls packed their bags and went to school – the taliban erased half the population from public life. today they are holding afghanistan’s entire population hostage as 20 million afghans face acute hunger. all they care about is repressing afghans, brave women and girls for cynical political aims. we must never recognise this totalitarian taliban regime. any practical engagement must be made conditional on the free participation of women and girls in all aspects of society. i applaud the commission for helping vulnerable afghans directly and for setting up the world afghan women leaders forum. but i call on the member states to do more, much more: resettlement of the most endangered afghans, more direct aid. just like ukrainians, just like us, afghanistan’s people deserve freedom, democracy and the chance to simply live and pursue dreams and a dignified life. let afghan girls learn!
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the taliban takeover has set back women's rights in afghanistan by 20 years. girls and women are excluded from participating in social and economic life, and they are denied access to education. girls over the age of 11 are forced into forced marriages, forced labor, sexually exploited. unfortunately, they also have limited access to health care. they can only move in public with a male relative. they're being subjected to strict dress codes. and all of this contributes to the impoverishment of women. afghanistan is facing famine today. this hunger particularly affects women. the situation in ukraine, with the war, will only make the famine worse. we need dedicated support programs. the women of afghanistan need to know that the european union will not leave them. we need to rethink our policies and think about how we can actually help.
madam president, women and girls are a particular target of the taliban and their outright reaction. they are denied the right to work, to individual expression, to autonomy, to divorce, and the right to education. attacks on women are a structural attack on afghanistan's development, but they did not begin when, in august last year, the taliban took power from the void left behind after 40 years of interference and aggression by the united states of america and its allies, 20 of which were invasion and occupation. the path to equality for afghan women began to be denied when, some 40 years ago, the united states and its allies funded and armed the most backward and obscurantist forces to attack the democratic republic of afghanistan. we express our solidarity with the afghan people in the firm conviction that it is up to the afghan people, and in particular the afghan women, to solve their problems and to pursue their development without outside interference.
mr president, is dialogue and the search for understanding between the european union and china important in building responses to global challenges? yes, but unfortunately, regarding last week's summit, regarding sanctions following russia's invasion of ukraine, a crucial issue, we only had a two-way monologue. so far, we have received nothing but a pro-peace statement from china. we're clear on that. however, the summit resulted in the announcement of the relaunch of the human rights dialogue. i therefore hope that the european union will be clear and firm on china's violation of human rights, the persecution of exiled activists, tibet, xinjiang, hong kong, macau, the breach of the 'one country, two systems' principle and on taiwan. and i would like to hear from the high representative what is expected of this dialogue.
madam president, the measures on energy issues announced by the council leave untouched the essential aspects of the energy market, including the pricing methodology on wholesale markets, which is responsible for the brutal differences between production costs and consumer prices, ensuring huge profit margins for private oligopolistic groups. the current situation highlights not only the need to regain public control of strategic sectors such as energy, but also to promote national production by reducing production deficits and the external dependence of states. the adoption of the so-called strategic compass shapes the militaristic path which the european union insists on pursuing, a path which absorbs increasing resources for this militaristic drift, while resources are lacking in combating the deficits in production, energy, food, technology and democracy, in fully financing public services, in combating poverty, injustices and social inequalities. this is a path which will not bring greater security to europe, but will bring greater risks. the escalation of arms and the policy of sanctions do not serve the interests of the peoples nor the necessary path to peace.
madam president, this act will unlock the potential of data. it is so important to do so, but we must also protect individual rights and that’s the balance that this act will facilitate. we need to establish structures within which you can share data, both personal and non—personal. data has a real value and not just a monetary value, but a value in that it can solve problems and the challenges in medicine, in health care, in industry, in tackling climate change and in delivering better and more effective public services. and trust is so important – trust from our citizens that their identities would be protected and that the data will be used in an effort to further enhance society’s needs. and that trust will come from the legal certainty that this act brings, from the data innovation board and the safe transfer of data across borders. make data sharing easier and remove the silos, and make it available to individual sectors. as a member of the recent beca committee, that recently produced its report on the healthcare area and on tackling cancer, the need to have access to data and to share data in a de-anonymised fashion came up time and time again, and that’s reflected in the report. so, this is a positive step for that sector, and i think it’s an act that we can all be proud of.
madam president, the proposal raised raises a number of doubts and concerns which do not allow us to follow it. i'm just listing a few that are not properly safeguarded. the ongoing digitisation of administrative law and the subsequent development of interoperability of systems, allowing the interconnection of databases with open access or with different levels of access, may constitute a risk associated with the concentration of data that should generally be avoided, which may compromise the right to the protection of personal data. the sharing of data between companies for remuneration, in a mercantilist logic of personal data, is contrary to the principle of looking at personal data as an extension of the human personality, subtracted from any forms of marketing, which aims to legitimize practices that are now illegal and legally void. the necessary assurance of consent in any communication of personal data should be exercised with due care and the introduction of a purported personal data sharing intermediary raises reasonable doubts as to its independence and civil liability. it is the preservation of the interest of the individual, not of the large multinationals, that should guide these initiatives.
for the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, i would first like to thank the chairman of the itre committee and the shadow rapporteur of our group, ms susan solís pérez, for the excellent work they have done in drafting this important resolution. a resolution that will define how we will approach cooperation with third countries in research and innovation in a changing world. i have absolutely no doubt that we must be open to each other, rely on scientific progress and respect fundamental values. only then will the whole society benefit. the last two years have taught us that when we combine talent and expertise, we can do incredible things. one example that speaks for all of us is the joining forces in the fight against the covid-19 pandemic. what science and industry have achieved together in the quest to save humanity is something that will be written in the history books forever. moreover, the final word is certainly not yet in these areas, and further successes will follow. the last two months have taught us that we can't do without alliances with trusted partners. we need to further develop and strengthen this cooperation in all key areas such as health, climate change, digitalisation, food security, etc. research and innovation will certainly play a crucial role in this. at this point i cannot help appealing to the commission. europe needs to work with the uk and switzerland. the former is one of the most frequent partners in scientific projects, while the latter is considered a pioneer in the field of quantum technologies. finally, smes play an important role in international cooperation, proving today and every day how resilient they are and how they can respond quickly to new initiatives through innovation and flexibility. there's nothing more to say. i can only urge the commission to look for even better and, in particular, easier ways for smes and start-ups to be more involved in the opportunities that international cooperation in research and innovation offers us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, strengthening cooperation in research and innovation worldwide is essential in tackling together global challenges such as climate change, delivering innovative solutions to them, and fostering societal progress on a global scale. reinforcing the eu’s leading role in this field is therefore a key dimension to our international action. while joining forces with key non-eu partners with a strong r and i base – we have to join forces with them – but also at the same time we need to scale up cooperation with other partners that maybe don’t have such a strong base, but where research and innovation has a huge potential to accelerate sustainable and inclusive development like, for instance, in africa. to do so efficiently, we need to be as open as possible. but this should not apply at all costs. we have to hold fast, as the main necessity, when fundamental values such as academic freedom, research ethics, gender equality or international law provisions are at stake. in that regard, we are witnessing a dangerous trend where academic freedom becomes more endangered. we need further action to counter this tendency, and that is why we are proposing in our resolution that the commission establishes a programme to support fellowships or stays for researchers that are currently at risk. like this, we can tackle attacks to academic freedom while attracting talent into the eu. finally, being open in our global approach to r and i has to be compatible with identifying and preserving our technological and scientific assets that are key to our strategic autonomy.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, we need a global approach to research and innovation and also to strengthen existing cooperation within the european area itself. this debate is linked above all to academic freedom and we understand that this freedom cannot be limited. academic freedom, which is currently under threat in several countries, is essential in a democratic society. science can and should be a tool for peace. there are many positive aspects to the proposal we are going to vote on, such as multilateralism, gender equality, association with the un sustainable development goals, synergies with the ipcc or other international institutions or even a greater emphasis on small and mediumsized enterprises. we believe, however, that the approach to geopolitics or scientific diplomacy should take a different path, one more in line with the wording of the resolution itself. and we need, at all times, to continue to protect the work of researchers, both in their working conditions and their rights, but also in the way they can communicate the results of their research work.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation is one of the most decisive factors in scientific research and innovation: cooperation between scientists, between institutions, between the public and private sectors, and between countries and regions. we have numerous examples of scientific collaboration work on a global scale. to mention just one that has special significance for me, i can mention the development last year of the first malaria vaccine, a process in which the european union was involved through one of the partnerships of the framework programme for science and innovation. however, scientific cooperation cannot be unconditional or unilateral. it is essential that our partners share our principles and objectives. and it is essential that academic freedom is a fact in all countries and regions that collaborate with us. it's the only way we're defending the scientific community. not just ours, but the whole world's. i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the projects involved in horizon europe to consider hosting ukrainian researchers who want to work with us in the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have suffered a great deal during the pandemic. but we've also learned a lot about our lives, the challenges we face, the weaknesses we have, but also the resources we can rely on to overcome these challenges. and above all, i think, at all levels, there is a very strong awareness that has been created in all of us, of how much our lives really depend on research, on science, on the efforts of researchers, of individuals, women and men, sometimes even very young, who apply themselves with the ability to turn these results into applications and to the whole momentum of innovation. it was a strong realization: we have had days when our freedom to move and to act depended on the words of scientists, on what they told us, on what they discovered, on the assurances they gave us. now, we must not forget this role and this and this force that science represents for people's lives. that is why the horizon programme is so important: the commission's proposal is one of the central pillars of our european action. but we must be clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the programme is important and why we as a parliament will support it.
madam president, if we are to talk about research and innovation, we must necessarily talk about its agents, the researchers and their working conditions. many of them are uncertain about the renewal of their research grant, the term of their contract, the outcome of the competition and the financing of a project. what they need is stability in a bond. to publish the results of their research, specialist publishers, who live off the work of these researchers, even ask for payment for the publication of articles. in other words, researchers, often under pressure to evaluate their position, produce science which they publish in scientific papers, which are either given away free of charge or paid for to publishers, who in turn turn turn turn to scientific reviewers free of charge and then sell these papers to other researchers and institutions. we need open access policies and the guarantee that institutions and researchers will not have any kind of cost to publish and access scientific papers, ensuring that it is not the publishers who profit from the scientific work of researchers. a final note: the sharing of scientific knowledge and its application should be in the service of humanity and the well-being, peace and health of peoples, rather than being hindered or even prohibited.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, erika aifan was the last of 20 judges who had to leave guatemala because of a very greasy prosecution system. it starts on social media against judges and judicial officers who deal with anti-corruption and drug trafficking cases, followed by accusations without evidence, which end in arrest warrants, forcing judges to go into exile to avoid being arrested. this system, led by the current prosecutor, whom the guatemalan government is preparing to re-appoint next may, undermines any confidence that might still exist in the separation of powers in guatemala, which risks becoming the country where it is easier to threaten and prosecute judges than to fight corruption. we therefore call on the guatemalan authorities to put an end to these persecutory practices and to restore the citizens' confidence in an independent justice system which is an essential condition of any democracy.
president. - mr president, mr president of the council, i am sorry to hear that mr poettering has not been able to attend the debate on the report. the closure of organizations like memorial is a sad example of this. we call in this resolution for the release of the thousands of people detained following peaceful protests against the war in ukraine, many of whom have been subjected to ill-treatment and other violations of their fundamental rights. we condemn the information blockade launched after the start of the criminal and unjustified invasion of ukraine, reinforcing the pressure on independent media which has already led to the closure and relocation outside russia of many of these media, such as novaya gazeta or echo of moscow. we call on the european union to support all journalists and activists who have been forced to flee putin's russia.
the history of the roma in europe is a traumatic history of persecution, segregation and misunderstanding. in november i took part in a mission of the committee on employment and social rights to investigate the situation of roma camps in slovakia. the horror of what i witnessed there will never leave my memory. thousands of people are treated in an unworthy manner, living in squalid tents, without any comfort or privacy, without drinking water, without conditions to warm themselves and, in some cases, in the vicinity of garbage dumps. the failure to integrate these communities cannot continue to exist outside the scope of the european institutions. these people are deprived of access to healthcare and children are deprived of access to education, which will lead to the perpetuation of intergenerational poverty and extreme social exclusion. although less dramatic, the stigma and exclusion of roma communities is also found in several other european countries, including my own country, portugal. in many cases, roma are treated as second-class citizens, who are excluded from the european values we so much want to proclaim and for whom the european social model is a mirage. many survive as permanent refugees in their own country. the european union and the member states have done something, but we have to do much more, much better and much faster. in the context of the next generation eu and the multiannual financial framework, it is imperative that the commission demands the definition of measures that contribute to the integration of these people at all levels: decent housing, education, health, employment, training. and then it is essential that the implementation of these measures be monitored on the ground. we cannot accept the perpetuation of the stigma against roma communities, which is contrary to the founding values of our union and the principles of humanism. the european union must guarantee dignity to all people.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. it's absolutely incredible for a woman to speak like that in the european parliament. i don't know if you are a mother, but in any case, a woman who says that it means discrimination against others, when roma children can't go to school, can't eat, can't dress, can't access anything. do you consider this discrimination for those of us who have access? it is incredible and i think it is unfair that such a person should represent the citizens of the european union in this parliament. go, madam, and see how these children suffer, how their parents cannot provide for them. they have five, six kids. they must have the same access as any child, regardless of color, regardless of nationality. you should apologize!
there are other requests for blue cards but it is obvious, i think, that other colleagues would also like to raise questions and objections. as chairman, i think that two blue cards are more than enough to put questions to the previous speaker and we will therefore proceed with the list of registered speakers to whom you are also entitled to put questions with a blue card.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, enrolment is a two-way process in a society. there has to be a demand and a desire from every part of society to fit into it. why isn't this happening in the communities we're talking about? there are at least two reasons for this. the first reason is the reluctance of a number of political forces, including this parliament, to lose their electorate to communities that can be easily misled on various issues. but the second, bigger problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the vagueness, the incompleteness and the overlapping of this process with a number of so-called non-governmental organisations which have been absorbing european funds for years and these funds have never reached the people for whom they are intended. can any of you in this room tell me how many tens of hundreds of millions of euros have been spent on the so-called decades, integration and inclusion, who are the organizations that have absorbed them, what have they achieved besides the various festivals of poppies, buddies and i don't know what other crap and where has all this money gone in the end, because it didn't go where it should have gone. this is the main reason why marginalization continues in these communities. nation states have no interest in having marginalized communities on their territory. on the contrary, the interest is where the great corruption is, and the great corruption is hidden precisely in these, otherwise very good stories, in the story everyone is fighting, everyone is very active, but in practice they organize fake events, under a false flag. and in the end, the people who are going to get the money don't get it. and here they continue to speak hypocritically on this subject.
mr president, for centuries the roma communities have been victims of racism, xenophobia, prejudice and stereotypes. the history of europe is marked by persecution and discrimination against roma communities, by hostility and expressions of hatred in public and political discourse against these communities. from the inquisition to nazi-fascism to the present day, there are too many examples of the marginalization of roma and the poor socioeconomic conditions in which many of them live. the situation for roma women is even more difficult, as they are victims of multiple discrimination in access to employment, education, health, social services and are restricted in their decision-making. national strategies, framed within a common european framework, continue to prove ineffective. it is urgent to put an end to the policies that perpetuate the condition and persecution of roma communities, and to implement policies that dignify and defend the rights of roma communities. developing community programmes, which strengthen social relations with the roma community and the schooling of children and young people, is one way to do this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mr president, at the end of the day i want to thank my colleague for his disgusting speech. because this speech really shows how we have a job to do to fight racism and inhumanity, because that's what it's all about. what is at issue is that a member of this parliament treats european citizens as if they were garbage, as if they were second-class citizens. i am sorry, mr president, but that is the language of prejudice and ignorance, a language that has no place in this space which is intended to preserve european values.
madam president, i think this debate is marked by its usefulness and its urgency. what we have seen here in the european parliament today is disgusting. it is disgusting that there is a political group which uses the european parliament's stage to discriminate against european citizens and it is clear that this political group must continue to be isolated in this european parliament because it does not represent european values. european values require respect for the human dignity of all, and we owe the roma communities a debt and we must pay that debt. and i call on the commissioner to take stronger action by the european institutions to include the roma community, which cannot continue to be excluded after so many decades.
madam president, commissioner, the importance of repair has become so evident that even some of the largest manufacturers have changed their course in this direction. microsoft, apple, samsung, are three brands that have in common recently launched programmes to allow third parties or their own users to repair several of their products. the opinion of the european citizens is clear. according to the eurobarometer, 77% of consumers would rather repair their products than replace them. however, this right will not be realized by the work and grace of the holy spirit, but only if there is coordinated action in various fields, the literacy of users, the encouragement of independent repairers, the standardization and transparency in the production of the various products and a framework that promotes understanding among all. that is why this parliament's position is of the utmost importance. more than an abstract wish for a new right, it is a real roadmap for materializing the right to reparation in concrete actions in the name of sustainability, stimulating local economies and the possibility of keeping with us objects that we are used to and that we love so much.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, in the european union, mental health problems affect more than 80 million people and suicide is the second leading cause of death among young people aged 15 to 29. mental health is therefore a problem of the present that irreversibly jeopardises the future of the union. while the data show some improvements in the updating of mental health legislation in the different member states, the levels of implementation still leave much to be desired. there is therefore a need today to improve access to mental health services in the community and to invest in the development of multi-sectoral policies that recognise the multi-factorial nature of mental illness. we need standardized data collection, health services that address mental health issues, and policies based on the best scientific evidence. it is also, above all, essential to combat the stigma and social and occupational exclusion of all those suffering from mental illness. and covid-19 has brought even more urgency to this issue, we know. and as my colleague mentioned earlier, the global prevalence of anxiety and depression has increased by 25 percent from pre-pandemic data. during the pandemic, services were disrupted, telemedicine has in some cases accentuated pre-existing digital inequalities and made access to health difficult. it is urgent to reduce these inequalities. president, i'm finished. it's been over 40 seconds since i started the intervention and one person has already died by suicide and 20 have attempted it. these are the statistics. we must do more urgently. we need to do better.
mr president, guaranteeing the right to mental health presupposes the regulation of the activities of companies and the existence of public services for monitoring working conditions and health, which have unfortunately been somewhat weakened throughout europe. but it also requires a return to a paradigm of protection of labour rights that prevents situations of precariousness, abuse, arbitrariness and violence in the workplace. and we're not all on the same page. the same right which defended the deregulation of labour relations, the same right which defended the deregulation of working hours, the same right which opposes and continues to oppose a directive on the right to dismiss, the same right which defended austerity policies and the privatisation of public services, in particular public health services, is here today crying crocodile tears with the consequences of these policies on the mental health of so many workers in so many countries in europe. we don't need any crocodile tears.
madam president, commissioner, if we have any doubts about the importance of this report, we can look to the eurobarometer. january this year: 55% of europeans believe that voting in the european elections is the most effective way to make their voices heard. march 2021: 19% of europeans against transnational lists, 42% in favour, 69% want to decide in the european elections who should chair the european commission. we have systematically called for more transparency, more democracy, more power of citizen participation. the european parliament's proposals in this report are exactly in that direction. we are not in doubt about the challenges for the member states in taking these principles into their own hands, but we have to go down this road. this report makes a successful effort to respond to problems identified five years ago. secondly, not to weaken the representation of small and mediumsized member states and to ensure gender balance. i therefore call for a vote in favour of the report, the transnational lists and the transparency process.
madam president, organic farming can play an important role in mitigating the effects of climate change and restoring biodiversity. we advocate a short supply chain approach, not market-driven, but subject to people's food needs and their ability to produce the food they need. the quotas of agricultural land under organic production vary significantly across the european union and there is no single agricultural model that suits all countries and regions. it is therefore important that national or regional organic farming strategies promoted by member states respond to their needs and the objective of ensuring food sovereignty and that those strategies ensure appropriate support for farmers, in particular small and medium-sized farmers. we also call for the classification of organic salt, which should only be classified as such when it is produced by natural processes, without additives or carbon emissions in its production, which are characteristic of the production of sea salt.
mr president, i want to raise an issue that is of some concern for fishing and coastal communities in my constituency. recently, a dispute arose between fishermen and fish producers with the statutory sea fisheries protection agency (sfpa) at killybegs in donegal, where two fishing vessels were blocked and so forced to land their catch in derry, for an hour’s drive back to killybegs rather than allow fish for human consumption become fishmeal. it has now emerged that the sfpa sent a letter to fish processors in killybegs to inform them that their in-factory weigh permits have been removed on the basis that, and i quote, ‘the sfpa remains of the view that the landing took place outside of ireland’. well let me reassure you, derry is very much in ireland, and i question the sfpa’s decision and i question whether it is in keeping with the irish protocol, and i again call upon them to liaise with relevant stakeholders to find a solution that maintains the spirit of the irish protocol and protects our already hard-hit fishing and coastal communities.
mr president, six years in a lithuanian prison for investigative journalism. yes, that is sentence of the first instance court sentence to algirdas paleckis, an outstanding journalist and politician. his guilt was to make his investigation into the events of 1991 in vilnius when soviet troops clashed with civilians since he doubted the official version of them. the court of appeal verdict had to be announced today, but was suddenly postponed until friday. i have personally observed several court hearings. the journalist is accused of gathering and passing information about lithuanian judges to russia. however, no documents or files or any other type of information that was allegedly gathered by paleckis was presented to the court. no link to any foreign services was established. the prosecutor claims that paleckis was in contact with an unidentified foreign agent. it is clear political prosecution in the european union member state of lithuania.
mr president, i come to you with deep concern. the mar menor, one of the largest salt lakes in europe, is dying because of the scandalous inaction of the most directly responsible politician: the regional government of murcia. illegal agriculture, which bypasses regulations, continues to pollute the land and groundwater with nutrients that then end up in the mar menor. a new episode of anoxia with thousands of dead fish is expected this summer and the government of the region of murcia does nothing but repeal the rules that protected it. he didn't do anything after the green soup in 2016. he did nothing after thousands of fish died in 2019. and he did nothing when in 2021 the fish that died were counted by the ton. all he does is blame others when it's his competence. even in the european parliament, members were able to check their status in a mission, even though they tried to hide the reality. i ask you to focus on the mar menor, because the death of this jewel is a loss for all of us, for all of europe.
mr president, yesterday, a russian state tv simulated a nuclear attack on ireland and the uk. i don’t want to overstate the nuclear threat, but there is no doubt that the stigma against the use of nuclear weapons in war has been significantly eroded in recent years. and i believe it is time to create a pathway to a world without nuclear weapons. next month, the signatories of the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons meet for the first time since the signing of that treaty in 2017 and its entry into force in 2021. sadly, only a handful of eu member states will attend this meeting in vienna next month, and i think that sends an extremely bad signal at a time of heightened public anxiety about the nuclear threat as a result of russia’s invasion of ukraine. no one, of course, is arguing for unilateral nuclear disarmament, but we can’t wait for an ideal security environment. that is why the first meeting of the states parties of the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons is timely and i urge the member states, the commission and meps to attend this meeting next month.
mr president, yesterday thousands of workers took to the streets to mark international workers' day. they denounced the heavy increase in the cost of living, whether in fuel, energy or foodstuffs. the speculative price increases by the big oil companies, the big distribution groups and other economic groups which are at the root of the escalation of prices of essential goods and services must be tackled once and for all. concrete solutions are needed to the problems of electricity, fuel and gas, to defend the food sovereignty of the states, to increase cereal production, to improve the agri-food chain, to support agricultural production and small-scale fishing and, of course, to increase wages and pensions. if wages are not raised, if the cost of living is not curbed and if we continue to applaud more military spending, sanctions and weapons, the situation will only get worse. the workers and the people who are already paying the bill can count on our intervention in defence of a better life and peace.
mr president, there is no denying the role that a sustainable blue economy can play in the prosperity of the outermost regions of the european union, which, because of their insularity, are particularly dependent on certain activities such as maritime transport and tourism. the protection of the oceans and their marine resources must also be ensured, recognising the potential for biodiversity in the outermost regions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy transition strategy, including the implementation of the union's climate and energy transition strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy transition strategy. decarbonisation also means new opportunities, job creation and new ways of attracting tourism, with the aim of ensuring territorial, social and economic cohesion.
madam president, in the world only about 22% of the artificial intelligence professionals are women. unfortunately, this gender inequality is also reflected here in the european parliament. all the people responsible for this report from the various political groups were men. it must be very important... however, there are a number of women who are interested in this subject, as is seen even in this debate, who have submitted amendments, and fortunately, in its final version, the report recognises the importance of adopting a gender perspective when we talk about artificial intelligence. we have to prevent the data that the algorithms are built on from being biased and discriminatory. but artificial intelligence can also be used to combat this discrimination. for example, artificial intelligence makes it possible to make recruitment processes more objective, basing decisions on pre-defined criteria and reducing the space for subjective analyses that often discriminate against young women because of their risk of becoming pregnant. we need to invest in retraining and upskilling, with a focus on underrepresented groups such as women. the way we use ai has to be based on democratic values and ensure that men and women equally benefit from this technology.
madam president, artificial intelligence, as a representation of the technological and scientific advances we are witnessing, must be put at the service of improving the living conditions of workers and peoples. it must be in the service of peace, development, wealth creation and welfare. but that is not what this report is advocating. on the contrary, it focuses on the sacrosanct market with the aim of putting these advances at the service of the profit of a few, with the increase of exploitation and the deterioration of the living and working conditions of many others. it puts the developments of science in the service of militarism and war rather than peace. we are moving away from this mercantilist and warmongering view and argue that advances in artificial intelligence should promote, in particular, the reduction of working hours without loss of income, the reduction of hardship at work and should be directed at key sectors such as health. we believe that artificial intelligence should contribute to social progress and not be the engine and the alibi for further exploitation and social and labour retrogression.
madam president, the conference on the future of europe was to be the highlight of this parliament's term of office. it has unfortunately been too much ignored by the general public, as it has been stifled both by the pandemic and by the weak involvement of governments and political parties. unfortunately, it has also been affected by a certain desire to limit its content. however, a debate has been launched and it must continue. it is essential for the future of europe. the right of peoples to decide their own future democratically is one of the crucial issues ignored in the conclusions adopted. this question is asked, for example, in catalonia or scotland. it has also been rising dramatically in ukraine in recent weeks. on the digital platform that allowed free expression of citizens, the proposal to discuss a european democratic clarity mechanism to help resolve possible sovereignty conflicts was the second most supported proposal, but it was excluded from the finally published conclusions of the conference. if europe does not have the courage to formulate democratic proposals to resolve sovereignty conflicts, even against the wishes of nostalgic member states of the last century, it risks being affected by serious political crises in the future. we will continue to support such a proposal. europe must make sure that it contributes to the future of all its citizens and also to the future of all the peoples who make up its population by ensuring that they have the opportunity to exercise their right to self-determination, which is a fundamental right. this right cannot be infringed by the veto of the member states. it must be open to all the peoples of europe who so desire.
madam president, i hope we all remember that before the conference started, at the beginning, we committed ourselves to deeply engage in it and also to deliver on its outcome. and now we simply need a good plan to transform its conclusions into a real change. and i have two major takeaways from this unprecedented public dialogue, which might be useful. first, on the value of the process itself, let me say that the more citizens are engaging also emotionally, the more ambitious, courageous and future-oriented were the ideas about the future of europe. one can also say that the long awaited european demos has been born and it must not be lost. i think participatory democracy worked. and my second takeaway is that during this conference, citizens have called for ‘more’ europe. and i read it as a demonstration of the trust and faith in us, as an expectation that the union that was brought closer to them, thanks to the conference, will remain close and caring. the conference, through well-structured, thoughtful conclusions, prepared a core of reform packages. and european institutions, parliament, i hope the commission, madam commissioner, also the council will work now on their implementation. we could see during the last plenary the commitment of all institutions in this regard. the conference, through the way it worked and the conclusions it provided, paved the way towards european convention in the meaning of article 48. and that implies that we need to take the conclusions and start working on potential treaty change content and do what is our right and duty within article 48. so i trust we learned from this conference how to build the future of europe in the most participatory way possible.
madam president, i have attended the conference on the future of europe and citizens have clearly underlined that they want to contribute more to the european project. contrary to what has been said, their ideas and proposals are valuable. and also we have to acknowledge the fact that important parts of them go beyond the current treaty framework. i am particularly happy to see that citizens want the european union to help them get access to quality education and health services and several of our proposals, even of my proposals, have been included in the conclusions. the pandemic and the war in ukraine show that we need a european union that protects its citizens and its member states, and for that it needs the means and the instruments to act by including even a stronger social dimension. we therefore call for a convention and the activation of the procedure for the revision of the treaties according to article 48 of the treaty of the european union. and as a member of the constitutional affairs committee, i support the need to start working on this immediately. dear colleagues, in these uncertain times, we need to revise the treaties in order to build a europe that offers certainty, security and the perspective of a sustainable future for everyone.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the future is made of courage. these 56 pages, these 353 conclusions of the conference have strengths and weaknesses. but they have a strength, and that strength is that they exist and that they have been developed by a lot of people working together. this is the most original idea of the european union. i therefore ask three questions to the representatives of the member states, who unfortunately are not here today, but i ask them nonetheless. firstly, do you want a europe which better protects its citizens in the health sector, for example? secondly, do you want to see europe taken more seriously at international level? thirdly, do you want a more democratic europe, in which this parliament is more powerful, for example with a right of initiative? if you want that, you'll have to agree to changes in contracts, for example in the health sector. without a change in the eu treaties, the eu will have little or no ability to effectively and efficiently combat a pandemic, for example. i come from a border region and i have experienced very strange and almost idiotic situations where one country makes one rule and the other country makes the exact opposite. the fact that unanimity is still necessary in certain policy areas is a major factor in the failure to make progress on very important strategic issues, such as foreign policy or international taxation. these 56 pages give us a very clear mandate: we must now change the treaties on some important points. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank vice president schuich for her commitment and mr. verhofstadt, thank you very much. however, what i would like to draw special attention to is certainly this process that has shown us that it is not always easy for citizens to be interested in these processes and in political issues or direct participation as we have had in the past year. if we manage to bring about change through institutional work on 325 adopted conclusions and if we meet the expectations of citizens, we create the prerequisites for a lasting strengthening of trust in fact in institutions and political processes. i am convinced that this will be one of the most important contributions of the conference on the future of europe and to the future of european democracy. we are aware that our democracy has faced a multitude of challenges in recent years, not only in the union, whether it be the rise of extremism, disinformation, manipulated information or the weakening of the rule of law. at this point, it is important to assess objectively how many proposals we can really adopt in the areas and areas of competence of the european union. i'll conclude: the dynamics of global relations and change are rapid and we cannot look to the past to respond to them because what is in the past we cannot change but these initiatives are a sign that something in the future must be changed.
madam president, i would like to remind you that a similar process was launched some 20 years ago and that it now ends, even in name, with the so-called convention on the future of europe. the result was a so-called european constitution, which enshrined the neoliberal, federalist and militarist policies of the european union and was rejected in referendums. and what has the european union done? he imposed the lisbon treaty against the will of the people. they have now recovered a new convention to insist once again on the deepening of their policies which are in fact at the root of social inequalities, of asymmetries in development between countries or of domination versus dependence within the european union. with the same recipe, the results won't be any different. the answer to the problems of the workers and the people is to break with these policies and to seek a europe which defends sovereignty and democracy, rights, and makes possible alternative paths to the future, justice, progress and peace.
in writing. the historic milestone represented by the conference on the future of europe, unblocked by the portuguese presidency of the council of the eu, has come to an end. it was a process based on the values of this union: democracy, equality, the rule of law and solidarity, which brought together civil society, national parliaments, eu institutions and social partners, and which took on even more meaning with the celebration of the european year of youth in 2022, putting young people at the forefront of building the european project. the need for more coordination, whether political, economic or social, was recognised in order to make europe more resilient to current and future challenges, whether armed conflict, climate change, social inequalities, among others. it is therefore vital to ensure that this conference does not become a historical event and that it has concrete results in european reform, including the convening of a convention to make the necessary changes to the treaties. it is therefore disappointing that the conclusions of the conference have not mentioned anywhere the specific features of the outermost regions, which have a special status in the treaties. it is our responsibility to ensure that we are a europe that reaches out to all and leaves no one behind.
mr president, the war in ukraine and the cyberattacks that preceded and accompany it show the need for europe to increase its capacity to protect critical infrastructure and to respond to such attacks. russia has shown the ability to carry out highly disruptive attacks and genuine disinformation campaigns, causing problems not only for the ukrainian population, but also for the member states of the european union and our democracies. as in the military field, so in cybersecurity the european union needs to create common mechanisms for defence and response to cyberattacks and to deepen the dialogue with our allies. only together, by mobilising the states, public administrations, businesses and experts, will we be able to protect our infrastructure and our model of society. we have to do more and invest more. we can't put it off.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, transport and tourism are two sectors which have been severely affected in the last two years by the pandemic and now by this war in ukraine. as if this were not enough, disruptions in supply chains and the exponential rise in fuel prices are affecting the most vulnerable in particular, and they are also putting at risk the connectivity of the european union, especially links with more remote regions such as the outermost regions, which are also more dependent on transport and tourism for their socioeconomic development. i therefore call on the commission to present measures to be implemented to mitigate all these negative impacts, including a mechanism to make the tourism sector more resilient to future shocks and crises.
mr president, fellow europeans, war is at our gates. europeans are suffering, with fuel prices on the rise, with food prices, particularly bread and other essentials going through the roof. in fact, many europeans are facing difficulties to which we cannot turn our faces in denial. but we need to face the social and economic consequences of this war, not only inside the eu but also in ukraine. we must not just walk or talk the talk. we must do the walk, the walk. we must reinforce our capacity to walk the walk, not just for today, but also for tomorrow. we must not settle for a few good speeches and beautiful words and loads of indignity and social media. we must do what we can do as soon as we can to make sure that something like this does not happen again. we need a legal freeze-and-seize instrument. we need to make russia pay for war reparations to ukraine. and we need that money. we need to help creating an adequate recovery plan to rebuild ukraine’s infrastructure and relaunch ukraine’s economy. we can be divided into many things, and we frequently are. after all, debate and discussion are what a parliament is about. but, dear friends, we cannot be divided about defending europe from autocratic regimes. we shall not be divided about responding to other countries blackmailing us. and we will not be divided about putting european security, solidarity and friendship above anything else. long live europe and long live freedom.
mr president, madam minister, mr vice-president of the european commission, the barbaric war in ukraine, from russia to ukraine, calls for all our solidarity with the ukrainian people, now and in the future. we have therefore adopted a number of sanctions packages which have weakened the russian regime and economy, reducing its ability to fuel the war machine, but which also have an impact on europe and our citizens. in any case, it is a price we europeans are willing to pay for the sake of peace and freedom, and i would like to congratulate the commission, mr vice-president of the european commission, on the new package of sanctions which it is now going to adopt, which is in line with the proposals of this european parliament. we wish we could move faster, but we recognize that the oil embargo is significantly affecting the russian economy and the putin regime. but we also have a clear message to convey to the commission and the other institutions and to the council: the problem is that our ability to stand together in the response to russian aggression also depends on our ability to manage the economic and social consequences here in europe, and as we increase sanctions on russia, we also know that the counter-sanctions and the effect of energy prices in europe affect our economy, affect our citizens, and we want to actually maintain european unity, because it has been a great value in the response to russian aggression, and for that, we have to actually support european citizens and businesses. many good ideas have been put forward here today, and some less good ones, concerning this european response. we must indeed continue to push hard for renewable energy, we must support our companies which are being affected by energy prices, but not the multinationals in the energy sector, which are making obscene profits which should be taxed, and we must certainly support the citizens who are suffering from energy poverty, from the effect of energy poverty, and all those who are supporting the refugees who have come to us. this solidarity here in europe means defending europe, defending the ukrainians, defending the european peoples as well.
mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister, in the european response to the covid crisis, europeans felt that the european union protected them and opened up prospects for them. the creation of the sure or nextgenerationeu programme has made the value and importance of the european union clearly visible, not only in protecting jobs but also in reviving european economies. it is this decision that europeans now expect from the european union in order to respond to the social and economic impacts of war and sanctions on their lives, on the costs of energy, foodstuffs, and in the deepening of a strategic autonomy that creates the necessary instruments. we therefore hope that the european commission will propose the creation of a programme and the corresponding financing for the energy transition and energy autonomy, but also that it will compensate for the increase in energy costs for people and businesses. we look forward to repowereu and we also look forward to the creation of nextgenerationeu 2.0, which ensures that investment starts to take on a permanent character. the new priorities must not be allowed to take second place to the european objectives on climate change and digital transition.
in writing. the trial that led to osman kavala's life sentence will go down in history as one of the clearest examples of political manipulation of a judicial process, against the rule of law, against democracy, against freedom of expression and against the very concept of justice. it is important to denounce, remind and note that the turkish government, with practices like this, is deliberately destroying the possibilities of reopening its eu accession process. we stand in solidarity with osman kavala and his family, as well as with all those who, despite political repression, continue to fight for democracy in turkey.
madam president, unfortunately it is impossible to talk about china without bringing to mind a long list of human rights violations. the systematic and commercial harvesting of organs is another atrocity for which evidence is accumulating and whose victims are generally on death row and prisoners of conscience who often succumb during the organ harvesting operation. a crime against humanity that is being committed against falun gong practitioners, tibetans, uyghurs, muslims and christians, fueling transplant tourism. the european union cannot tolerate such practices. it's your duty to fight them. we must demand an independent investigation into these crimes and practices and a transparent response from china. but we must also do our homework and the european union and the member states must take strong measures to combat this kind of organ trafficking, which is truly illegal and an atrocity that we are all ashamed of.
president, commissioner, in recent years the sael region has seen an increase in insecurity, political instability and violence, threatening regional and international stability. the main victims are the populations. they suffer violence and human rights violations from organisations such as boko haram or al-qaeda, but also from mercenary groups such as the wagner group. the growing presence of the wagner group is not accidental. it is part of a deliberate strategy that the kremlin has been developing for several years to destabilise the various neighbourhoods of the european union, including the sael. the european union cannot continue to stand by passively, not only because of the aggression in ukraine, but because of everything that is happening in our neighbourhood. we need an assertive neighbourhood policy aimed at peace, stability and development in these countries and regions. it's about our safety, our neighbors' safety, and the millions of people who suffer right here on our borders.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, competition policy is one of the pillars underpinning our internal market. free, fair and fair competition is a necessary condition for the integrity of this market, but it is above all the prerequisite for an economy that grows, generates wealth and creates jobs. the last two years have been marked by a pandemic which has required a significant flexibility in our competition policy. recovery time recommends a gradual and proportional return to normal. on the other hand, we cannot ignore what is happening in eastern europe, on the doorstep of our union. recovery time is therefore also a time of resilience, with ambition, rigor and flexibility. i want to highlight the role of technological innovation here. digitalisation is an irreversible trend and the digital transition is an unquestionable priority. competition within the union must become europe's competitiveness. instead of regulating everything by the same standard, we need a specific approach for digital companies, for tech start-ups and for small and medium-sized enterprises that increasingly work online. europe cannot risk missing the innovation train. it must be the europe of the first carriage of the digital revolution that this generation of europeans can and must lead.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the european union's major competition problem is now making itself felt in the pockets of all europeans with the uncontrollable rise in energy prices. the european union did not deal with the energy transition when it had the time and the money. it has pressured the member states, those that could be pressured, to privatize all public energy companies. he regulated the energy market in a way that guaranteed the energy cartel oligopolistic profits. and today it does absolutely nothing to combat those opportunistic profiteers who take advantage of a war to multiply their turnover, and this is the same commission that persecutes any state that pursues a public industrial policy, including those aimed at promoting the energy transition that the european commission talks about so much and does so little about.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, russia is not only waging a war against ukraine; russia is waging war against women. there are increasing and credible reports of russian soldiers raping women, women and girls as young as ten and as old as 78 – rape as a weapon of war, violating women’s bodies to break the spirit of people. rape is a crime against women, a war crime, a crime against humanity. so i welcome the resolution of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality condemning sexual violence. you ask, how can we investigate these crimes? i say we must leave no stone unturned to punish the perpetrators. the eu supports investigations by the ukrainian authorities, by the member states and the international criminal court. eurojust has opened a case and supports a joint investigation team together with ukraine. we propose to boost eurojust’s capabilities to handle evidence of war crimes. you ask, how can we support victims of rape? i say, we must do everything in our power to help the victims. can you just imagine the trauma? russian soldiers come into your yard. they kill your husband who tries to protect you and they rape you one after the other. they invade your country. they invade your home. they invade your body. the temporary protection directive is very clear. member states need to provide medical help, also psychological help. and can you imagine you are pregnant by your rapist? like nine out of the 25 women systematically raped in a basement in bucha. let me tell you something i feel very strongly about: women who suffered rape and sexual violence need to have access to safe abortion and sexual and reproductive health treatments immediately and unconditionally, and any other specialised care they need. that is what i call standing with ukrainian women. with member states, we will donate emergency contraception pills. civil society organisations are doing a fantastic job helping these women, and they deserve our thanks and support. yesterday i had an opportunity to discuss exactly this issue, the topic of how to support women victims of rape in ukraine, with olha stefanishyna, the deputy prime minister of ukraine, and we are discussing how we can also join efforts in this aspect. you also ask, what are we doing to prevent and fight trafficking of women and children? i raised this issue from the first day of the war. a few weeks ago, i presented to this house the decisive action that we are taking. europol has set up a special task force, and yesterday, together with the eu anti—trafficking coordinator diane schmitt, i presented the eu common anti—trafficking plan to the solidarity platform where we coordinate efforts to help refugees. next week, the solidarity platform will endorse this plan to raise awareness, to boost prevention, investigation, prosecution, early identification, and support to victims. you ask, how do we support women once they are safe in europe? i say by putting in practice the temporary protection directive, helping women with health care and housing and schools and with jobs, by helping with child care as outlined in the child guarantee and the strategy on the rights of the child. and with the new eu talent pool pilot initiative to match women’s qualifications and skills with employers across europe. honourable members, when i think of the women of ukraine, i think of the old lady who, on the first day of the war, walked up to a russian soldier twice her size. she gave him some sunflower seeds and said: ‘put these in your pockets so they will grow where you die’. let her strength inspire us to do everything we can to support the amazing women of ukraine.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, once again, war has turned women's bodies into a battlefield. "we will rape you until you have no desire for any other man", "until you have no desire to give birth to new ukrainians" are some of the phrases that the ukrainian ombudsman has pointed out as recurring statements of victims: mothers who have been raped in front of their daughters and daughters who have been raped in front of their mothers. we cannot be mere spectators in this drama. the european union must therefore make it clear that we are not dealing with the collateral damage of war, but with war crimes. and these war crimes must be punished. they must answer to the international criminal court or to special war courts. but we need to gather the evidence necessary to hold the perpetrators accountable for their crimes. i am also grateful for the amendment of eurojust so that it can collect and store this necessary evidence. but we have to do more. all these women have the right to medical services, sexual health, they have the right to a safe abortion. these and the other ukrainian women, of whom more than five million are arriving at our borders, all have rights. we have an obligation to guarantee this portfolio of basic health services. on the other hand, trafficking was already a problem in ukraine. we must do everything possible to ensure that women and girls fleeing war do not end up in the hands of criminal gangs and, let us not forget, of the users and complainants of the sexual services of trafficked persons. thank you very much for your effort, too, madam commissioner.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i want to talk to you about nadia murad. she was a sex slave of isil. she’s a yazidi. she got free and she has become a big champion of women and girls raped in war. she has started something called the murad code, which means that the evidence on these horrible atrocities and war crimes – crimes against humanity, the systematic use of rape as a war weapon – must be collected as early as possible, because otherwise it becomes very difficult. so i would very much hope that eurojust and other eu—related bodies would assume this strategy in fighting against impunity for these crimes. i also wanted to mention that we need to see how the command chain can be proven, but we did see that president putin actually decorated those troops that had been known to have committed these atrocities against women and girls in ukraine. so perhaps here we have evidence of a very high—level command chain, which would be necessary to prove to bring the real perpetrators and commanders to justice.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is sad that, in the face of a tragedy of such proportions, in the face of an unjustifiable military invasion, there are those who take the opportunity to sow discord. it's heartbreaking to see families fall apart, mothers with their children who don't know if they'll ever meet their husbands again. ukrainians are giving their lives for their own, for their homeland. man has again shown a cruelty we thought was over. the evil is evident these days with degrading violence, rape as a weapon of war, mafia profiting from human trafficking, crimes against humanity that must be prosecuted. no action should go unpunished. but at the same time we must unanimously applaud the spirit of hospitality of neighbouring countries, such as poland and hungary, whose christian values have led them to open their homes without hesitation. they deserve international recognition for their humanitarian work and not the unjustified criticism that is being voiced these days. they're mean. they are only concerned about implanting a culture that does not value life, but materializes it, commodifies it, as happens with the promotion of abortion or surrogacy. who is not appalled by the helpless and dangerous situation of these pregnant women and babies in a legal and ethical limbo? life is not an object of caprice or desire.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the reality of war has been with us for over two months. ukraine, exposed to russian aggression, needs full humanitarian assistance, and i am proud to say that i am a member of a country that is helping. and there's no question between us that the most important thing right now is to help. i represent the most vulnerable. i am a member of a minority, but children, women are the most exposed to the insecurity of war. however, i have to say that this report does not accurately portray the vulnerability of the situation of women and children fleeing from ukraine to the eu in the sense that it opens a campaign of war against one or more member states, which are being attacked in turn for political and ideological reasons. by welcoming women into our hospitals every day and helping their children. i am therefore obliged to systematically refute what has been said in the report, because many people have deliberately distorted the facts about hungary. we believe in the sanctity of the family, and in our country, contrary to the claims in the report, emergency contraception is available to anyone within a limited time, but its prescription is medically justified. the law allows abortion for 12 weeks. we're seeing cases at 20 and 24 weeks where we're helping as well. gay communities in this country are not subject to negative discrimination. we welcome all who seek refuge in our country. ukraine needs help now, and hungary is helping. you guys help me.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the war in ukraine has a woman's face. women and children make up nearly 90 percent of the nearly five million refugees. it is women who help in any way they can, taking on the evacuation, protection and maintenance of their families, and who, on an equal footing with men, take up arms and fight on the front lines. women and girls are the most frequent victims of war: they are raped, tortured, killed or deported to the heart of russia. they are also victims of human trafficking. the world sees it and europe sees it. and i think that today, from this place, we have to tell the ukrainian women that crimes and deeds will be written and remembered, that the criminals will be judged and held accountable. ladies and gentlemen, we must also remember that the enthusiasm for aid - and this is noticeable - is slowly waning. inflation and the economic situation are draining the pockets of even poland, which has taken in the largest number of refugees. the city appeals and says they're running out of funds. so from this place, i once again appeal to the european commission to provide direct and targeted support to the local government, to the ngos and to the ordinary people, because they are the first line of help and support for all ukrainian refugees.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. and above all, thank you, commissioner, for the excellent work you are doing. women in ukraine were forced by the war to leave their homes overnight, alone or with their children, often with the children of neighbours or siblings. in doing so, they have lost their homes, their social environment and often their financial autonomy. we must help the women to adjust to the new reality. and so, for their independence, they need unrestricted access to educational institutions, to care facilities and to fairly paid work. these women are often traumatized by war. it is not just the fear of bombs and the fear of their loved ones that is paralyzing. sexual violence and rape by russian soldiers war crimes under international law are being used as a weapon against girls and women. we cannot, of course, undo these extreme experiences of violence. but that's why it's even more important and our responsibility to help those affected process the trauma. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one. and here i am thinking in particular of poland, where civil society is doing great work, but the government must also do its part to ensure that women have quick access to emergency contraception and abortion if needed. i am also thinking of what president macron of france announced at the beginning of his presidency of the council, namely that the right to abortion should finally be enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. we need it fast.
mr president, putin’s brutality knows no limits. one day, we were all appalled as a maternity clinic was bombed, the next as mass graves were discovered in bucha. but how far does inhumanity go if you applaud military units that are linked to mass rape. the reports of sexual violence and rape by russian forces continue to grow, and so do the number of pregnancies. many ukrainian women and girls are traumatised as they witnessed how their cities were attacked and their beloved family was killed. and if one trauma wasn’t enough, rape survivors are now trying to cope with the idea that, inside, they are carrying the baby of those that erased all that they left. faced with these horrors, the eu cannot be a silent bystander. that is why today we call on the commission to step up and act without delay to ensure that dignity health kits and emergency contraceptives reach ukraine and host countries to ensure – very important, colleagues – access to safe abortion care throughout the whole eu for pregnant women victims of rape and to ensure justice for the war crimes committed against women. these women have already lost so much. we must not disappoint the ones counting on our help. and remember, women here, maybe also the men, what madeleine albright said: ‘there is a special place in hell for women who don’t help other women’.
madam president, i would first like to emphasize the role of women in defending peace by calling for an end to a war which should not have started through a political solution to the conflict, with the aim of an immediate ceasefire which does not allow for an escalation of the conflict. among the different types of violence that women are subjected to, there is violence in the context of war, in any war. in this context, the violence is adding up. women and girls are at greater risk of sexual violence and exploitation, of falling into human trafficking networks and subsequently of being victims of prostitution and other violence. it is therefore important to minimise the suffering of women fleeing war by ensuring that multiple discrimination, whether based on race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age or language barriers, is combated. ensure also safe transport and safe routes, decent housing in the host country, the right to health, including access to sexual and reproductive rights, social and labour rights and decent working conditions, ensuring that they are not victims of labour exploitation and that this does not give rise to attacks on established labour and social rights. and on this point, the resolution we voted on today could and should have gone further. the resolution also falls short of what is desired in terms of financial means, tying support to the association agreement and the neoliberal policies enshrined in it. the european union must provide additional resources for the measures needed to support the reception of refugees, without withdrawing funds from the structural funds which are not sufficient and are already insufficient for other necessary responses. finally, we wish to express our solidarity with the ukrainian women and to welcome the mobilization that their suffering and struggle has generated in the european institutions. may this solidarity mobilization be extended to all women who are suffering the same tragedy in palestine, afghanistan, syria, libya or any other war-torn region of the world.
madam president, commissioner, there are a growing number of reports of ukrainian women who have been victims of various forms of violence, including rape, at the hands of russian soldiers. the use of violence against women as a weapon of war is unfortunately not a new problem nor is it restricted to this conflict. i'd even say it's become a constant in war scenarios. an estimated 50,000 women were raped in the yugoslav conflict, a figure that rises to 250,000 in the rwandan genocide. we must not forget the protracted conflicts which involve the abduction of girls, forced marriages and their exclusion from the education system, as is the case in parts of nigeria, at the hands of terrorist groups. in the case of ukraine, we must ensure, and the commissioner has done so, thank you, that the victims, many of whom are refugees in countries such as poland and hungary, have access to psychological support, reproductive and sexual health services, such as emergency contraception or voluntary termination of pregnancy. this also demonstrates the importance of developing a feminist foreign policy at european level, following the example of countries such as sweden, as we have recently advocated in this parliament in the european union action plan on gender equality in the context of external action. it is true that we cannot avoid dealing with specific situations close to home, such as ukraine, but we cannot trivialize situations that are further away from home just because they do not make the front page of the newspaper.
madam president, commissioner, i congratulate the european commission once again, and in particular commissioner reynders, on the progress made in this report. the debate on the rule of law in the union is of enormous importance, but it is more relevant today. i will give one example: the european commission is preparing to approve the polish recovery and resilience plan and submit it to the council. parliament has not given up and will not stop demanding that poland comply with the principles of the rule of law. the same is required of all member states, in particular the primacy of community law and the separation of powers. we recognize the efforts of the polish people in welcoming the ukrainian refugees, but it is unacceptable that today in poland the law prohibits polish courts from directly applying union law, that judicial independence is not yet safeguarded, that there is no independence of the central anti-corruption service. this parliament has been very clear: the use of european funds requires respect for european values.
the european commission has repeatedly stated since the end of 2019 that albania has fulfilled all the necessary requirements to move to the next stage of negotiations in its accession process to the european union. in the commission's report for 2019 and 2020, the recommendation to mark the first intergovernmental conference is clear, a recommendation also shared by this parliament in the subsequent report adopted in 2021. we recognised at that time that, despite the need to continue implementing reforms, the criteria for marking the first conference had already been met. despite this, we are almost halfway through the year 2022 and albania is still waiting. since then, the country has not been idle. it has continued to make progress on its path towards european integration, but the blockade on the union side has created a feeling of frustration among the population and the authorities, which threatens to affect the country and the very deepening of the european project. it's time to end this impasse. the first intergovernmental conference has to be postponed until the end of the french presidency of the council and i regret that the presidency is not represented here in this debate. it was very important that this happened. in this report, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, i stress the importance of moving forward with the accession process, so as not to disappoint the expectations that have been created and to encourage the continuation of the implementation of the reforms in the country. this text, enriched by the contribution of my fellow shadow rapporteurs, whom i thank for their excellent cooperation, was approved by the afet committee with more than 90% of the votes in favour, which strengthens the recommendations contained in it. among these recommendations, i would like to highlight the attention paid to relations between the different actors in albanian society, first of all with regard to the dialogue between the different political parties and actors in the country, which has made considerable progress since the last elections, but which can and should be improved. the role of the media and civil society should be strengthened and any legislative initiative on the media should follow the guidelines of the venice commission. i would also like to recall the need, highlighted in the report, to close the remaining electoral loopholes before the next general elections, in accordance with the osce/odih recommendations. the report highlights the importance of the developments already made and what still needs to be done in the energy and environmental protection sectors, among others, as well as the efforts that have been made in the fight against trafficking in human beings, arms and goods and the good cooperation in these areas with the european agencies. i would remind you that albania is the only country in the region which has signed cooperation agreements with all the european union agencies in the field of justice and home affairs. i also stress, as does the report, the work of the special structure for combating corruption and organised crime, as well as the progress achieved in implementing a comprehensive reform of the justice system, with the implementation and continuation of an unprecedented verification process and the re-establishment of the functioning of the constitutional court and the high court. in conclusion, i would like to stress here that albania has over time proved to be a reliable partner in foreign policy matters. this has been seen recently, once again, in support for ukraine, in sanctioning russia and in monitoring the positions of eu member states in the united nations general assembly, as well as in their membership of the security council. albania and north macedonia will still have to go through a long process of reform, it is true, but it is an unshakable fact that all the conditions for the first intergovernmental conference have already been met. the accession process for albania cannot be held hostage to parallel discussions. it's time to move on.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. albania, as has already been said here, is a country which has been going through many difficulties. he went through an earthquake, he went through covid, like all of us, but despite all of that, he didn't slow down on the path of membership reforms. one thing is clear to all albanians: they belong to the european union and they want to belong to this area of peace, democracy and progress. we cannot deny them that right because albania has already won that right. i therefore reaffirm to you, commissioner, after having heard all my colleagues, with even greater authority, the support of this house for the work done by the commission to ensure that the accession process proceeds. i challenge the seats, unfortunately left vacant by the council, to respond favourably to the challenge which is being put to them. i would like to remind you that after all this time, members from the various parliamentary groups and from different countries have spoken here and all of them have unanimously said that albania has all the conditions for this process to proceed definitively.
madam president, i would like to thank you. history teaches us that free and independent trade unions have often been the driving force behind important democratic, economic and social reforms. we must now act together in europe to ensure that belarus is a free and democratic society. because what's happening there is terrible. regular persecution of people who fight to improve the working conditions of ordinary wage earners happens daily. trade union democratic rights in belarus have long been threatened or absent. these attacks on free trade unions and workers are also leading to the weakening and isolation of belarus from the outside world. strikes and demonstrations at large companies and workplaces show that there is strong support for a free and democratic belarus. but we must do more. that is why we demand the immediate release of the imprisoned trade union leaders in belarus. support for civil society shall be increased. trade union rights are human rights!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 19 april was a black day in the history of the trade union movement in belarus: 18 trade union leaders and independent representatives were arrested on charges of violating public order. this event is just the culmination of a tragic process that started with the 2020 elections and continued with the blockade of civil society and human rights organizations. the european union has been acting firmly for two years now by imposing severe sanctions on the authoritarian lukashenko regime, which is now directly supporting the war in ukraine waged by putin's ally. in addition to renewing sanctions, we must reaffirm our solidarity with the belarusian people, particularly those citizens who are taking to the streets to demand freedom and democracy. we therefore call for the release of all opposition leaders and trade union representatives arbitrarily detained for political reasons. today we say stop to putin, but we also say stop to lukašenka.
madam president, i never thought that in the 21st century there would be dictators in europe, and mr lukashenko has been here for 27 years. i would never have thought that in the 21st century there could be a direct war of one european state against another, and we have here the incredible conflict since world war ii with the terrible casualties. what we need for belarus is undoubtedly clear support for the belarusian people. clear support for the opposition, trade unions, detainees and prisoners. we need a road map, no doubt, to show our sanctions and the steps that will follow if we fail to meet our demands. what we need, clearly, in my opinion, is for ukraine to win. because if ukraine wins, the belarusian regime and the dictator lukashenko will undoubtedly fall.
madam president, this debate and the resolution that accompanies it are another piece of the systematic exercise by the european union and its institutions of cynical exploitation of rights and values in order to try to impose their dominance on sovereign states. it is no coincidence that the resolution ignores the policy of interference by the united states of america and the european union in belarus, insisting on the promotion of internal destabilisation and the policy of sanctions aimed at suffocating the country and creating further difficulties for the people. policies in clear conflict with international law and the charter of the united nations, in particular the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of each country. the second is a double standard which they try to impose on different matters, such as the principle of neutrality, while ignoring the role of nato and its expansion to the east. we are faced with an exercise which does not contribute to the necessary de-escalation in the region. it is not a question of a new europe, but of a new europe.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the problem of tax evasion by multinational companies has been growing for many decades and has benefited from the support of right-wing political groups and countries whose public finance models are based on the expropriation of tax revenue that rightfully belongs to other states. this opposition was very clear, both in the negotiation of the oecd agreement and in the debate on this report, in which it was chosen because the right wing wanted it to be so, simply by stamping the international agreement of the oecd. this agreement is an important precedent which, we understand, only happens because of the growing threats, or even concrete, unilateral measures, taken by states to protect themselves and to protect their tax revenue from theft by other member states, in the case of the european union, or simply states. but it is a very imperfect law, which has been promoted with a very misleading advertising campaign and which we will have to revisit when it is revealed and when it becomes clear that it is deeply inadequate. precedent is important. the law will have to be much improved.
madam president, taxes are the most important source of public revenue and a manifestation of the sovereign power of states. it is taxes that finance our budgets and it is the tax burden that determines better or worse conditions for companies to create jobs, generate wealth and contribute to our economic growth. tax competitiveness is therefore an unavoidable dimension of any economic strategy. but this competition must be fair, balanced and, of course, transparent. the international agreement on the taxation of multinationals, in particular this second pillar on the effective minimum rate, was an important step. the union has led the negotiations and will lead the implementation of the agreement. the time for discussion must be transformed into the time for action. the commitment of member states is essential to ensure that this directive is adopted, is properly transposed and is applied in a way that safeguards the competitiveness of our economies and our ability to attract investment. unfortunately, the union is not being accompanied on the outside by the commitment of other countries, and on the inside we have yet to decide on the first pillar, the rules which guarantee taxation of profits generated on our territory. we have a lot of work to do and we need to do more. and this parliament will continue to demand that.
mr president, the implementation of the oecd global agreement in the european union is not only historic but also a huge responsibility. historic because it opens the way to a global solution and greater fiscal justice. historic because it is an important step towards reducing the 190 billion euros the european union loses annually in tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. a sum that would allow us to fund nextgenerationeu every four years. but it is also a responsibility to continue to provide the european union with new own resources, which are essential to finance the common investments needed to meet the challenges. without the creation of new own resources, the financing and debt repayment of instruments such as next generationeu or other instruments needed now or in the future, for example as a result of the war in ukraine, could put enormous pressure on european budgets and lead to an unsustainable increase in national contributions or cuts in european policies.
in writing. this proposal for a directive on a minimum level of taxation for multinational groups defines, of course, what does not exist today. but setting a minimum effective tax rate of 15% is very limiting, as it does not reverse the path followed by all eu countries, some more than others, of low taxation of large economic groups. this is clearly a political option and there is a risk that the alleged minimum level will become a maximum tax reference. moreover, to consider only multinational groups with a consolidated turnover of more than eur 750 million in at least two of the last four consecutive fiscal years is to leave out of the directive about 90%-85% of multinational groups! at the same time, it also excludes parent companies that are pension funds, investment funds or real estate investment vehicles. in other words, famous vulture funds or those companies that have contributed significantly to speculation in the real estate market are not covered by this directive. in the end, this directive is nothing more than an exercise in mixing, reshuffling and (almost) keeping everything the same and, blatantly, it still tries to interfere in a matter of member states' sovereignty such as taxation.
madam president, the outermost regions face permanent constraints on their development, as recognised in article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i therefore welcome the renewed strategy for the outermost regions presented by the european commission on 3 may. a people-first strategy that takes into account the specific challenges faced by these regions, such as madeira and the azores in portugal, such as employment rates below the eu average, especially among young people, the high level of people at risk of poverty and population decline. i therefore call on my colleagues to take immediate action for the outermost regions, which will promote effective social and territorial cohesion through air and sea connectivity, employment and access to training, and derogations in the environmental transition, which will enable the outermost regions to adapt fully.
madam president, the execution by the state of israel of shireen abu akleh would, in any other context, be a worldwide scandal, not least because it was followed by more attacks after the journalist was dead. first, at his funeral for flying his country's flag, and then with a smear campaign in the israeli press. however, shireen's autopsy also revealed the hypocrisy of the european institutions and their deafening silence on a matter that, in any other context, would have deserved a strong and unanimous condemnation. it must be said that those who condemn occupations and not others, who protect lives and not others, do not defend peace. defend one side, and that support will cost you lives. but peace was defending shireen until the day she was murdered. we shall never see it again, except in the faces of those who have not stopped resisting and denouncing a criminal occupation. even without the support and solidarity of the european institutions which preach the values of human rights so much and practice them so little.
on 9 may, the conference on the future of europe concluded with a veritable closing event in strasbourg. no expense was spared, and children danced through parliament. the chairmen were very pleased, as were the carefully selected citizens. we have had roaring speeches from president macron and of course guy verhofstadt, who spoke of their european federalist dreams. so far, nothing new under the sun. but what surprised me was commission president ursula von der leyen, the person responsible for implementing the treaties. she had the following judgment recorded: yes, change the treaties if need be. the european commission is responsible for safeguarding the treaties. it is not her job to tread on the slippery political ice to increase her own power. mrs von der leyen may speak with great words, but political statements on treaty amendments are not part of her job and are not appropriate. we as the european parliament have the task of monitoring the commission and the commission. let us point this out to her.
madam president, working class households are experiencing unbearable price rises and shortages of electricity, fuel and consumer goods, with the risk of a food crisis. they are experiencing the results of the green transition strategy, the imperialist conflict in ukraine and the competition and sanctions that have been imposed. with subsidies and loans for common orders, the people will repay the profitability of the energy groups. the commission's recommendations and those of governments place the individual responsibility on the people, charging them even for wasteful use of electricity. they are imposing the interests of the eu energy monopolies that do business with russia. at the same time, they are rigging the supply of expensive american lng, with greek shipowners hoarding twice as much, transporting it as well as russian oil. the people must not become a punching bag in the european union, the united states and nato's competition with capitalist russia; they must strengthen their struggle for their own interests, for disengagement from imperialist plans and war equipment by lifting sanctions, abolishing indirect taxes and real increases.
madam president, while we are debating this in the european parliament, the conference of the outermost regions is taking place in martinique; the outermost regions are the only ones mentioned by name in european law, in the treaty of lisbon, precisely to protect their particularities: six french regions, including martinique, two portuguese regions and one spanish region, the canary islands. and they are debating the european union's strategy for the outermost regions presented by the commissioner for cohesion and reforms, elisa ferreira. and that's okay, we should celebrate. but its defence will not be complete until special treatment is asserted in two european laws which are being debated by this house. the first is the imposition of a minimum rate of interest on the profits of large multinationals. because this parliament is being consulted, but it will be up to the national governments, during the final debate on the directive, to determine the specific features of the tax systems of some of these outermost regions. the second is the temporary adjustment to the decarbonisation of the economy so that it does not impose untenable conditions on regions that are entirely dependent on their air connectivity and maritime supply.
madam president, last friday tatjana ždanoka, a member of this parliament, was arrested in riga with other protesters who were demonstrating publicly and peacefully against the demolition of a monument to soviet soldiers in victoria park. his detention deserves condemnation from this parliament. we hereby express our solidarity with tatiana and with those who do not give up defending the historical truth, the rights and freedoms that the struggle of the peoples has guaranteed. the same european union which seeks to assert itself as the champion of human rights and democracy in different parts of the world is living in harmony with these violations or even promoting them. the european union's imposition of censorship on media outlets, which is now extending to cultural and sporting activities, the removal of national powers and laws, such as the constitution of the portuguese republic, imposes a logic of single thinking. the destruction of historical heritage is another face of historical revisionism and the attempt to rewrite history, aiming to erase the achievements of the soviet union and the communists and the rights and gains achieved by the struggle of the peoples.
mr president, the atrocities we have witnessed in bucha and a little bit throughout ukraine, committed by the russian invading forces, remind us of the scenarios we have already seen in chechnya, syria and many other places. and they are a mirror of the state of affairs that impunity has been leading us to. and this is a fight we all have to do: the fight against impunity! to this end, it is essential that europol and eurojust be given the means and mandate to act vigorously and with full efficiency in the collection and protection of evidence and that we support the international criminal court in its work. but this is not enough. it is not enough to try war crimes and crimes against humanity. the crime of aggression must also be tried and that crime of aggression can only be tried in a special court. it is therefore important that the european union, here too, plays a clear and visible supporting role in the establishment of this court. but we also need to take care of the victims, the women who have been raped, and ensure that they have access to abortion and access to their sexual and reproductive health in conditions that uphold their dignity.
mr president, the european union's sanctions policy sacrifices the interests of the countries and peoples of europe and contributes to the escalation of confrontation, making the path to peace more difficult. the case of gas is a paradigmatic one. the sanctions package adopted is followed by an even sharper speculative increase in the price of gas, which had already been rising in previous months, and the people have to pay. gas storage targets are set for member states to meet, but as economic groups do not want to make these investments, it is the states and the people who will pay. some dependencies are replaced by others, more distant and environmentally harmful, more expensive, and people pay for it. it is clear that state intervention and the establishment of ceilings is necessary, but it is not enough. it is necessary to go further. the exploration, procurement, production, transport and marketing of the different forms of energy must be in the public domain, under public and democratic scrutiny. it is the only way that the people will not pay for the war, the sanctions and the profits and the exploitation of the multinationals in the sector.
mr president, i acknowledge the european commission's effort in presenting this repowereu. it is necessary and it is the moment. but repowereu is revolutionising, to put it appropriately, several key european instruments, in particular the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and the recovery and resilience facility. that is why we are calling on the european commission to come forward with the necessary proposals, which are clear and transparent and which safeguard european policies, priorities and defined objectives. the revision of the 2021-2027 mff is therefore forthcoming. and we want a thorough debate on repowereu in this parliament. we can adjust european priorities. we cannot second-guess well-defined political objectives. and one thing is certain: under no circumstances will we accept the devaluation of the role of the european parliament, particularly as budgetary authority.
mr president, commission president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur. today, as always, the european union needs allies to meet challenges in the areas of security, combating disinformation, foreign interference, protecting critical infrastructure, securing supply chains, combating climate change, ocean governance and preserving the planet's biodiversity. the challenges affect both the european union and the indo-pacific and require strong cooperation guided by european values. the european union must step up its efforts to promote human security and eradicate poverty, social injustice and human rights violations. it is essential that the european union enhances security cooperation with partners in the indo-pacific region, recognising the diversity of the region, i.e. a one-size-fits-all approach would not be the appropriate strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today's debate unfortunately shows that european cohesion policies have not been able to deal effectively in recent years with the various socioeconomic problems of the 20 million citizens living on the islands of the european union. this is a matter for serious reflection, since it was on the small island of ventotene in the mediterranean that the european project began some 80 years ago with the manifesto of altiero spinelli, which envisaged the creation of a europe which was politically, socially and territorially cohesive, a europe in which all citizens could enjoy the same rights and services. but today, as my colleagues have said, islands, especially the smaller ones, suffer from structural disadvantages: the islands are characterised by low population density, difficult access to energy and water, poor access to health and cultural services, dependence on transport and an economy almost exclusively based on tourism, fishing or agriculture, despite the potential of the islands. this resolution represents an important step towards the definition of a strategy that can bridge the socioeconomic gap between islands and continental areas, guaranteeing their development prospects in view of the challenges of the green and digital transition, but above all by implementing a concrete european cohesion policy, as provided for in article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
mr president, my first words of thanks to mr omarjee for presenting this timely report and my thanks also to the commission. 20 million inhabitants, 4.6% of the union's population, represent our citizens living on islands. 2400 islands from 13 member states. i come from mallorca (balearic islands, spain). there has long been a recognition that insularity is a permanent structural disadvantage and needs to be compensated for. we have many challenges living on islands: size, population pressure, exceptionalism, double or triple insularity on occasion, dependence on air transport, physical disconnection from the mainland, the costs of exports and imports, difficulties in the labour market, difficulties in being able to access education on equal terms, difficulties in accessing health and water and energy. in the case of tourism, the balearic islands are practically dependent on tourism. we need additional fiscal support to be able to have sustainable tourism. the same applies to agriculture; agriculture is also very important and we need a specific plan to be competitive. we have made an appeal to the islands from the balearic islands for this or that, in favour of agriculture. i would also like to say that it is very important to abolish the minimum rule, because aid to alleviate insularity can never be state aid: it is aid to enable them to be equal. we ask nothing to be above anyone; we ask what we ask to be equal.
mr president, one of the main challenges facing the eu's islands, which are becoming more frequent, is the extreme natural phenomena and frequent flooding caused by climate change, which are devastating because of the lack of sustainable management and conservation of agricultural and forestry soils. in this respect, the european union solidarity fund must be improved to deal more realistically with the consequences, as this report itself acknowledges. we need a specific support mechanism to allow for greater eligibility for the outermost regions of the european union, with the possibility of this fund being mobilised to finance emergency operations and recovery in the event of damage of less than 1% of gdp, when affected in a small area, taking into account and considering its specific location and its resources.
madam president, as has been said many times, the islands of the european union as a whole face permanent structural disadvantages, such as their small size, often combined with very difficult topography, low population density, which is also reflected in small internal markets and a heavy dependence on local products, which they can only mitigate through another huge dependence: that of sea and air transport. in addition to structural disadvantages, our islands, particularly the outermost ones, are still at the forefront of the regions most affected by climate change, suffering from an increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters with enormous impact on their economy, their ecosystems, not to mention the cases where they even claim human lives. it is therefore essential to draw up a specific strategy for the islands of the european union, with clearly defined priorities for action, in order to reduce the impact of their structural disadvantages and to promote the development of measures to combat, prevent and adapt to the new challenges they face.
madam president, commissioner, i think we are dealing with a very interesting report, with 93 points, all of them of great interest. i would like to stress that the most important thing in today's debate is to put the islands at the centre. we need a european pact for the islands because otherwise there are no specific policies. the only one that existed was posei, and we saw in the reform how they wanted to cut their budget. i do not know what will happen in 2027, whether it will be a policy within the cap or a state policy. the islands have characteristics and situations which require specific support, whether they are outermost islands or not. i am from spain, with the balearic and canary islands, which are the outermost regions, and which require specific measures. let us also be sensitive to the objective 55 package tomorrow, which is not at all sensitive, by the way, to these islands.
the reality of island regions within the european union is diverse and presents structural disadvantages compared with continental territories, due to their size, low population density, seasonality, high topographical variation or poor connectivity. these structural features require a positive distinction between public investment policies which enable greater territorial and social cohesion and counteract the divergent trend in the development of these territories. the portuguese islands are also ultraperipheral regions, suffering from this double insularity. the development of the archipelagos of the azores and madeira necessarily requires investment in agriculture, support for small-scale and traditional fishing, industrial development, sustainable tourism and improved accessibility, both between islands and with the mainland. it also involves policies and investments to achieve this development, in particular a posei dedicated to fisheries and another to transport, as we have advocated and will continue to advocate. we regret that the conditionality imposed on the structural funds is having an impact on these regions, limiting development possibilities which would be fundamental.
madam president, when president von der leyen announced her ambitious green agenda and her intention to put the european union in the global leadership of the fight against global warming, nobody said it was going to be easy. but a clear majority in this european parliament supports that undeniable objective. we also call for a just transition to a carbon-free economy, fair to vulnerable sectors and fair to island and remote territories such as the outermost regions, which have a specific legal basis for special treatment that allows them a reasonable time to assimilate the objective, so that it is not unattainable. i would therefore like to thank those who will be voting on the amendments on the uprs in the emissions trading directive in this strasbourg plenary, because i am convinced that this will give them the timeframe modulated and adjusted to their needs to incorporate renewable energies and to meet the objective of a sustainable, green, blue, circular and innovative economy.
mr president, for over a year we have been warning about the loss of purchasing power. and in the meantime, we're caught up in reality. and it's not just putin, and it's not just the disruption in supply chains. it is the reality of excessive government spending, a war on fossil fuels, corporate regulatory pressure and the printing of money by the european central bank. that is the root of the problems of high inflation. but what does the eu do? more of the same: a green deal with more rules, more taxes, the corona recovery fund a well-paid cigar from its own box , which the netherlands throws away to reduce nitrogen emissions and offshore wind energy. the dutch are getting the boot on top of car taxes, carbon taxes and airline taxes. president, a fall in purchasing power calls for less taxation, less regulation, less government and less eu. instead, progressive europe is waging a war against the free market, a war against our savers, pensioners and young people. this policy must stop.
madam president, the deterioration of living conditions, the increase in housing costs, the loss of purchasing power of households and the rise in interest rates make it urgent to protect the homes of many families and prevent them from becoming homeless. in this sense, states should assume the role of promoters of public housing and of promoters of policies of construction and urban rehabilitation in order to expand the supply of public housing at costs compatible with household incomes. we advocate increased public investment in the rehabilitation and construction of public housing, which responds to the housing shortages identified, to workers and, in particular, to young people, enabling them to become self-sufficient and to start a family. the supply of public housing under the supported or conditional rent schemes needs to be increased. but this requires breaking away from the budgetary constraints imposed by the european union, followed by national governments which, as we can see, limit the responses needed to improve the living conditions of the people.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister, i begin by greeting all the rapporteurs of this package entitled objective 55. we cannot have the most vulnerable, the already victims of energy poverty, paying for the climate transition. we have ambitious climate targets, and we have to have them, but we need to promote social justice here as well. that's why the social climate action fund is necessary. but this is new expenditure in the budget of the european union, and new expenditure means new money. it cannot be created at the expense of european programmes and policies, and particularly cohesion policy. it must respect the democratic principles of the european union budget: transparency, universality, democratic control by the european parliament. the committee on budgets proposes an adjustment mechanism in the event of a carbon market development that benefits citizens and member states.
madam president, mr vice-president timmermans, minister zacharopoulou, europe cannot give up its ambition to lead the fight against climate action. we owe it to the younger generations, whose quality of life is threatened by the catastrophic consequences of global warming. i support the unavoidable measures that aim to reduce carbon emissions by 55% by 2030, so as to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. it's the only way to stop the accelerating rise in temperature in our common home, planet earth. measures are essential to reconcile the energy transition with competitiveness and social cohesion. with appropriate funding, the energy transition will provide a stimulus for technological innovation and its rapid incorporation into industry and everyday life. the transition is compatible with economic progress and, in this difficult time of war in europe, it must contribute to our strategic autonomy. increased energy efficiency and increased use of renewable energy means less dependence on fossil fuels. the transition may, in the short term, have a negative impact on the lives of many families and many businesses. it is therefore essential to create the social climate action fund, financially supporting households and their energy consumption, reducing public transport expenditure and helping small businesses. we need that fund to have a much larger financial allocation, because the climate transition has to be socially fair, respecting the values of the european union and ensuring the essential support of the citizens.
mr president, mr vice president, i have to say that i am very pleased. solving the trilemma of price, supply and environmental policy is not easy. but in this equation it is vital not to increase costs for individuals, industries and smes. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. that is why we should support the stabilization of the co2 price by injecting some of the rights from the stability reserve into the market in the vote tomorrow. moreover, it is crucial to allow more time to adapt the border adjustment mechanism before limiting the free allocation of allowances. finally, as we approved in the committee on industry, the social climate fund should be available to all smes, especially those affected by the new rules on emissions trading. is there an urgent need to respond to the challenges of climate change? - i'm not sure. but we must do so without adding costs that would suffocate the economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank my friend david casa and esther de lange for what they have presented to the social climate fund. i believe that it is an extremely important contribution to support those who are most affected by change, by transformation, in this difficult period. i believe that the fight against climate change is perhaps the greatest socioeconomic challenge of our century. that is not disputed by anyone except a few clerks who are not even here to participate in the debate. but the present situation, the war in ukraine, inflation, shows us in what direction the development is going. and we have to keep in mind that we are still ahead of the green deal, ahead of implementation, ahead of fit for 55! we are seeing a rise in prices, particularly energy prices, which is simply threatening to many people. in germany, the model bill: up to eur 5000 additional burden for a family of four these are dramatic developments. and that is why it is important: we cannot solve every problem here at european level, but we are making an important contribution to it.
mr president, madam minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. my group is committed to the common goal of making our continent climate-neutral by 2050. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must ensure that production and innovation continue to take place in the eu. the co2 compensation mechanism at our borders is a screwdriver that can only work if we allow our industry to modernise itself through the proceeds of the cbam. and yes, that's why we can't let free vouchers expire prematurely. the commission, mr timmermans, likes to talk about open strategic autonomy. i am in favour of this concept. but if we fail to strike the right balance at the heart of our climate policy, we buy ourselves a clear conscience at best, but we slip into a foolish nimby dependency. let's stop this together!
mr president, the target of reducing emissions by 55% by 2030 is a very ambitious one, but also feasible, and i think most of us have taken this target on board, and i, as a romanian mep and chair of the committee on industry, research and energy, have promoted it as a key objective and will continue to promote it. but this can only be achieved by encouraging and implementing innovative technologies in the fields of energy, environment, industry and agriculture. what we legislate with this package will have an impact on the economy and on the citizens, and we must be careful to avoid putting even more pressure on an economy already so affected by the energy price crisis, the pandemic and, recently, russia's illegal aggression against ukraine. we need balance, we need to take account of the different starting points and the extent of the efforts and reforms that each member state will have to undertake. that's why i'm still in favor of the modernization fund being increased. we support the financing of natural gas projects as well as investments in nuclear energy.
mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister, in strengthening this system we cannot forget the outermost regions which are exclusively dependent on air and sea links for the transport of people and goods. if this is the case, a carbon tax will mean higher prices on the shelf and higher costs of living in general in regions that are already among the poorest in the eu. in this sense, it may also jeopardise their economic development and the level of employment in these regions, and hence the importance of ensuring special derogations to allow for full adaptation and a sustainable transition. i therefore call on everyone to take account of the specific features of the outermost regions, as is safeguarded by article 349 of the treaties, in particular and specifically when travelling between their member state, other member states, but also between islands, as is the case with the azores and madeira archipelagos in portugal. only then will we ensure effective territorial cohesion and a truly just transition that leaves no one behind.
mr president, vice-president timmermans has said here that this package for reducing emissions should leave no one behind. i said that knowing that the insistence on perverse market solutions, which are not only questionable in terms of their effectiveness in reducing emissions but also burden workers and populations, contributing to the increase in the cost of living, as the commission itself acknowledges, justifies the creation of the social fund for climate action to mitigate the socioeconomic consequences of the extension of the emissions trading scheme. this fund is clearly insufficient and the commission's proposal is marked precisely by support for a very restrictive range of those affected, leaving many behind. and the methodology for calculating the financial allocation particularly harms one member state, portugal. portugal is the only country whose gross national income per capita is less than 90% of the eu-27 average that will have an allocation of the total percentage of the fund that is less than the percentage of its population in the eu-27 as a whole. it is an unjustifiable discrimination which must be corrected.
mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister, the situation is dramatic. transport accounts for about 25% of total emissions in the european union and shows no downward trend. co2 performance standards for cars and vans have been a crucial element in limiting emissions from cars driving on our roads, but they are insufficient to respond to the climate emergency. and the revision that the commission has proposed to respond to the calls of citizens, science and the commitments made in the climate law is a good starting point, improved in this parliament in the report we are going to vote on tomorrow. it is extremely worrying, however, the lack of ambition shown by this house, which ignores the needs of the population, industry and our planet. we need to steer the sector towards decarbonisation in order to increase the supply of zero-emission technologies, reduce prices and rapidly create a second-hand and third-hand market for zero-emission light vehicles. if it is certain that the transition will have impacts, it is also certain that there are support mechanisms to mitigate them, just as we ask the commission to come forward with further support measures if necessary. i would remind you that this is an area where technological and economically viable solutions already exist. we cannot continue to allow him to be dismissed as irresponsible. i call on the members of this house to support the end date for internal combustion engines in 2035 and that we only have new zero-emission cars on our roads after that.
madam president, the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, has the responsibility of enforcing community legislation. of course, and that is what we are talking about here today, the rule of law conditionality regulation. poland is facing a complex situation today. polish society, like other countries in the region, is making a brutal effort to integrate some 4 million citizens fleeing the war in ukraine. the european union must support this effort. the commission could have simply sought to release only the necessary funding, and only that, for the integration of refugees into polish society, in full respect of all their rights. the commission will have to keep up the pressure for poland to become a state governed by the rule of law. that is what the citizens who make this welcoming effort expect of us. the plan approval doesn't go that way.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, mr vice—president, dear david, nathalie, other rapporteurs and colleagues, following the russian war of aggression, the eu has rapidly adapted its foreign, security and defence policy to support ukraine and press russia to end its invasion. but eu policy needs to reflect a new reality for the future, for its strategic and long—term policies. with the adoption of this report, the parliament makes important recommendations to the hr/vp, to the council, on the future of the foreign, security and defence policy after the war. our group was able to influence the report, we think, in a holistic approach. our vision for the foreign, security and defence policy is multi-dimensional, with human rights, human security and respect for international law at its heart. but we did not shy away from the defence dimension. as the russian invasion of ukraine shows, we need to be prepared for what we do not desire or deserve. the recommendations built on the recent developments, including the adoption of the strategic compass, calling for its swift implementation as a starting point for implementing a common eu defence. we call for the introduction of qualified majority, as nathalie mentioned, for certain foreign policy areas to increase the effectiveness of our eu foreign policy. and we value the cooperation with like—minded partners around the globe, especially nato allies, to maintain the strongest possible unity in defence of the rules—based international order to promote and to defend peace, democratic principles and the respect for human rights. we do not forget the importance of the neighbouring policy in the promotion of democracy, stability, peace, economic development and the respect for human rights. we hope this recommendation to be heard by the european council, even if the council is no longer represented in this debate. and we certainly hope this recommendation to also reach the nato summit soon to be held.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, mr micheál martin, taoiseach of ireland, on behalf of the socialists and democrats and my leader, iratxe garcía pérez, i would like to welcome you to the house of european democracy. this parliament is very much concerned about the position of the uk government on the implementation of the northern ireland protocol and its impact on the republic of ireland, on northern ireland and on the uk and globally on the good friday agreement. so i would like to ask you, can you elaborate further on your views on this matter? and let me take the opportunity of having you here to address also a very different but also complex topic: tax competition. it endangers the so critical collection of resources that you referred to, taoiseach. let me say clearly, we welcome resoundingly the fact that the republic of ireland joined the oecd tax agreement on minimum corporate taxation. nevertheless, as we all know, many other practices may still be used to decrease real taxation. taoiseach, do you agree that the eu and the member states should cooperate more to level the playing field on these matters? thank you so much for the opportunity. welcome to the european parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, what is happening here is a huge irregularity: they are based on a leaked draft of the united states supreme court regarding abortion. what are you guys up to? coercing the jurisdiction of the united states? are they trying to influence democratic legislation illegally? it's a disgrace and a disgrace to this institution. as a woman, i am not able to understand the ways in which they claim something as painful as ending a pregnancy. you should listen to the experience of women who have chosen to have an abortion: they are deceived into believing that they are engaging in a trivial intervention, but the reality is that they are approached by a rather delicate process and with absolute coldness. it is normal for a woman to feel uneasy when she learns that she is pregnant. those of us who have lost babies know the sadness when you get the news that it's not thriving, you experience a great absence. opposing abortion is not just a matter of conscience, but of knowing how to choose the good, where we will find love and happiness. christianity invites us all to respect human dignity. the real protection of women is to support them in their motherhood, today it is a heroism and a privilege to be a mother. lack of resources cannot be the cause of the child limit. women's choices are not being free, they are being pushed by a poisoned society, by a feminism that denies their femininity. human rights cannot be subordinated to ideological issues that seek to normalize the practice of a 'human right' such as abortion. the united states shows us that social consciousness values life, and you show us with this debate that you value death.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, in my country, portugal, after years of fighting for women's rights, voluntary termination of pregnancy was finally decriminalised in 2007. since then, the number of ivfs has been steadily declining, and it is estimated that 40 percent fewer abortions have been performed in the last ten years. those who oppose the decriminalization of ivg in the united states or europe know well that banning abortion is not effective in combating it, it only makes it clandestine, unprotected and dangerous to the physical and mental health and sometimes to the very life of women, but only to those who do not have the means to do so in a safe place in another country. we condemn and reject all the regressions in sexual and reproductive rights that have been felt anywhere in the world. the way is forward, not backward. advance access to sexual and reproductive health services with the necessary reinforcement of free, quality public health services, sexuality education, free access to contraceptives and family planning services.
madam president, 60,000 women die every year worldwide from complications associated with illegal abortions. it's their lives we're thinking about today, too. so the fight to decriminalize abortion has been a solidarity struggle between many women in different parts of the world and many men as well. north american, south american, african and european women. all of us, when we had to fight this fight in our countries, as i had twice, felt how important it was to have the support of women from other countries. so the possibility of roe v. wade being overturned has something to do with us as well, and it reminds us of the importance of being aware of movements around here in favor of criminalizing abortion. even in countries where we thought that this stage had already passed, women's rights are universal. we will stand together in this fight, as we have in many others, from the right of women to education in afghanistan to the fight against female genital mutilation in africa.
author. madam president, the nicaraguan government will probably tell us that, with this resolution, we are once again meddling in its internal affairs, that we are interfering in its sovereignty. but no: this is not about sovereignty, this is about human rights. because when in a country there are dozens of political prisoners, including opposition candidates, human rights defenders, when in a matter of weeks almost four hundred civil society organisations are closed down under the pretext of applying the law, but with the real intention of silencing any dissenting voice, when judges impart the law, but certainly not justice, thus becoming another instrument of repression, when all this happens, we cannot remain silent, we have to denounce this situation, whatever happens in the country, and demand respect for human, civil and political rights, and ask the european union to contribute with its instruments to reversing this situation.
author. madam president, the use of judicial measures for repressive purposes in nicaragua remains very worrying. hundreds of ngos have been banned since 2018, with 350 cancelled this year alone. the united nations considers the new law in nicaragua as contrary to rights obligations, restricting the freedom of expression and association of any organization that attempts to criticize the government. there are records of detentions, intimidation and persecution of political opponents, human rights defenders, lawyers and journalists, as well as cases of prisoners subjected to cruel and inhuman treatment. there are criminal trials that don't respect fair trial rights. the instrumentalisation of justice by political power is an unacceptable reality. the courts cannot become the judicial arm of repression. they are the expression of a corrupt judicial system, the absence of justice and the separation of powers. we must stand in solidarity with the people of nicaragua in the face of the arbitrariness and authoritarianism of the government.
for the ppe group. madam president, since at least 2018, the nicaraguan authorities have been conducting systematic, targeted detentions, persecution of political opponents, student leaders, journalists and all troublemakers. they face death threats, intimidation, and of course assault and harassment. and despite these many risks, journalists and other human rights defenders continue to play a vital role in monitoring the human rights situation in nicaragua. to date, at least 182 political opponents are held in prison in inhumane conditions. seven of them were provisional candidates for the position of president in the 2021 elections. president ortega is clearly trying to control the state, and it's clear that the judiciary and the prosecutor's office are completely subservient to his will, his regime. nicaragua is changing from a democracy to a clear-cut totalitarianism. mr. ortega is a servant of the putin regime, and as such, he is excluded from our cooperation.
the death of the sandinista revolutionary general hugo torres in february this year shows that even those who fought alongside daniel ortega are falling into his hands. general torres was held for eight months in inhumane conditions, subjected to constant interrogation and with evidence of torture until the day of his death. the families of hundreds of nicaraguan politicians, activists, members of the catholic church tell other horror stories like this one, in which their loved ones are placed in inhumane conditions while awaiting closed-door phantom trials, which end in sentences of 3 to 15 years. we have repeated this speech here too many times and unfortunately we continue to see the situation in the country deteriorating, but we must be persistent and even be attentive to other ways of making our solidarity more effective.
on behalf of the ecr group. i'm not going to let you do that. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! nicaragua is one of the two poorest countries in latin america, next to haiti. this is a country where 40 percent of the population lives on less than two dollars a day. and this is perhaps the biggest indictment of president daniel ortega and vice president rosario murillo. on the one hand, nicaragua borders the pacific ocean, but there is no peace in this country. to the west, it borders the caribbean sea, and i have a feeling that these pirates from the caribbean sea are running this country. pauperization and injustice - these two things go hand in hand. it is good that the european parliament is speaking. it's a shame he's had to take 20 or 30 in the last few years.
madam president, the european parliament continues its policy of fully supporting the interventionist and destabilising strategy of the united states of america in latin america. this new resolution against nicaragua and its people is yet another demonstration of how this parliament does not hesitate to distort the facts to cover up an unacceptable policy which is contrary to the principles of the united nations charter and international law. we therefore reject all external interference in the republic of nicaragua and the continuing destabilisation and attempt by the united states of america, with the support of the european union, to impose its economic and political dominance on that country. we therefore call for an end to this policy of interference, including the coercive and unilateral measures imposed outside the united nations, which are aimed at hindering nicaragua's economic development and affecting the living conditions of the nicaraguan people. we reaffirm our solidarity with nicaragua and its people in their struggle to defend their sovereignty and independence, their right to decide their own path of development, free from external pressure and interference, in defence of and in the continuation of the sandinista revolution and its development and social progress.
mr president, i would like to recall in this debate the process of the convention on the future of europe, which would lay the foundations for a so-called european constitution. a farce that was then exposed by the rejection in several referendums, and the european union disrespected the results of these processes of popular suffrage, then imposing the treaty of lisbon. they now intend to repeat in broad terms the deception operation launched then. it is therefore necessary once again to defend the reversibility of the treaties, starting with the treaty of lisbon and including the treaty on budgets and the neoliberal, federalist and militarist matrix contained therein. we defend the inalienable right of every people to debate and express itself in an informed manner, including by referendum, on the content and purpose of current and future agreements and treaties. what is needed is to defend a process of genuine cooperation between sovereign and equal states and a europe which defends sovereignty and democracy, rights, and makes possible alternative paths to the future, justice, progress and peace. (the speaker agrees to reply to an intervention under the 'blue card' procedure)
the answer is "blue card". (start of the speech with the microphone off) ... yes, we are internationalists but we are also defenders of the sovereignty of each people, and of each people to decide what their future will be. and what this project has shown us, also by its federalist, militarist and neoliberal matrix, what has been happening, are the asymmetries of development between different states, the question also of the increase of inequalities and the question of the prevalence of some states that dominate others. and what the unanimity rule would do is to accentuate this tendency even more, while at the same time it would not solve the problem of the workers and the peoples.
mr president, the convening of this convention is the logical consequence of the conference on the future of europe, the only way we can honour the commitments we have made to the citizens. but that requires more political ambition and that requires not doing more of the same. but i wanted to make two points. firstly, the need and the possibility of making greater use of the doors opened by the treaty of lisbon in the area of moving from unanimity to qualified majority voting, for example in taxation policy, or doing more in defence policy. a second point: the convention cannot delay political decisions, in particular the review of the rules of economic governance and the stability and growth pact. these measures, these decisions, can be taken within the framework of the existing treaties and must be taken with all the urgency.
mr president, commissioner, forced labour is a serious abuse of human rights. women, children and men are victims of forced labour in many countries, on all continents, as you mentioned in your opening remarks. it must be fought and eradicated once and for all. without action and concrete measures there will be no results. the european union must use all the instruments at its disposal to combat this. trade policy, of course. banning products made with forced labor is a contribution. the creation of a new trade instrument prohibiting the import and export of products manufactured or transported using forced labour, along with the rules on the duty of care for the sustainability of enterprises, is essential. that is our request to the commission. it is time to ban forced labour once and for all.
mr president, where mr paulo rangel sees hesitation, we see consistency, clarity and firmness in the aim of giving a european perspective to ukraine, moldova and georgia. but we have not forgotten the western balkans, and we have not forgotten the fact that north macedonia and albania have fulfilled all the conditions imposed on them by the council for their first intergovernmental conference and are still standing today. they have been waiting for two years, although everyone acknowledges that all the conditions have in fact been met. yesterday, we received a letter signed by 1,000 young people from the western balkans. i hope, mr minister, that tomorrow in the council chamber, if they do not hear each other's voices, if they do not hear our voices, they will at least hear the voices of those 1000 young people from all the countries of the western balkans who have together called for the first intergovernmental conference to finally be given the green light.
it’s the colour of my football team; it’s a good colour! (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
answer blue card. there is no contradiction. there is clarity, there is firmness and there is no ambiguity in saying that this is not an easy process, in saying that we must not create false expectations, but also in saying that we must give a european perspective. all the rest are interpretations by mr paulo rangel. with all due respect.
madam president, sustainable development is not a soundbite or a fad today, but rather a fundamental necessity to ensure the harmonious development of society and social cohesion across generations, geographies and communities. the european union cannot just reaffirm a theoretical commitment to the 17 sustainable development goals, it has to put them into practice and assess their performance. and it should assess its performance because the sustainable development goals are not a political campaign or a media figure, they are the visible face of an environmental, social and economic strategy that aims to raise the quality of life for all. the present situation in europe is difficult. war, food prices and other extreme weather events require concrete action in response. we therefore need more coordination and more capacity to respond to problems, which is also the best way to respond effectively to the populism that continues to plague europe.
madam president, the recovery and resilience mechanism is one of the engines of the economic recovery we want for europe. but it is not the only one. the commitment of national governments to more and better public investment is also essential. i am therefore surprised to see so much reluctance on the part of some heads of government to review the rules of economic governance. maybe it's selfishness on the part of some or opportunism on the part of others. maybe some of them want to please the electorate. perhaps others are more concerned about the presidency of the european council. we can discuss the adequacy and timing of the mechanism, but we must not waste time that could be invested in the implementation of the national plans. a lot of them are late. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, if there is a problem with the climate ambition of the recovery and resilience fund, it is the lack of ambition, not the successes. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the financial control of the financial sector in the union. and it's curious that those who in the past have helped to postpone climate targets in the european union are now presenting that perspective as realistic. if we had done it a little earlier, we would not be in the situation of dependence we are in today. it's a curiously realistic perspective this. the one that chooses to ignore not just the scientific evidence surrounding the climate change emergency, but the very extreme weather events that we're already feeling today, that are already unfolding before our eyes, that these political forces insist on ignoring and insist on not seeing. they also insist on not understanding that the future of the european economy depends on the acceleration of our continent's energy and industrial transition. it certainly cannot help but postpone this inevitable transition by allowing others to make it first.
(start of intervention with microphone off) i'm raising three points today. the first one, the war in ukraine, has not reduced, cannot reduce our ambitions as mrr in the post-covid era, in terms of climate and digital transition and more cohesive economies and regions. secondly, the proposal needed by the european commission to create repowereu will revolutionize the mff and the cfp. i have already mentioned this in the previous debate. we must draw the consequences and draw the line. finally, a calendar. it is clear today that a number of factors, some external to the member states themselves, such as inflation or the evolution of raw material and energy prices, are preventing the nextgenerationeu 2023-2026 timetable from being met. i therefore leave the committee with a call, mr gentiloni, to do what is necessary to review this timetable to ensure that we achieve the political, economic and social objectives of the mrr.
in writing. three decades ago, the erasmus programme, one of the european union's most important mechanisms, was born. if this was a programme aimed at exchanging experiences between young people, it should also be a programme that promotes inclusion, diversity, equal opportunities and accessibility. the covid-19 pandemic has had a negative impact on education and, consequently, on the implementation of this programme. however, recent measures adopted by the european commission in the 2021-2027 framework will increase diversity and inclusion in the current erasmus+ and european solidarity corps programmes. making the current programme more inclusive, with the capacity to reach the most vulnerable and disadvantaged people, and further facilitating the participation of local and smaller organisations, in particular the outermost, island, mountain and rural and less accessible regions, by adapting it to the current social and economic contexts, should be a priority. only in this way will it be possible to safeguard a fair distribution of resources and projects in each member state and to provide equal opportunities for all, including the most vulnerable and disadvantaged groups, so as to leave no one behind.
in writing. the erasmus+ regulation, for the period 2014-2020, wanted to focus on promoting social inclusion and participation of people with special needs or fewer opportunities, as defined in the erasmus+ programme's inclusion and diversity strategy, covering people with disabilities, health problems, educational difficulties, cultural differences and economic, geographical and social obstacles. erasmus is one of the mobility programmes that attracts young people for exchanges. over the years, the programme has been modified, but it remains not accessible to all. without the financial backing to finance the period outside their country of origin (tuition fees, accommodation, food), only those with the greatest financial resources benefit from this mobility. for students with the greatest financial difficulties who are already displaced in their own country, erasmus is a mirage indeed. one of the obstacles to accessibility to the erasmus programme is precisely the problem of housing, which this report does not mention. the lack of university housing and the astronomical prices faced by displaced students and families, together with the low value of scholarships, are impediments to experiencing this experience during the period of study. there have been improvements, but we need to make sure that the programme is really accessible to everyone.
mr president, in 2012, the rutte ii government came to power in the netherlands. there was astonishment abroad, for how could a prime minister who made the election promise to respect european budgetary standards be re-elected? 16 billion was cut and burdens were added. the aow age was increased at an accelerated rate, the mortgage interest deduction was limited. the excise duties on fuel were the highest in the eu. the labour market, health care, education, every sector was hit, but the dutch were told 'after the sour comes the sweet, because it must come from europe'. and what did we see last week, when the ecb announced that it would raise interest rates by just 25 basis points? member states in financial difficulty. can someone explain this to the dutch? how is it that debts in southern europe have actually increased further? how can you justify this to the dutch? there is something brewing in the netherlands, a sense of injustice. if you are not careful, europe's self-proclaimed frontrunner will turn into a head-scratcher.
madam president, since 2009, we have asked the european commission seven times about the formation of fuel prices, more specifically about the reliability and reasonableness of a fuel price-setting process, which gives a private company the power to determine those prices on the market. we have heard that there are ongoing investigations into cartel use and we wanted to know what the conclusions were and how much consumers were affected. the absence of concrete responses from the european commission to evidence of collusion and cartel in fuel pricing raises other questions: what is the purpose of the directorate-general for competition and the commissioner who guards it? it is energetic in monitoring the contracts and policies of the states, lazy when the interests of multinationals are at stake and, in the present situation, passive in the face of the evidence of the opportunistic and speculative exploitation of refining margins by the world's major oil companies in fixing international fossil fuel quotations. we will continue to press for answers, because the people cannot pay for this market scam.
madam president, colleagues, we are today 22 june, the day nazi germany attacked the soviet union 91 years ago. in one week they were already in riga. i sounded, one month ago, the alarm about the decision of riga city council to demolish the monument to the liberators of riga and latvia from nazi occupation. but last thursday, the parliament of latvia passed the law that provides for the dismantling in the whole territory of latvia of about 300 of this kind of monuments by 15 november. i see this decision as a provocation on both the short—term and long—term scales. society is sharply divided on the issue. according to a recent public opinion poll, only 70% are supporting ‘dismantle’, while 40% are against and 30% undecided. the demolition of monuments will turn on historical time, and the insult will remain for decades in the memory of generations of children and grandchildren of the soldiers who defeated nazism. it will split latvian society further and it’s very dangerous.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a former chairman of the israeli delegation i can only applaud the abraham accords, which have projected the possibility of a new peace in the middle east region and, above all, have made the united arab emirates known to the european union, their capacity to raise new generations who preach tolerance, respect for religions, their capacity to propose school programmes which raise new generations who are focused on the values of peace and tolerance. the curricula, in fact, provide for the fight against jihadism, provide for a deep religious respect and these curricula are cutting-edge and are the basis essentially for why these historic abrahamic agreements were reached. the european union must make the most of these agreements, and look to the possibility of finding a new peace in the middle east, starting from the abraham accords.
madam president, the european union is already in its sixth package of sanctions against russia for its invasion of ukraine. but in the fisheries sector, i believe we can go further. overall, we import about 2.5% of russia's fish and fishery products, worth eur 605 million annually. it is true that there is already a ban on caviar imports, but this ban is merely symbolic, as exports to the european market are reduced. the european union is putting aside its boycott of products such as cod and alaskan kingfish, thus providing a breathing gas for the russian fishing industry and the moscow regime itself. it is true that a total blockade of fish imports from russia will not end the invasion, but every effort is needed to isolate the russian federation and to ensure that european funding for putin's criminal war comes to an end.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have to say, reality can be surprising. because it was hard to imagine, say a year ago, that one of the leaders of the green party in europe, the staunch climate activist, now the vice chancellor of germany, would announce the re-launch of coal-fired power plants. it was hard to expect that this parliament, which had set itself the task of fighting the fossil fuel crisis heroically and without compromise, would support the obligation to fill gas storage facilities throughout the union. this return to realism is something worth supporting and i would like to thank all my colleagues, prime minister buzko for the excellent cooperation. however, as ecr we cannot vote for such an agreement. that's because the gas we're going to fill these tanks with is going to come mainly from russia. and that means that in the crucial months of the war, we're going to support russia with additional money. and it's probably in rubles - because some countries pay in rubles, as you know - contributing to russia's further war crimes, and maybe even to its victory. the amendment, which was being prepared in a hurry, could have helped to reduce the financial flow that fuels russia's war in europe. but the decision to create reserves from other sources, or at least to give priority to these other sources, was too bold for the main political groups in this parliament and, above all, for the council. although we would then be out of our heads, at least not by creating an incentive through this regulation - and this is unfortunately the case - to buy even more gas from russia. meanwhile, as we know, russia is slowly turning the corner, showing its strength, and we are helpless and talking about the goals for the next ten, twenty years, without responding appropriately in this situation.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the present situation shows that the security of energy supply must not be dependent on market contingencies which, as has been seen, threaten it. in the absence of public control of the sector, when market conditions are not attractive for private operators to supply the minimum levels deemed necessary for security of supply reasons, the state is called upon to foot the bill. if people are paying double for the storage targets on the one hand and the already high gas bills on the other, why do they insist on this market logic? the process of privatisation and liberalisation of the energy sector, which has done so much harm to the people, is being reversed. this agreement and its urgent procedure have their origin in the sanctions imposed on russia, which, it is assumed, affect the european peoples severely and, if they benefit anyone, it is only the united states of america. and hence also this need or obligation of countries to secure certain levels of energy reserves, running the risk of replacing one dependency with another and adding harmful environmental impacts.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the 15% minimum effective tax on multinational income seems increasingly to be a european requirement. the second pillar of the oecd agreement is less and less global. on the other side of the atlantic, in the united states, we have already realised that the implementation of the agreement is a mirage. on this side, the advances and setbacks are evident and we still have a long way to go in the legislation on the first pillar. he's agreed to a 15% tax, but it's still unclear how we're going to do it. the commission's proposal on the rate is balanced and responsible, and parliament's opinion, which has now been adopted, is realistic and appropriate. the council, the decision-maker, is missing. from eight states opposing it, we've gone from four. at that time, only poland blocked it and now we have the hungarian veto. it seems to me that this directive is more a bargaining chip than a priority for the member states. the portuguese minister of finance is wrong. it is not essential to eliminate tax competition, but to ensure that it is fair, fair and transparent. some are doing their part and we can only hope that hungary will be responsible for once and that the council will be firm once and for all. that's what we asked for. that is what the europeans are demanding.
mr president, i would remind you that we have been subjected frequently or systematically to vetoes or threats of vetoes by several member states of the european union. it happened with the signing of the paris agreement by poland so that the european union could sign on behalf of the european union, with the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework, with poland's acceptance of this global tax and we are now confronted with the position of hungary. i do not think the european union can legislate on this basis. that is why the european commission must necessarily invoke article 116 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union if it is to be able to effectively overcome this deadlock. we cannot continue to be systematically blackmailed by a member state of the european union. i would also like to remind you that there is one aspect here that we must not forget, which is the contribution of this levy to the own resources, to the reimbursement of nextgenerationeu.
madam president, my speech concerns rule 39 of the rules of procedure and the strike by the interpreters, whose extraordinarily reasonable demands were distributed to all members at the entrance to the chamber. these demands are aimed at dealing with the deterioration of working conditions, which is having increasingly serious and widespread consequences for the health of these parliament's workers, and also at dealing with the very serious situation of two committees, agri and, surprisingly, afco, which have already decided to hire outside services to break this strike of interpreters. i would therefore ask the president of the european parliament to firstly stop immediately the use of external companies to replace the interpreters of the european parliament and secondly to make all the necessary efforts to solve these problems of working conditions so that we can all work in the best possible conditions without any consequences for the health of our workers. i would stress that the european parliament should set the best examples in this area and not copy the worst practices of the worst employers.
ok, so the debate this week and the resolution in september. (parliament rejected the request)the agenda therefore remains unchanged. the agenda is adopted and the order of business is thus established.
member of the commission. – madam president, my colleague executive vice-president dombrovskis addressed this chamber on behalf of high representative / vice-president borrell on this issue on 6 june. since then, on 24 june, the us supreme court overruled the right to abortion established in the roe v. wade decision of 1973. the june decision returns the right to regulate abortion completely to the state level. thirteen states have enacted trigger laws that have already or will soon limit or ban completely access to abortion. so it is estimated that all together, 20 states may enact total bans or severe gestational limits on abortion. president biden has condemned the ruling. he has indicated a preference for congress to codify federal privacy and abortion rights. his administration, including the departments of state and defense, are also exploring ways to ensure access to sexual and reproductive healthcare for service members, their families and their civilian workforce, as permitted by federal law. the ruling constitutes a rollback of a longstanding legal standard in the us concerning reproductive rights, impacting the lives of many women and in particular, those in the most vulnerable situations. it is a reminder that hard-won rights cannot be taken as a given anywhere. the eu is committed to the implementation of its obligations in relation to the human rights of girls and women arising from key frameworks, including the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, the beijing platform for action, the cairo declaration on population and development and their respective outcome reviews. un treaty body jurisprudence has indicated that denying women access to abortion can amount to violations of the rights to healthcare, privacy, and in certain cases, the right to be free from cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment. the un human rights committee has confirmed that although state parties may adopt measures designed to regulate voluntary terminations of pregnancy, such measures must not result in violation of the right to life of a pregnant woman or girl or her other rights under the covenant. through cooperation actions, dialogue and other initiatives the eu supports the full enjoyment of sexual and reproductive health and rights in countries across the globe. this means enabling women and girls to ensure bodily autonomy, free choice over their bodies, free from discrimination, coercion and violence, and to lead healthy lives. in the eu action plan on human rights and democracy and the eu gender action plan iii the eu has committed to scaling up action to achieve gender equality, to protect and promote the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights by all women and girls and their socioeconomic empowerment free from all forms of discrimination, while applying a gender responsive approach. in the european union sexual and reproductive healthcare is a member state responsibility. while the commission fully recognises every person’s fundamental right of equal access to high-quality health care, all women across the eu should have adequate access to good-quality healthcare and treatment. sexual and reproductive health is part of it. one of the objectives of the eu4health programme is to improve and foster health in the union to reduce the burden of communicable and non-communicable diseases, amongst others, by promoting access to healthcare. this includes access to sexual and reproductive healthcare. so the programme may support member states’ actions to promote access to sexual and reproductive healthcare and to support integrated and intersectional approaches to prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care where such actions are included in the annual work programme of the eu4health programme. we also support regular exchanges between member states and stakeholders on gender equality topics, such as gender equality and health, under the mutual learning programme in gender equality. we continue to fund civil society organisations working on gender equality, including on sexual and reproductive health and rights. and we provide full support to member states’ efforts in implementing the united nations sustainable development goals relevant to women’s health: universal access to sexual and reproductive care, family planning and education. women living in the eu must be equal and free in all aspects of their lives to choose the life they want in order to live, thrive and participate in all aspects of society. strong women’s rights are an asset and a key feature of democracies. it is an achievement we must be proud of and nurture, as it can be easily lost.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the decision of the supreme court of the united states of america to abolish women's right to a conditional abortion after 50 years is a huge blow to the protection of human rights on a global scale, because this right along with contraception (1965) and the decriminalization of same-sex relations (2003) are enshrined in the same article of the constitution of the united states of america. in addition, the judicial majority that resulted in the anachronistic regulation is in complete contrast to the american society that is in favor of the right with a percentage of 60%. but beyond its backwardness, the supreme court's decision is clearly dangerous, for it misjudged what is happening in the world today, including, for example, that 60% of 121 million "unintended" pregnancies end in abortion; whereas the decriminalisation of abortion does not act as a deterrent but rather leads to unsafe medical services for pregnant women; whereas bans and restrictions introduce inequalities between economically weak women who are unable to go to neighbouring countries to solve their problem; whereas complications during pregnancy or childbirth are responsible for the death of adolescents aged 15 to 19 years; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has an obligation to take decisions that unite and not divide. the member states should, in an organised manner and with due regard for subsidiarity, decriminalise abortion, combat sexual violence effectively, and educate adolescents about sexuality, contraception, pregnancy, medical services and postnatal care. the world is changing, ladies and gentlemen, and we in the european union of democratic values are looking to the next generations with seriousness and responsibility. fundamental human rights, secured by years of struggle, require and will be protected by us all the time.
madam president, when margaret atwood wrote the handmaid's tale in 1985, we all thought it was science fiction. he was talking about the future, a future country where there was a total ban on abortion, because the only function of women was to have children. and the author herself, a few days ago, complained that the united states supreme court had made her novel a reality. in the most powerful country in the world, women have no power over their own bodies. a court, made up mostly of older, male, backward men, anchored in the past, has decided on the young women of the 21st century. a woman, a girl who becomes pregnant as a result of rape or a failed relationship without consent, a mother's life in danger or a fetus with no chance of survival - none of that matters. all that matters is that the child is born, even without considering that he may be a child without a mother or that he may be a child in a family of no means, with great needs. they force women to have unwanted children, but they don't help them do anything else. in the united states the right to bear arms is unquestioned, a woman's right to decide about her own body does not exist. abortion does not disappear by banning it, only the safe conditions for abortion disappear, which becomes clandestine, in conditions that are often dangerous to women's lives. women who have resources will go to other countries and those who don't will have to put their lives in danger. the right to abortion is an inalienable human right. the socialist group has repeatedly called for sexual and reproductive rights, including the right to safe and legal abortion, to be included in the charter of fundamental rights of the union. women of the united states, women of the world, you are not alone. we will continue to fight together, because there are many women who are aware of how important it is to fight for our rights, so that our daughters cannot have less rights than our mothers.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, colleagues, in the state of ohio, a 10-year-old girl has just been denied an abortion. yes, you heard me right: a 10-year-old girl. the child-abuse doctor who was taking care of her had to arrange a referral to indiana, a state where soon abortion could also be criminalised. denying abortion care to a 10-year-old victim of rape is not a policy based on another person’s political opinion. it is a form of state-supported, gender-based violence. forcing a 10-year-old victim of rape to go through with a pregnancy is simply brutal. but cases like this will be the outcome if we do not stand up to the aggressive authoritarian backlash that we are facing right now. we cannot simply wait and see. we have to act, and we have to act now to stabilise and strengthen our fundamental rights to bodily autonomy, to protect us, to protect our children and future generations before it is too late.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the end of roe v wade in the united states is a return to sanity after fifty years of confusion and helplessness due to a misunderstanding of the concept of freedom. the defense of life has had a central place in your nation's culture and history. there is therefore no constitutional recognition of the right to abortion. this sentence invites us to reflect, to look at the reality of abortion, without the fancy words that cloud consciences or ideological premises that denature women and push us to despise love and life. during pregnancy there is a tiny reality: obvious. it is illogical to think that if you want it, it is a baby, and if not, then it is discarded, as if it were an object. open yourself to a new way of understanding life. do not be afraid. if the spiritual and transcendent dimension is missing, if we value only the material dimension, human existence is instrumentalized and relationships are commodified. the protection of life cannot be questioned, it does not depend on circumstances. failure to do so is a disadvantage to all of us, especially the most vulnerable. the guarantee of the security of human rights lies in affirming life.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the retrogressions and advances in the way societies have looked at the practice of abortion are inextricably linked to the retrogressions and advances in the status of women. abortion must be seen as a public health problem and as a matter linked to women's fundamental rights. the struggle of women for access to sexual and reproductive rights and the control of their sexuality is a centuries-old struggle that has been persecuted and continues, unfortunately, to this day. the damaging effects and the dire consequences that this decision will have on the human dignity and reproductive health of american women should outrag us all, women and men, for whom demanding participation and taking a stand is an act of conscious citizenship in defending women's rights. equality must be full, concrete, and there is no equality without rights. we hereby express our solidarity with the women who are feeling the effects of these unacceptable setbacks, in the certainty that no rights are lost forever.
mr president, commissioners, as legislators, it is good to know that we can decide quickly when to commit ourselves to this. after two decades of almost no regulation, we have reached a new phase in the life of online platforms and digital markets, with regulation that protects the interests of users, who can choose their messaging service, of small businesses, who have suffered from unfair competition from the very platforms where they sell their products, and of society in general, who suffers from the negative systemic effects of the excessive power of the big platforms. for now, however, these diplomas are nothing but paper tigers. to be more than that and to make a difference we need an appropriate level of resources for the national authorities and the european commission responsible for its implementation. today we have taken a step, but only when we have achieved the results that led us to approve these diplomas can we say that our mission, together, has been fulfilled.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, croatia's accession to the euro is a sign of unity and of increasing integration into the european union, of a further enlargement of monetary union and of the strengthening of the euro as a global currency. the single currency is still seen as a solid project for the future and as a guarantee of greater security and stability for the member states. croatia has fulfilled all the criteria for accession. the entry into the group of countries with the highest level of european integration is a historic step for the country. it is now up to croatian citizens and institutions to fully reap the benefits of being in a robust monetary union to make the economy and society more resilient, stronger, more competitive and even more european. croatia's accession to the single currency in 2023 is the first european integration process since brexit. finally, as chairman of the working party on the candidate countries for the euro in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i would like to congratulate croatia on this progress and hope that others will follow.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs cresson, for her excellent report, and also for the fact that she has been able to give us a very good report on the subject. she was from cape verde and had emigrated to portugal because the father of her children had disappeared without a word. she left the children with her grandmother on an island in santiago, and came to look for resources, cleaning houses in the city and its surroundings on the hour. when i found her, it was seven in the morning, but for her the day had started two hours earlier in a very poor neighborhood on the south bank of the tagus river where she lived, and she still had an hour of transportation to get to her first job. her day would end very late, with two more hours to go. we often speak in technical jargon of the sociological concept of intersectionality. for those of you who don't know what that means, this is exactly what i've just described to you: being a woman and at the same time a single mother, an immigrant from africa, uneducated, precarious and poor. no union to defend their rights, no life to have supportive friends, almost invisible. it is for this and many other reasons that we are here today to discuss women's poverty and how to reduce it. for my part, when i vote in favour of this report, i feel that i will be fulfilling at least part of the promise i made to margarida on that day in may 2019.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! poverty in the european union has a woman's face. the poverty of women is due to a number of factors. it's not just lower wages and pensions, age discrimination, low-wage jobs and precarious conditions, but also economic violence, unpaid domestic work and single motherhood. as many as 85% of single parents are women. and one in four children in europe is at risk of poverty. women are said to be poverty managers, managing the household budget, looking for opportunities, extra employment, cutting costs. so, working for and investing in women is an investment in their families, and especially their children. it is women who are the future of europe. it's up to them, or us, to make its demographic growth. but in the context of ageing european societies, it is also worth remembering that they play a key role and dominate quantitatively in the health and care services sectors. i thank the rapporteur for her constructive and good work.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the fight against poverty and social exclusion is inseparable from the eradication of specific discrimination which mainly affects women and children. in this regard, specific social measures are needed with regard to access to housing, transport, justice and affordable energy. we believe that the right to work is an essential condition for economic independence, for the professional development of women and for the realisation of equal rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we must value occupations, salaries, careers and, of course, pensions. we also advocate the strengthening of public services, with a clear commitment to a universal and free national health service, a democratic public school system guaranteeing equal rights and opportunities for all and a stronger public social security system. these measures are not in keeping with the neoliberal policies of the european union, but for us they are the way to combat poverty and guarantee a better future for women today and tomorrow.
madam president, commissioner, mr rapporteur, the eu's relationship with the indo-pacific, whether geostrategic or trade, has become even more important. a relationship which must be based on universal values, respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. based on the multilateral international order, based on rules like reciprocity and mutual benefit, with a modernized world trade organization. this partnership goes through all relevant actors in the indo-pacific, with sub-regional dynamics and specificities, partnerships for common global challenges, such as combating climate change, preserving biodiversity, digital transition for states, citizens and businesses. finally, it requires us to mobilise all the tools to promote a more social, inclusive, coherent and rules-based global order.
madam president, on 10 july the united nations security council will vote on the renewal of the bab al-hawa humanitarian aid corridor, the only way for international aid to reach the syrian people after russia blocked the other three corridors in 2020. every month hundreds of trucks carry goods essential for the survival of the people of the idlib region. in may, more than 1,000 trucks crossed this border. there is a well-founded fear that, due to the current geopolitical situation, this authorisation will be called into question by russia in retaliation against the sanctions imposed in response to the invasion of ukraine. we call on the european union to condemn a priori and to oppose vigorously any attempt to politicise humanitarian aid to the syrian people. the survival of 4 million people is at stake. we cannot turn a blind eye to this tragedy. the syrian people cannot be abandoned.
madam president, following the decision of the extradition court to the united states of america and the subsequent assent of secretary pretty patel, last friday, julian assange filed an appeal with the supreme court against his extradition order. yesterday, on the day of his 51st birthday, the last of ten years in captivity, there were expressions of solidarity all over the world, including in lisbon, where we were, calling once again for assange's release, denouncing and rejecting a decision that aims to impose an unacceptable pressure to condition the release of information of public interest. we cannot help but notice the silence of the european union institutions, in contrast to other situations concerning this case and the disclosure of information, among others, on the war in iraq and afghanistan, exposing violations of international law, including war crimes. in solidarity with julian assange, we will continue to demand the refusal of his extradition and the annulment of the charges against assange and his immediate release.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, throughout our lives almost all of us will care for or be cared for by someone. it is time we recognized that this task is crucial to the well-being of the society in which we live. in the european case, taking into account demographic trends, this will be the case more and more and it is women who provide the vast majority of care tasks. let us hope that this situation will change. it is estimated that women spend, on average, 3.2 times as many hours as men on unpaid care duties. and all of this leaves 7.7 million women out of the labor force. our challenge, our great challenge, is how to change this paradigm, which is also cultural, which starts in the family and ends in the labor market. so we need to look at education, showing our boys that caring for others is not just a woman's thing. we must then value care tasks. ensure public investment wherever necessary. paying fairly for this work and giving dignity to these tasks, recognizing the rights of those who care. in portugal, for example, the informal carer statute has been established, which guarantees a support allowance, rest periods and access to training. i am glad to know that the commission will be ambitious in its strategy. we need a european pact for care, with the certainty that each of us will one day benefit from this effort.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the report makes important references to investment in public care services and the rights of formal and informal carers, with particular attention to the overwhelming majority who are women and, in many cases, migrants. the main limitation of this report is that it does not have enough implications for the rules of economic governance and for the transformation of the european semester. the committee on social affairs continues to remain aloof from these matters, which are of the utmost importance and without which this report risks being a set of declarations of intent with little political consequence. but we also have differences in intentions, and it is important to look at what the right wing proposes in their amendments and separate votes that come out of this report: the reference to any legislative proposals, the reference to gender pay gap, the reference to the european funding line or even the importance of funding public services, and the reference to non-commercialization of care. and it's important for us to realize that we're not all in agreement. some people want public care services to support everyone, and some people just want to take care of the industry.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is as usual when we discuss reports from the social committee: there is always a great outcry, europe exceeding its powers, an attack on national competences. yes, of course, when it comes to health, when it comes to care, it's primarily a national responsibility. but we as the european union cannot simply say, on a subject which is profoundly european and where we are facing the same challenges everywhere, or almost everywhere, 'yes, then take care of it and we will put our feet up in the air'. if you look at the european labour market, if you look at what's going on in the care market, there's hardly a second sector that's as highly mobile. what kind of german nursing home could there be if we had only german nurses? that is why i think it is essential that we contribute to improving standards, to bringing care out of the shadows, partly out of illegality, out of the black economy, and to contribute to improving standards and, above all, to combating the shortage of skilled workers effectively. we are contributing to that. i would like to thank the rapporteurs very warmly for this.
mr president, two years ago, after the pandemic, in the state of the union address, president ursula von der leyen announced that she would present a european strategy for care, because we had been able to highlight the importance of care, of carers and of the beneficiaries of this care during the pandemic. the commissioner has told us that this strategy will be presented on 7 september. every man and woman can and should receive the best possible care and thus achieve the best possible balance of life. it must be a european and also a national priority. it is a necessary and fundamental investment. we must therefore strengthen this care system, applying what the european pillar of social rights said. this care has to be accessible, affordable and of quality. they affect us all. 80% of care is provided by women. so we're going to have to do that by combining the gender equality strategy and the disability strategy. a europe that cares for its own is a europe that pays more attention to both the people who receive care and those who care for them. i therefore fully support this strategy, because it means that we will live up to european values.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that there are three main areas in which we must act in the field of care. of course, that is a matter for the member states. i know very well the problem in my country and in the countries of the east. we have a problem, on the one hand, with people who do the act of caring, very often they are treated without dignity, they don't have a work contract. we know that from the east, a lot of people went to the west to get more money and do this act of care. on the other hand, we have the nursing problem. so many times, the act of care is not quality, and we have the infrastructure problem. commissioner, if we do not include in the european strategy the budget for allocating money for infrastructure, because, for example, in my country we do not have the capacity for elderly people who cannot be cared for by their families and who need these centres, homes for the elderly, where they can be properly cared for, we will not be able to solve the situation. i have been trying for several years to convince the commission that this should be allocated, and the answer we receive systematically from the commission, that elderly people should be cared for in the family, is absolutely absurd, because they are people who have no place in the family, who no longer have families, and for this we must allocate budgets from the social budget, from the social fund, so that we can have places for these people who deserve our respect until the last day of their lives.
mr president, for decades right-wing policy choices and the prevalence of the criteria of deficit and debt over social justice have dictated public disinvestment in the social functions of the state, the discharge of the state's responsibility for promoting the welfare and protection of the population and the commodification of care, both in health and education. the absence or lack of an adequate, universal and free public response to these issues has led to thousands of people, mostly women, taking on the informal and individual responsibility of caring for close relatives, shifting the full responsibility for the people they care for onto their shoulders, subjecting themselves to brutal physical and psychological overload and depriving them of their personal and professional lives. we advocate the strengthening or creation of robust public networks of proximity, adequately equipped with financial, technical, material, infrastructural and human resources, decent working conditions, career development prospects and fair wages, protection and support for informal carers with psychosocial support and social protection, training and empowerment. it is time for the states to take care of carers and the people they care for.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the pandemic has shown that the digital world of work is far from the paradise it was once promised. the reality of the dilution of working hours, the separation of work and family life, the reality of abuse, harassment and pressure on workers involved in digital labour relations shows the importance of achieving the pre- and post-incident accountability of employers. and it is very important, and it was difficult, that that accountability should be in this report. and that is why it is also essential that the proposals from the right to remove from the report references to the need to regulate the right to leave, the need to regulate teleworking and the need to update the list of occupational diseases are rejected. if these amendments proposed by the right are adopted, this report, which is already a modest report, will be a setback in the fight for mental health in the world of work, and that is why it is important that they be rejected.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall also be speaking in portuguese. i was listening in portuguese, but i will also speak in portuguese so that our fellow citizens, also in my country, can hear us. we are facing a huge risk of an economic and social crisis in europe. many european households and businesses will need solidarity to ensure that they have access to energy at reasonable prices, to buy fuel to heat their homes. it's time to act. we look forward, commissioner, to timely proposals from the commission in the summer to prepare properly for the winter in the european union. take the example of bulgaria: the average family of three spends a quarter of their income on energy. the forecasts are for a 30% increase in the cost of energy to heat your homes next winter. however, this will be the case in most member states: prices of food, transport, housing and fuel. the risks of shutdowns of companies due to restrictions on gas supply are also very real. a coordinated response between the european institutions and the social partners must therefore be on the table. we therefore call for a social summit to be convened in the coming months. we need to temporarily control energy prices, as we have done in the iberian peninsula, because prices no longer reflect normal market conditions and they are hurting citizens and the economy. we need to support european households at risk of poverty because of these energy prices. we need to support the millions of ukrainian refugees in europe. they're not here because they want to be, they're fleeing a war, and they deserve to be properly supported. we need to keep the sure mechanism active because of the risks of temporary unemployment throughout this crisis. and to finance all this effort, we need to apply in a coordinated way at european level a tax on the absurdly high profits of many companies, including energy companies, in the context of this crisis. this will enable us to finance all these european initiatives. there's no faking it or postponing it. we need to now build the answers. this is another great test for the european union that lies ahead of us. let us rise to the occasion, because the citizens expect our support immediately before winter.
the portuguese presidency of the council of the eu, through the porto social summit, has put social welfare issues back at the top of the political agenda. one year on, the target remains - now exacerbated by the war - of employing 78% of the working age population (20-64) by 2030, of having 60% of all adults participate in training at least once a year and of reducing by 15 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. fighting for an increase in the employment rate and reducing the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, promoting equality and inclusion, strengthening europe's social dimension in order to also address the challenges of climate change and the digital transition, must remain at the top of the priorities, at the risk of increasing social inequalities in the face of the current escalation of prices. the number of people at risk of poverty is predominant in the outermost regions, such as madeira, which has percentages well above the eu and national indices. support should be provided to these regions in implementing the european pillar of social rights and in meeting the objectives of the porto summit on employment, skills and poverty reduction.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. fellow workers! the social economy comprises a range of different actors that are united by activities for the benefit of local communities and the common good. moreover, the social economy is our ally in the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. the sector contributes to the creation of quality jobs, the promotion of equal opportunities, the creation of a safe and well-adapted working environment and social dialogue. that is why it is so important to adopt an action plan for the social economy. in order to support the sector, it is essential to ensure easier access to finance, including from the union, so that social economy operators can not only carry out their daily activities, but also introduce social innovations and cope more effectively with crisis situations. the launch of a single portal dedicated to the social economy, which will provide its actors with access to information on support, initiatives and policies, is also important. we should also pay particular attention to promoting the social economy and put more emphasis on the flow of good practices in creating the right environment for the functioning of the social economy and stimulating its development through capacity building, providing access to consultancy, coaching, training and legal advice.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, support for the social economy is strengthening social europe. these bodies are fundamental to the promotion of the quality of life of our citizens and of territorial, economic and social cohesion. they are a show of solidarity: they favour and include. these are entities where we check the value of volunteering. entities that respond and are present in the most depopulated places, in rural areas and respond in times of difficulty. so, commissioner, we must support them, we must value them, and i know that you have made an effort to do so. but we must work with the member states to ensure that the enormous financial resources at their disposal are put to good use. recovery and resilience plans, cohesion and rural development funds should be available to those entities. they must be eligible, and so there is this request and this challenge: these entities must be supported and they must be valued.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the cañas report today and i thank the rapporteur very much. we discussed the lagodinsky report a few weeks ago, and another one is probably coming from the econ committee, which shows the extreme activity and attention of parliament on the subject of the social economy, and i say this on behalf of the social economy intergroup. but the big news alongside this commitment is the commission's action plan; i must thank commissioner schmit, and i do so everywhere, and the commission, but especially him, for having brought this matter to the attention of the commission for the first time, with the instruments to be put into practice, and also for having indicated to the member states what should be done. and here we wait for the council's statement. i must say that the french presidency has done a lot of work on this, the present presidency is a shining example of absence, and that is not a good sign, mr president, as you will have noticed, on a subject of this kind. so i think this is the time, really, to put the contribution of the social economy at the heart of european and national policies. there is a great crisis, it has been said, more crises, there is the experience of this sector, which is not only social services, it is now digital, it is now commitment to the green sector, in short it is an alternative business model. you can do business with a different, non-profit-oriented business model, and we desperately need that. i would like to end by mentioning the instruments, commissioner, you are very sensitive to this, all commissioners should be, from dg grow to dg connect, to all those who deal with the different sectors, as you are doing, as we urge you to do even more. we are his ally, because we really must put financial instruments into play. the commissioner responsible for finance must also take account of this specificity and the new financial instruments will also be appropriate for this sector. however, thanks to the colleagues in parliament who are working in this direction and thanks to commissioner schmit.
mr president, jordi, thank you for your commitment to this report, because to boost the social economy is to boost the resilience and transformation of the union: an environmental and digital transformation, but one that is people-centred. the social economy places women at the centre of entrepreneurship, takes care of their working conditions, promotes transparency and solidarity, places development at the heart of the local area and thus makes corporate social responsibility a natural consequence. it also restores to the financial system the role of instrument in the service of the productive economy which it should never have abandoned. it's not a fairy tale. many studies confirm this reality, which is very present in the basque country, and this is one of the reasons why our model of economic development with social development is so solid. in the basque country, the cooperative is the preferred choice of young people for work. nine out of ten people know one. two out of three have a known person working on one. and it's not strange if we remember that it's the largest industrial corporate corporation, with more than 80,000 employees and sales in 150 countries, in the basque country. in addition, basque companies, world leaders in their sector, are heavily participated by their workers. this european plan is therefore a powerful tool for building resilience on people. and in this connection, commissioner schmit, i would like to ask you whether you think that the basque country model can be a good practice for improving the values of the production system.
mr president, the eu action plan and the report we are discussing here start from a premise with which we cannot agree: calling the social sector the social economy. a deliberate political and ideological choice to market the provision of social care. the role of social solidarity institutions and cooperatives is undeniable. but both should not replace but complement the public responses of the states. we believe that the guarantee of social rights and social protection is a responsibility of the state. the social sector must provide a quality response which is universal, immediate and, in most cases, free of charge. social workers must be guaranteed the highest standards of labour and social rights, decent and fair pay and continuing training. responding to social ills and needs cannot be a mere act of welfare, charity or philanthropy, but rather a genuine and genuine commitment by the state to combating inequalities and the unfair distribution of wealth.
mr president, i am supporting the objection. i listened carefully to the arguments on all sides and, while i am sure that gas and nuclear have a role in the transition, i cannot identify these as sustainable. i genuinely fear for the diversion of investment away from renewables. we have just completed the corporate sustainability reporting directive, directing companies to invest in a sustainable and clean future. so on the one hand we are taking away with the taxonomy, and then giving with the csrd, and we’re sending mixed messages to business. on nuclear, the scheer committee was asked by the commission to review the joint research centre. it referred to aspects of the jrc report as simplistic and incomplete, and concluded that it overlooked the potential impact on marine and coastal areas. so i’m supporting the objection because the eu must lead in this area, and i believe that the eu can do better.
commissioner, thank you very much for the fact that you have prepared a delegated document which, in the first phase, identifies green technologies, technologies that enable the production of low-carbon electricity, as well as technologies that enable the transition to a low-carbon society. why would i support a document? because for the first time i/we are responsible for energy security and the irresponsible energy policy in germany, put forward by my socialist and green colleagues in 2000, has led us not only to energy but also to military dependence on putin. that is why i am voting in favour of this delegated act. nuclear power is low-carbon energy. today, 50% of all low-carbon energy produced in europe is nuclear. i am also in favour of the expansion of wind and solar energy, but unfortunately it does not make for a green transition, and the only way to make it is to use gas for the transition period and, in the longer term, nuclear energy. i support technology neutrality. i also support the view of the committee that, unlike batteries and solar cells, they do not affect our safety during operation or during storage, which is a prerequisite for nuclear energy, even in the long term. and i want equal treatment of these technologies, just one more sentence, but on the other hand, independence from russia, because today more than half of the gas is from america.
mr president, taxonomy is part of an approach which we disagree with. it is part of a process of financialization of the environment which involves, among other things, channelling significant financial flows to emerging businesses around the environment. according to the advocates of this market approach, the virtuosity of these businesses will lead to the achievement of environmental goals. the public authorities can only give the appropriate signals to the market, it will take care of the rest. taxonomy is intended to be that signal to the market. the european commission, as always, acts as a kind of notary of economic interests, which in this case are even contradictory. no one's surprised anymore, business as usual. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. (i'm finished) the problem is not just in any implicit list of choices, it goes far beyond that.
the proof that multilateralism is not dead is evidenced by the last meeting of wto ministers in geneva three weeks ago. would we have liked you to have gone further in your appointments? i'm not sure. but robust commitments were made. there was a political will, supported by 164 countries, to reform and modernise the wto. the wto is a multilateral organisation essential to regulating world trade and, consequently, to fairer globalisation. and the european union must have clear positions on these reforms. we need today, and this was visible in the context of the pandemic, as it is now in the context of the action of russia and ukraine, more and not less multilateralism. we need to work to avoid the fragmentation of the multilateral system. finally, reform of the wto within the multilateral system is a necessity if we are to continue to work towards rules-based, fair and sustainable trade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, mr president of the council, now absent but very attentive to the distance, the european council has taken historic decisions on the application for membership of ukraine, moldova and georgia, but has again frustrated the expectations of the western balkan countries. and above all, it is slow to act on the social consequences of this war here in europe. we're just gonna wait for things to get worse? are we going to wait for unemployment or for winter, when many families can't afford to heat their homes? i'm not going to. we must act now! limit speculative energy prices, support households and businesses that suffer most from the price of gas and fuels. support those who have been in solidarity with the millions of ukrainian refugees who deserve our support. i leave the leaders of the european council with a very simple appeal: do not wait for the west to put their hands on the wheel. the time to act is now.
i am not saying that the european union should be a party to the conflict, but i am saying that it should be a party to the conflict. what's rare is that this is done by one of the oldest and most respected democracies in the world. the folly of a fallen prime minister cannot be a reason to break the important agreement that had been achieved at such great cost. in doing so, mr boris johnson is putting at serious risk not only the brexit deal but also the relationship between the united kingdom and the european union. it is putting at risk the very credibility of the united kingdom as an international partner. moreover, it is even putting at risk, and this is very serious, the good friday agreements which brought peace to northern ireland. a few more hours or days in downing street doesn't make it right. boris johnson has to stop and he has to stop now.
madam president, commissioner, the eib plays a key role as the public bank of the european union: the climate bank. the green bank. i would like to congratulate the institution in the person of its president. the eib was fine. i give examples: sustainable finance as an operational model, with 43% of climate-related lending; almost €95 billion on climate change, social cohesion and digital transformation; supports over 430 000 smes employing 4.5 million people; supports key research and innovation projects; in response to the russian invasion of ukraine, an emergency solidarity package was approved. it is a financial institution that wants to be guided by the principles and by the common political priorities and objectives of the european union. but the european parliament wants more: it wants to play a role in post-war reconstruction efforts in ukraine; it wants to invest more in energy security and in strengthening the strategic autonomy of the european union; it wants to help prevent and contain growing inequalities by pursuing policies of sustainable growth and job creation. finally, the european parliament remains committed to strengthening its scrutiny of the eib. it is a key element in ensuring greater transparency and democratic accountability.
author. madam president, since the bolsonaro government took office in 2018, the rate of deforestation in the amazon has increased by about 75%. during this period there was also an increase in attacks and murders of environmentalists, human rights defenders, journalists and indigenous people, as well as cases of police violence, attempts to legitimize illegal mining and examples of disrespect for minorities. the brutal murders of dom phillips and bruno pereira cannot go unpunished. but we have to get to the root of the problem. we can't just sit back and watch the executioners get sentenced. these crimes are also one of the effects of president bolsonaro's aggressive and intimidating rhetoric and policies, which have ruined the indigenous peoples' defenses and opened up the amazon to the most savage economic exploitation. something that will only get worse with the infamous law of devastation. there is a real ecocide and ethnocide going on in the amazon. we can't just sit here and be quiet. we have to stop him. we cannot also silence the constant threats to brazilian democracy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in recent years, the condition of the indigenous population in brazil has worsened dramatically. we have seen serious violations of fundamental rights and all this in a climate of total impunity, in fact. we can clearly recognize, ready to make a comparison in any place, that the political choices adopted by the bolsonaro government have favored the emergence of this climate of violence and have aggravated the conditions of exploitation of the amazon forest. human rights and environmental protection are here interwoven in an indissoluble duo, whose defence takes on the dimension of a universal, global, world interest. and this interest requires us to take a clear stand, not the next election campaign. it is first and foremost to shed light, full light on the murder and killing of an intelligent and curious journalist like dom phillips and the indigenous expert bruno pereira. we also call on the commission and the council to take all the necessary steps to ensure that the rights of the indigenous peoples of the amazon and of environmentalists are respected, and to ensure the protection of a common good fundamental to the whole of humanity, the amazon rainforest.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are still dealing with deaths in brazil. bruno pereira and dom phillips are the latest casualties of this war waged by bolsonaro and his agribusiness allies, but there is a cause, above all, our demand for brazilian goods. that's why the amazon is burning, let's be clear. bruno had received death threats because of his work with indigenous peoples and their organization univaja, precisely to rid their forests of illegal loggers, miners, poachers and drug traffickers. that is why we need strong european rules to stop the import of products which cause deforestation and violate human rights. and so it is scandalous that the council has agreed to this to ensure loopholes and limit traceability requirements. in addition, indigenous peoples are the best guardians of the forest, so it is necessary to defend them by monitoring the renewal of land protection ordinances. finally, i believe that all member states should ratify the 1989 convention on indigenous and tribal peoples, the only international convention on the rights of indigenous peoples.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, in brazil, the reality is cold. every year, 13,000 square kilometers of forest are burned. that's 120 times the city of paris. yet it is the defenders of indigenous peoples and the forest who are being hunted by a criminal government that has only one policy: to sack, plunder and destroy a 55 million year old biological heritage, the common good of humanity. i say it: the racist, xenophobic and neo-fascist government of bolsonaro is not only guilty of crimes against biodiversity. it is complicit in the real persecution of indigenous peoples, working to give free rein to multinational corporations that do not mind the taste of blood and the smell of burning trees. europe would benefit from taking action to safeguard indigenous peoples and the forest. it's a matter of civilization.
madam president, the tragic deaths of dom phillips and bruno pereira are not an isolated and casual episode. they are part of a culture of violence against indigenous peoples, human rights activists, environmentalists, journalists, various minorities, which has grown exponentially under the current brazilian government. contributing to this has been the current president's confrontational and even offensive language, antagonizing these people and these communities and generating a climate of impunity that fosters violence. instead of promoting the protection of the amazon and indigenous communities, as is his obligation as president, bolsonaro is condoning uncontrolled deforestation and is fulfilling his campaign promise to destroy the public entity for the protection of indigenous peoples. if the criminal responsibility for this murder has to be attributed to its perpetrators, the political and moral responsibility rests on the repeated actions of bolsonaro and his government.
madam president, today in this parliament we solemnly condemn the murders of dom phillips and bruno pereira in the amazon with all our force and strength. but we also want to do this alongside the analysis of what is happening in brazil and the rhetoric of the current president bolsonaro. his aggressive and intimidating rhetoric towards people of color, environmentalists, human rights defenders, women and the lgbtq community is a major contributor to the harassment and attacks in the country. and all of this is happening after a very poor management of the pandemic, it's happening after a disastrous environmental policy in the amazon and it's happening after constant attacks on brazil's electoral system. that's why it's so important that we say loud and clear today that you have to stop your hate speech, your attacks on democracy and your attacks on the planet. we are convinced that brazil and the entire planet deserve better.
madam president, it has been a month since the british journalist dom phillips and the brazilian indigenist bruno pereira were brutally murdered in the amazon they were trying to protect. two lives that join hundreds of others that in recent years have been cut down for opposing the predation of the forest and its natural resources. the devastation of brazil's natural biomes by fire, pollution and machinery, the attack on indigenous reserves and the illegal appropriation of land are mechanisms used by those who make intensive agricultural production, the capture of protected species or mining their way to accumulate wealth. it is their interests that the european union, beyond hypocritical proclamations, supports when it insists on trade liberalization or complicity in destabilizing coup forces in brazil and the region. it will be the brazilian people who will change the circumstances that will allow the preservation of natural ecosystems and defend the populations that depend on them. we hereby express our solidarity with the democratic and progressive forces in brazil who are struggling to return to the path of social progress, the sovereign development of cooperation and peace.
mr president, commissioner, the drought in the european union affects more than a third of the continent and today the picture is dramatic. for example, in portugal, according to the portuguese institute of the sea and the atmosphere, 66% of the territory is in extreme drought and 33% in severe drought. so more must be done. monitoring and prevention strategies, supported by bodies such as the european drought observatory; land assessment plans, which should identify the groups most vulnerable to these extreme weather events and include appropriate adaptation measures; and also measures to mitigate the risk of drought and heat waves. unfortunately, it is no longer enough to try to reverse the impact of climate change. we will have to learn to live with them, but continue to work to mitigate them and thus ensure the health of our planet and those who live on it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, we are in fact experiencing the worst drought since records began in some parts of europe, particularly in southern europe. a recently published study points to a frequency of dry winters in the iberian peninsula of 1 every 4 years. in portugal, the effects of climate change are clear. the average annual rainfall has decreased by 20 millimeters per decade and there has been an increase in the frequency of heat waves, which are the ones that fuel large fires. today, in my country, 96.3% of the territory is extremely and severely dry. in view of this situation, mr commissioner, it is imperative to think of structural solutions. i would therefore like the european commission to look to the future and define a european strategy for increasing surface water storage capacity. a strategy that allows member states to finance outside the common agricultural policy to complete and modernise existing irrigation systems and promote infrastructure such as dams, it has to be said, and connections between reservoirs that can increase the resilience of the system. nature and the climate, but also agriculture and animal production, are obliging us to do this.
mr. chairman, please! as we can see, heat waves are frequent, droughts are increasing, especially in the southern part of europe, which includes my country, slovenia, in the south-east, and agriculture and forestry are certainly the biggest victims of this phenomenon. i therefore agree with my colleagues who stress the importance of strengthening civil protection systems, of being prepared for forest fires and of reducing them as soon as possible, and of ensuring that water is properly managed in agriculture. i come from an area where we have combined on the one hand the construction of a hydroelectric power station and irrigation, which takes precedence over energy consumption, and in this way we are trying to solve problems. modern, low-water irrigation technology is certainly needed, as are suitable rotary kilns and genetic techniques to produce plants that are more resistant to drought.
mr president, commissioner, we are actually discussing a subject which affects people's lives: heat, drought, fires. in my country, in my county, they burned the wheat fields, they didn't just burn the forests, they burned the grain. what are those farmers doing? they have loans in the bank. the cost of bank loans has gone up, at least in my country. i'm left with nothing. we have a surveillance system, a civil protection mechanism, we also have a solidarity fund. the question is how do we get this money to the people affected as quickly as possible? and yes, now we're dealing with the effects. we have to go to the causes at the same time. but it's burning now and we have to put it out, commissioner. so i ask you on behalf of the farmers in romania, on behalf of the citizens of romania who have been without water for months. in whole areas it hasn't rained and the ground is just cracked and people are drinking water by the portion. so we need to act urgently, of course, in cooperation with the governments of the member states, but we need to act urgently now.
mr president, there is a recurring debate on drought, extreme weather events and their impact on various vital sectors, such as agriculture, livestock and other productive and economic activities. in my country, portugal, the extreme and severe drought situation may also have an impact on firefighting. but it seems that we are always chasing after the damage and mitigation measures, obviously, are not enough. preventive measures are needed, including means to enhance water storage capacity, adaptation in productive activities, associated with the definition of water use criteria that ensure public supply for human consumption, public health, the preservation of income, the safeguarding of means of production and the safety and maintenance of water reserves. concrete measures to increase water use and storage are therefore essential, and it is therefore urgent to strengthen and mobilise financial resources for the construction or reconstruction of reservoirs, in particular irrigation, which are essential for small and medium-sized farms and family farms and for the preservation of the countryside.
mr president, thank you very much to the rapporteur. when we adopt a regulation or a directive here, our mission is not fulfilled until much later, when an ex post impact assessment proves to us that our objectives have been achieved. unfortunately, we all know that this is not always the case and that sometimes the problem is with the original text, or because it is written in an unclear and complex way, or because it is just one piece of a puzzle that is difficult to put together, or because its fulfillment depends on too many administrative obligations. to prevent this from happening, as this report shows, the drafting of the law must be more involved by the citizens. tested ideas and proof-of-concepts pilots, the simplest language and technology should be used to facilitate law enforcement. better legislation is essentially about making sure that european legislation is effective, and that we are satisfied with the result of our work, our work here in parliament, the commission and the council.
mr president, sustainable forest management must take account of aspects such as economic viability, the promotion of the multifunctionality of forests and the sustainability of forest ecosystems. it should encourage forestry and prevent rural neglect, which leaves large areas of land to be abandoned and encourages the proliferation of forest monocultures in the service of the paper industry. the european union's policies and guidelines bear responsibility for the current state of our forests. underfunding, privatisation and the dismantling of public services and the dominance of timber monopolies have suffocated thousands of small-scale forest producers. the protection of forests requires other policies (agriculture, rural development and trade) in addition to the removal of constraints on public investment by states. timber production prices are a crucial issue in ensuring the interest and commitment of small and medium-sized owners in active forest management that defends the forest, promotes its multifunctionality, ensures the sustainability of forest ecosystems and fosters native species.
mr president, mr commissioner, let’s say you are taking as your personal responsibility the secret services of the commission. and you say, ‘no, no, no, it does not belong to the commission, it belongs to myself’. that happened with mr mitsotakis. and then it appears that the secret services of the commission are tapping mr androulakis. it also appears that the results of the predator system that is shared, at the same time, it follows mr androulakis. and then you say, ‘no, no, no, i didn’t know anything, i have no personal responsibility and predator, what is that all about?’ you think if you would say that, we would believe you? that is my question.
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for this debate. but let me first of all say, once again, that any attempt to gain illegal access to private data is unacceptable, including when it is made by public authorities, including intelligence services. the union already has a strong legal acquis to protect privacy, we need to ensure that this acquis is implemented and applied in all member states. there is a national security exception in european law which allows for derogations from the application of european rules where appropriate. however, the use of this exception must be justified in each specific case, in particular in the light of the principle of necessity and proportionality. this should be subject to scrutiny by national parliaments, but also by independent data protection authorities and national judicial authorities. we condemn the illegal use of spyware, but the facts must first be established and qualified by the judiciary. the commission does not have access to individual files. the defence of the rule of law requires above all an independent, qualified and efficient judiciary, and we rely on national authorities to investigate the cases that have been revealed and the allegations that have been made and to restore the confidence of citizens. we expect the national authorities, and this is the case in greece, to provide us with full information on the investigations undertaken and the follow-up given, including by the judicial authorities. and i would like to remind you that at european level, we must continue to strengthen our privacy protection tools, such as the eprivacy directive. i hope that the trilogues can make progress on this point.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the promotion and protection of eu fundamental values is a major concern for the council, and we will continue to pay close attention to any concrete situations where those values may be at risk. judging from today’s discussion, there is no doubt that parliament is equally committed to ensuring the protection of the rule of law and the privacy of our citizens. concerning the pegasus scandal and the questions that were sent by the pega committee of inquiry, as raised by mr lenaers, we welcome the activities of the committee of inquiry concerning this important issue. the member states received a questionnaire from the european parliament that touches the heart of national competencies and their domestic situation. just to be precise, these questions were addressed to individual member states. that being said, there is indeed a discussion underway in the council at a technical level regarding the possibility of a common reaction to the pega questionnaire. in addition, of course, member states can continue sending the pega committee their individual replies. the european parliament will be informed as soon as possible in the coming weeks. the czech presidency will, for its part, continue its efforts to bolster our capacity to protect our citizens better from any attacks on their fundamental rights. as i mentioned before, our agreement on the nis2 directive is a concrete example of what we can do together to achieve a higher level of cybersecurity in the eu. we also look forward to important proposals that the european commission is going to present this week: the european cyber resilience act and the media freedom act, as commissioner reynders mentioned. we stand ready to continue this cooperation to discuss and advance on other proposals to further protect the fundamental rights of our citizens and the resilience of our democracies.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report (a9-0221/2022) by mr niels fuglsang, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on energy efficiency (recast) (com (2021) 0558 c9-0330/2021 2021/0203 (cod)).
member of the commission. – mr president, the proposal for the recast of the energy efficiency directive is of the utmost importance to our energy system for sustainability, affordability and energy security. we are just over 200 days since russia’s invasion of ukraine. apart from the human tragedy that putin has caused, the war has triggered volatility, and uncertainty on our energy markets and the threat of gas disruption this winter is a scenario to be ready for. at the same time, we have seen images of extreme weather affecting our lives and stressing our energy system, and this keeps repeating over and over again. both of these developments need a response and action that is even more robust than before. energy savings are the quickest and cheapest way to address the current energy crisis. this is key, as high energy costs are hitting our vulnerable consumers and businesses most. saving energy directly reduces our energy bills and makes our economy more resilient. energy efficiency means saving on energy prices, investment costs and system costs. but it needs to be done right – e.g. will complement the urgent action we are taking to reduce gas consumption in view of our repowereu goals, just like we already see with our ‘save gas for a safe winter’ plan. as you know, electricity demand reduction will be the starting point of the emergency intervention that we are currently finalising. beyond this winter, structural change at the very foundation of how we use energy every day will help end our dependence on russian fossil fuels faster and protect our economy. in this way, energy efficiency is a strategic tool to strengthen and safeguard our energy system. given its importance, i want to thank the rapporteur, nils fuglsang, and his colleagues from the itre committee for the important progress made on the proposal. you have shown a true commitment to pushing for the highest ambition in many of the provisions to effectively alleviate energy poverty. on the way forward, i would stress the importance of a robust and effective eeg, otherwise we risk undermining its impact, in particular when it comes to the provisions on public buildings and innovation and stopping support to fossil fuel technologies. i hope that we can stick to the spirit of the proposal. the current crisis and the challenging winter ahead will remain a constant reminder of the importance of our joint effort on this proposal, with a collective, constructive mind—set.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to sum up in a minute the result of months and months of work. the text we are going to adopt in the next few days is ambitious and concrete, without any compromise with ideology or political manifestos. managing the transition means choosing achievable goals. we then decided to increase our target of reducing our energy consumption to 40% by 2030 compared to 2007; pushed for binding national contributions, while leaving flexibility to member states for increased electrification and hydrogen production; ensuring that the public sector effectively plays an exemplary role in the efficiency of its real estate portfolio, while safeguarding the cultural heritage of cities; the commission also called on energy-intensive companies to invest in improving production processes through appropriate accompanying measures. the present situation requires us to make the time limit short, knowing that the cheapest energy that protects the environment and makes us less dependent on third parties is the energy we do not consume.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, we have no doubt about the potential for renewal and innovation in energy networks, buildings, transport and other public utilities, with a view to greater energy efficiency. however, by setting binding targets that require more effort from some states than others, the european union is shifting the responsibility and the financial effort required to achieve them onto the member states, which is neither fair nor feasible. we advocated that the funds mobilised to promote energy efficiency should be excluded from the calculation of the public debt and budget deficits of the member states, so that the necessary investments could be made, but our proposal was not accepted. we also believe that energy efficiency policies should not contribute to greater social exclusion and worsening of citizens' living conditions through higher housing costs, mobility or energy prices. we believe that public control of the energy sector is crucial to increasing energy efficiency and to guaranteeing the economic, social and environmental rights of the people.
the european parliament will vote tomorrow on the report on the european commission's proposal to revise the multiannual financial framework (mff 2021-2027). the commission has proposed, and rightly so, the creation of the social fund for climate action. this revision of the mff is now objectively necessary and urgent, but as we have already seen, in the new political and economic context - the war against ukraine and the social and economic consequences of the war on the european union and on the lives of citizens and businesses - we will have to go further in the near future, already next year. the budget of the european union is the most powerful instrument for meeting the political ambitions of the european union. and we already see that you have to have a permanent instrument that can be activated in times of crisis. we must use the lessons we have learned in recent times to make the budget of the european union more flexible and more compatible with regular times, but also with times of turbulence and uncertainty, always on the basis of solidarity and trust between institutions and member states and protecting citizens. this fund is intended to support the most vulnerable in the transition to climate neutrality. a fund that aims to absorb the disproportionate social impact that climate change will bring, by supporting households, micro-enterprises and tackling mobility poverty. this fund is even more vital today than when it was proposed by the commission. it can become a decisive instrument in combating inequalities in the process of building the energy autonomy of the european union. commissioner, parliament has started from the commission's proposal. but he did more! it has created an automatic mechanism to adjust for fluctuating carbon prices. this means that in the event of an increase in the carbon price, additional appropriations will be made available to the fund, ensuring that the appropriations available in the union budget increase in line with the carbon price. member states may programme this additional funding in priorities or measures they have already identified or in new priorities. in summary, the proposal for the revision of the mff, which will be voted on tomorrow, preserves the principle of the unity of the union budget; upholds the treaties, providing that new programmes must be fully integrated into the union budget, respecting the community method; respects parliamentary democratic control; ensures the predictability of financing and multiannual programming and safeguards the transparency of budgetary decisions in the union; consolidates the principle that new initiatives require new resources; and provides that annual reinforcements are integrated into the mff through an adjustment to the fluctuation of the carbon price. one thing is clear, commissioner: we will not accept new programmes on an intergovernmental basis to the detriment of the community method. we will not accept funding for them from outside sources of funding. we will not accept the creation of new programmes at the expense of cuts in other key union programmes or policies, or in the financial envelopes of the member states. the citizens of the union must now, more than ever, be assured that the european union protects them and that the european parliament defends them, demanding greater transparency, more democracy. the european parliament will not allow its powers as budgetary authority to be weakened under any circumstances.
mr president, in june the second united nations conference on the oceans was held in lisbon. the international community has recognized the need for us to do more, to do better, to protect our oceans and our biodiversity. it is therefore disappointing that negotiations on the protection of biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction areas, which were aiming for an agreement this summer, have been inconclusive. the longer we delay in putting global measures into practice, the more we harm the most vulnerable, the most marginalised. leaders around the world, keep your eyes on the science and the appeals of young people at the high-level negotiations we'll be holding later this year. a coordinated response is imperative that recognizes the need to respect the limits of our planet earth. today, the crisis is not just one, it's a climate crisis, it's an environmental crisis, it's an ocean and biodiversity crisis.
mr president, colleagues, nine months ago in december 2021, alexei navalny’s daughter, daria navalny, received the european parliament’s sakharov prize on behalf of her imprisoned father. since then, we in this house expressed many times our solidarity with tens of thousands of his supporters. we questioned the fairness of russian elections. we expressed our support to the peaceful anti-war protesters across the country who were detained by russian authorities. but now we turn a blind eye towards the unprecedented initiative of three baltic states and poland, who are blaming for putin’s regime all the russian people, including those who we believe are victims of propaganda, false elections and police violence. as of 19 september, estonia, latvia, lithuania and poland agreed not to let through their borders any russian citizens holding tourist visas issued by any member state. this decision does not only erase all efforts made by russian opposition, but also clearly violates european law, particularly the schengen borders code. i urge the commission to have a close look at this strange decision.
mr president, brazil is a fundamental and important partner of the european union. however, brazil and its citizens are currently experiencing a dangerous and structuring economic, environmental and social crisis. and the first round of elections will take place on october 2nd, and i don't believe that it will be the populists, both left and right - and i'm talking about lula da silva and bolsonaro - who will be able to restructure that country and turn it into the nation it should be. and so we need to implement, i believe brazilians need to implement, a national development plan that has as its pillar education, the ecologically sustainable reindustrialization of their industry, that they can distribute wealth better, fight violence, fight climate crimes and ensure the projection of this country to the nation that it should be. i hope then that the next president of the federative republic of brazil who will speak to this house will be ciro gomes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about droughts and fires, we also talk about the growing impact of climate change on our lives, which is manifested in the increase in global temperatures, in the heat waves that repeatedly strike europe, or even in storms and floods, so often out of season. but let's not kid ourselves. climate change and its consequences are also largely responsible for the rise in food prices for europeans. and so, looking for solutions for agriculture that do not involve coordinated action to combat climate change and a more sustainable way of life will always be doomed to failure, failure that has also been the expression that applies to the action of many national governments, such as that of portugal, governments that for many years had the conditions and the money necessary to develop better solutions for forest fire prevention, monitoring and combat, but also water management and saving systems, and very little or nothing has been done. it's just that drought and firefighting have not been a priority for the various governments, specifically in portugal, and this summer is once again the result of that. the government has been negligent, i would even say incompetent, in keeping the forest and the people safe. i would like to thank the firefighters who often sacrifice their lives to compensate for the inaction of the authorities.
mr president, once again we are talking about drought and its serious impacts on society and ecosystems. and once again it seems to me that nothing structural will be done, because the majority of members, governments and european institutions continue to look the other way. to ensure the survival of humanity we must face reality. we need to be radical, that is, to get to the root of the problem. we need to preserve and regenerate our native forests, because without them there is no water intake. we need to change our model of food production and reduce our food's water footprint, because without that, we'll continue to waste water. and finally, we urgently need to change our eating habits, reducing and drastically cutting down on animal protein consumption, as this is one of the most inefficient ways of food production and has a huge water footprint.
mr president, commissioner, this debate here in the european parliament today is a tribute to all the firefighters and all the mayors who have fought and fought in adverse conditions. but it is also to say that if natural disasters increase in intensity and severity, europe and many of the member states must act more and more effectively. the commissioner says that it is important to have this consultation and i would also like to encourage him to do so. three very important notes: first, a strategy for integrated water management with appropriate instruments. we have to take advantage of the water that flows, much of which is wasted. second, a strategy for forest fires, but fundamentally prevention, prevention, prevention, prevention. this is the first step. many member states, and i am talking about my own country, do not use this very important mechanism, but then also, of course, concerted action. the third is solidarity. this is the time for europe to show its solidarity too, so that we cannot stand by idly when, for example, and i give the example of my own country, a natural park is burning, a large part of a natural park which is a unesco world heritage site, as happened in serra da estrela in portugal.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the adoption of the minimum wage directive at european level is a major step in the right direction. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs of the european parliament, in particular my colleague agnes jongerius, and the other colleagues who have worked and coordinated this matter, so that we have reached a point of no return, and indeed an acceleration. it is true that in many european countries we already have adequate minimum wages, but it is also true that steps are being taken in other countries to ensure a decent life for all workers. no one should live in poverty while working. you should have a life of dignity, and that is particularly more important at the present time. this is the time to speed up the implementation of this directive, not to wait for the transposition deadline. the member states must now act now, at a time when workers are suffering from the current energy price crisis. the workers who are paid the minimum wage must now also benefit from the great work done in the adoption of this directive.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, commissioner, colleagues, in particular for the political will to agree on a minimum wage directive, especially at this difficult time. it is not normal, we agree, that people on minimum wages in europe are not living on it, cannot meet their basic needs and end up in poverty. the current inflation, energy, food prices will further impoverish people on the minimum wage. the urgent implementation of this directive, involving the social partners, must therefore be a priority for the member states and we would ask the commission to monitor this process closely. this directive will ensure that the minimum income level corresponds to purchasing power, real subsistence levels, so that it is reviewed in a timely and regular manner. the minimum wage must ensure that people who receive it can live, support their families. only then will europe be socially strong, sustainable and resilient, especially in times of crisis.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. when we started working on the directive on adequate minimum wages in the european union, we were in a different reality. and although we saw at that time that the union was particularly vulnerable to poverty and that there was a phenomenon of working poverty, we have never been more convinced than we are today of the need to act in the face of soaring prices and the energy crisis. from the outset, the aim of the directive was not to harmonise the minimum wage mechanism in the european union, but rather to set minimum requirements and promote collective agreements in order to strengthen and protect the minimum wage in the member states, to guarantee fair and adequate remuneration, and to contribute to poverty reduction. we all understand and respect the different traditions in the various member states. the agreement that is on the table today is a good and balanced proposal. i am glad that the text includes provisions to prevent excessive administrative burdens on businesses. i am convinced that the adoption of the directive will contribute to better protecting workers' rights and to increasing the adequacy of wages in the union.
mr president, dear all, this historic directive introducing an adequate minimum wage and strengthening collective bargaining in europe is a very important step towards a more social europe. and my political family, the socialists and democrats, we do not stand alone in this fight. we have the trade unions on our side, but not only them. we have the citizens on our side – in recent eurobarometer polls this is proven. and also the participants in the conference on the future of europe want a stronger social europe. some 24 million citizens will directly profit from this directive. and commissioner, you are right to mention the essential workers, many of them women, because they deserve it. let us not forget that adequate minimum wages, strong collective bargaining and strong trade unions are crucial elements for any recovery strategy. they are tools to fight against social dumping. they are tools to fight against wage dumping. and they are tools to reach upward convergence in europe. and all this is not only good for the people, but it is also good for the economy. now it is important that the member states will swiftly transpose and implement this directive. many thanks to all who participated in this important work.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. those who work must be paid a wage that allows them to live a decent life. that's obvious, but not, unfortunately, as obvious as it seems. the relationship between wages and salaries and the relationship between wages and social transfers is often completely incomprehensible. that is why i support the idea of a minimum wage at european level. however, given the different economic environment and the different development of social dialogue in the member states, it is essential to leave the details, including the setting of the minimum wage, to the member states. we must be aware that the minimum wage is a starting point and affects all other wages as well as other transfers. it is therefore essential to be extremely careful not to put jobs-creating businesses at risk by making wrong decisions. and of course, a sensible government and a sensible social partners will make sure that they find solutions through dialogue that are good for everyone.
mr president, commissioner, i am really glad that we have a debate like this and that we are going to have a vote tomorrow. yes, they got poor, a lot of people got poor. the appropriate wage, obviously we have to see what is appropriate, because if in germany, the hourly wage is 12 euros, in romania it is three. but i must make one thing very clear. if a country opposes the introduction of a minimum wage, it means that it does not respect its workers. and we have a problem here, that we have the mobility of workers, and i want every worker, no matter in which country they work, to benefit from the existence of a collective agreement and the existence of a minimum wage. that is why i think we must vote tomorrow and i very much believe, commissioner, that we must also link this decision with measures to make the economy work, because these increases, which are now also energy, all costs, affect very much especially micro and small and medium-sized enterprises. that's why i think we need to not forget about economic measures, but we need to have this minimum wage and the protection of workers, no matter where they work.
mr president, this directive under discussion today is, in our view, a dangerous instrument for the general stagnation of wages and, consequently, of the national minimum wage. to limit the adequacy of wages to indicators, and to these indicators, means on the one hand to admit and accept that workers earning the minimum wage are condemned to a situation of poverty and, on the other hand, means to condition the future upward trend of the minimum wage to the evolution of the rest of the wage bill. it is true that the directive does not deprive governments of the ability to set the minimum wage they consider fair and adequate for living in dignity. but it is also true that it gives apparently technical reasons for the european commission, employers and their governments to try to prevent fair and dignified minimum wage increases in countries like portugal, where the government and employers' associations have been quick to claim that we have already met these indicators, 60% of the gross median wage and 50% of the gross median wage. but portuguese workers know that the minimum wage is far below the mark and that what is required is a general increase in wages and the national minimum wage.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, mr high representative, mr josep borrell, the recent visit of the president of the united states congress to taiwan has served as a pretext for the people's republic of china to make an unprecedented disproportionate show of force in the taiwan strait, with large-scale military exercises, including the launch of ballistic missiles that flew over taiwan. we have a very clear message from our political family to convey to the chinese authorities, and i think that it will also be very clear in the resolution of this parliament tomorrow: this attempt to intimidate is unacceptable and deserves our strongest condemnation. any unilateral attempt to change the status quo, to undermine stability in the region, would have the most serious consequences. one thing we know: china will play a big role in the world in the coming decades, that's for sure, but what role does china want to play? do you want to be on the side of cooperation, within the framework of international law, or do you want to be on the side of aligning with those who have been deteriorating world peace and order? that's what we're going to see in the next few days.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, well i think that this debate confirms that we remain committed to our one-china policy. that we share the same interests in preserving peace and stability and the status quo in the taiwan strait, as it is indeed for the whole asia pacific region and for us. first message i think is clear. no one should unilaterally change the status quo by force in the taiwan strait. second, our one-china policy does not prevent the european union from intensifying our cooperation with taiwan. and certainly we have a strong engagement with taiwan. we have recently modernised this engagement on the economic side. i explained how important is the chips industry of taiwan for us, how important it is for our supply chains, for our security, our technology and other perspectives with export control and investment screening. so we have to continue engaging with taiwan economically and politically. but, to tell the truth, i’m not planning to go to taiwan and as far as i know, there is no travel foreseen at the highest political level of the european union. which does not mean that there is no relationship. recently, some member of this chamber, as far as i know, visited taiwan. and the fact that we maintain our one-china policy, it does not prevent us from intensifying our cooperation with taiwan. and the last message, i want to insist on that. the tensions in the taiwan strait will not go away. this situation will remain challenging and i am sure we will have another debate about this issue. and we should be ready to play smartly in this situation with the strong conviction of our request for peace and stability, on our will to have good relations with taiwan, making it possible with the one-china policy and the preservation of the status quo. i know that this will not make a happy 100% to all of you. and some of you would like me to say to take a tougher stance. we have to be aware that this is a difficult situation in which we have to keep both things at the same time. this is a balanced position. no changes in the status quo by force, continue intensifying cooperation with taiwan and keeping one-china policy. i’m sure this will provide for further discussions.
six motions for resolutions were tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2022. the president of the commission written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
pelosi's visit to taiwan and the developments that result from it cannot be dissociated from the us strategy of confrontation against the people's republic of china, initiated by the trump administration and maintained in its essential contours and objectives by the biden administration. confrontation strategy that incorporates a permanent provocative action around taiwan of which pelosi's visit is an aggravated example , aiming to turn taiwan into an instrument of the us aggressive strategy, through the instigation of conflict and the increasing militarization of the asia-pacific, threatening peace and security in the region. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of nations, and it is also a political union of nations. the defence of peace and the principles of the un charter and international law requires respect for the principle of 'one china', embodied in the sovereignty of the people's republic of china over its entire territory, including taiwan.
madam president, the so-called energy market is characterized by the subordination of the interests of the people to those of the big transnational energy companies, with dramatic consequences for their living conditions, including the worsening of inflation, leveraged by speculation on energy. regulated tariffs and maximum prices for energy products, electricity and natural gas, reducing vat on electricity and gas and, at the same time, moving towards taxation of excessive or undue profits of all economic groups with energy production or marketing operations, demanding a structural change in the iberian electricity market, putting an end to the marginalist rule in force, since the so-called iberian exception has not changed this anomaly. these are some of the urgent and necessary measures we are advocating so that the energy situation does not worsen in the coming months. in the name of the market and profits, the eu prefers to keep the stick on households and micro, small and mediumsized enterprises. either they get cold and compromise their business or they empty their wallets. this is the european union's response to rising energy prices.
madam president, commissioner, in recent months the european union has been keeping a close eye on ukraine and the economic and social impact of the war. i couldn't be any different, but that can't make me forget other priorities. the mediterranean is a geopolitical imperative, a strategic partner, notably in building the energy autonomy of the european union, and repowereu is there to support new projects within the framework of this partnership. migration and human rights, priorities set in 2021 in strengthening the mediterranean partnership, are key, but new challenges are added, the post-covid economic and social recovery, climate change, digital transition and energy transition. we must tackle all these challenges, strengthen the social dimension, ensure rights and opportunities for women and young people. but will this reinforcement of the partnership be enough? will the announced european funds be enough? we shall only know if the political institutions look at the mediterranean as a real priority.
madam president, dear president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the invasion of ukraine in recent months, our citizens have responded with solidarity. today, with the war increasingly felt in europe, it is our duty to protect europeans from this social tsunami, so that the wave of european solidarity with ukraine does not lose its strength. president von der leyen, the commitment to limit speculative profits for social purposes is a positive one. it's late, but better late than never. some countries have moved faster in this respect, such as portugal and spain, protecting consumers by lowering tariffs. i'm glad you did. but not everyone was as quick. we now expect the commission to show determination and to stop dragging its feet on the council's side in order to reduce the energy bills of households and small businesses. a new sure that comes to stay, to protect us from the effects of unemployment. a future with more equality, without populism and without tyranny. we must act now so that the winter does not freeze the hopes of europeans.
madam president, thank you, madam president von der leyen, for your presentation on the state of the union. in his presentation, he listed a number of new initiatives: a european hydrogen bank, a european sovereignty fund, a new programme for smes, a programme for mental health, new energy initiatives and additional capacity for the civil protection mechanism. my question is whether in the proposal for the revision of the multiannual budget which the commission is preparing it will transpose all these initiatives into the budget. secondly, you have set out a set of principles for the revision of the budgetary rules, principles which are in line with the principles adopted by the european parliament a year ago. my question is: when will the legislative initiatives that actually open the door to the revision of these rules be introduced?
in writing. four years after the report which started the process of applying article 7 of our treaty to hungary, there is no record or news of developments in the democratic parameters in the country. the constitutional system, the independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression and media pluralism have regressed. religious freedom, the rights of minorities, migrants, asylum seekers and refugees are also a growing problem. in the face of this absolutely clear picture, we have to use the instruments at our disposal: not to approve the hungarian recovery and resilience plan, to exclude from funding cohesion programmes that contribute to the misuse of eu funds or to the violation of the rule of law, and to strictly apply the common provisions regulation and the financial regulation.
the commissioner has already said that the situation in nicaragua is not good enough. corruption, promiscuity between the political and judicial powers, arbitrary detention of political opponents, journalists, human rights defenders, persecution and closure of non-governmental organizations and media outlets, as well as attacks on the catholic church, are a portrait of the disturbing state of restriction of fundamental freedoms and the fear in which nicaraguan citizens live submerged. the case of the persecution of bishop rolando álvarez, who ended up under house arrest for disagreeing with government decisions, is another in an ever-growing list of cases. a case that also resulted in the closure of the radio stations that broadcast the words of the bishop and the arrest of some clergymen who accompanied him in his parish. we call for their immediate release without any conditions, because we do not accept any conditions. we call for the release of all these and all political prisoners in nicaragua. there are no good dictatorships and bad dictatorships, they are all simply deplorable, and violations of human rights and the rule of law are all just that and can only be fought vigorously, wherever they are. in the case of nicaragua, there is no deception. the sandinista guerrilla ortega became a grotesque caricature of the dictator somoza, who he helped fight. that's a sad one. the sandinista revolution has failed, and now that we have reached this stage, we can only expand the list of those sanctioned against ortega and all his followers, and strengthen support for civil society within the country and for all those who are forced to flee and seek protection outside nicaragua.
madam president, this resolution against nicaragua, like the one adopted just three months ago, is another exercise in concealing facts to cover up an objective position of support for those who promote destabilization and coup d'état in nicaragua and who do not hesitate to incite violence and hatred in that country. this is an unacceptable position of the european parliament, which is contrary to the principles of the united nations charter and international law and which is in line with the united states of america's strategy of interference and destabilisation against nicaragua and other countries in latin america and the caribbean. those who really care about nicaragua and its people are demanding an end to the coercive and unilateral measures imposed by the united states of america, which are aimed at hindering nicaragua's economic development and affecting the living conditions of the nicaraguan people. those who really care about nicaragua and its people defend the right of the nicaraguan people to decide their own destiny, free from the manoeuvres of interference, destabilization and coups fomented from outside.
in writing. the european commission's 8th cohesion report entitled 'cohesion in europe by 2050', presented on 9 february 2022, months after the adoption of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework, reflects a number of issues in the union's cohesion policy. it offers a positive economic outlook for the regions, addresses the concerns of europeans about quality of life, employment opportunities and solutions for social inclusion, and ensures a fair sharing of the costs and benefits of responding to new challenges. all this can and should reassure the citizens of the union. as for the challenges for the next 30 years, the report predicts that the growth of the european union (eu) will be driven by the green and digital transitions. these transitions will bring new opportunities but will require significant structural changes that could create new regional disparities. to this end, it is envisaged that between 2021 and 2027, the contribution from the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund will be 30% and 37% respectively of the union contribution to the expenditure on climate objectives set in the budget, with the aim of making the eu economy climate neutral by 2050.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the industrial strategy must give priority to the supply of food, medicines and medical supplies. the european industrial strategy must help us to become fully independent of putin's blackmail and attempts, while ensuring the competitiveness of sustainable european industry and businesses. we must end the european union's energy dependence on russia, on fossil fuels, and the union and the member states must therefore increase energy savings and develop energy efficiency measures. finally, we need to ensure the social fairness of industrial restructuring and develop appropriate measures to support regional industrial restructuring through investment projects and industrial restructuring plans in vulnerable regions, especially rural and remote areas.
madam president, in countries like portugal we have for decades been witnessing the destruction of the productive apparatus and the intensification of depopulation and desertification of vast areas of the country, sacrificing the indispensable foundations for a genuine process of economic and social development. the profoundly asymmetrical impact of the european union's common policies on the member states confirms the need to recover national sovereignty in areas such as industry, agriculture, fisheries and trade, but also energy. the updating of the industrial strategy we have discussed today is nothing new. it lacks, of course, an assessment of the processes of deindustrialization, the causes of which are, in certain countries such as portugal, inseparable from these factors. it does not mention the harmful effects of relocating industrial units to third countries, reducing wages or attacking workers' rights. it maintains the logic of competitiveness and the untouchable single market. it continues to advocate that innovation and r & d activities should be at the service of the major economic groups rather than aligned with the development strategy of each country. while cutting funds in cohesion policy, direct and indirect funding for military industry and research is being increased for the european union, affirming its militarist nature, maintaining its project of training the european army, serving the strategy of nato and the united states of america. we are in favour of a strategy which values national production and the exploitation of the country's potential for the creation of jobs with rights and the enhancement of workers' rights, the fight against external dependence and the affirmation of a sovereign path of development.
madam president, the need for reindustrialisation in europe is clear. the pandemic has made this clear, even more so in the context of the war in ukraine. our dependency makes us vulnerable. we need industry to generate prosperity and jobs. but the reality is that in spain - as well as in germany, italy and france - the industrial fabric is disappearing. they are forced to close or go to third countries because here they are drowned out by more and more legislation, such as climate, which leaves them completely out of the game. because, in front of this industrial strategy, so necessary, there are other incompatible ones, such as the green pact, which they continue to give priority to, without mercy, without flexibility. why don't you listen? there are solutions. the plans must be adapted to the situation and the maturity of the technologies. the commitment to pursue environmental objectives shows that the happiness of european people and citizens is not their concern.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this rich discussion that is a demonstration of parliament’s attachment to our industrial base and a recognition of industry’s role in our policy objectives. and i think that the debate also showed that we have to continue the exchange with parliament on how to best support our industry, ensure its competitiveness in a difficult economic and geopolitical context, and foster a partnership with industrial stakeholders in pursuit of our commonly agreed policy objectives. i will be that short because i was criticised for being too long at the beginning, so now i will stop here and just let me shortly greet the representatives of the czech patchwork club, which is part of the textile industry.
that’s very interesting. i want to explain why only one catch-the-eye was awarded. it was because we do not want to encourage the behaviour that those who ask for catch-the-eye do not attend the plenary during the debate, so ms grapini i am sorry but this is my decision.
sorry, i was here at 9.00. i was on the phone but stayed here. i was the first person in parliament.
but did you attend this debate? that is the question. well you can write to the president if you want, but this is my decision.
at this stage i would like to make an announcement: parliament declares, in accordance with its rules of procedure, that as a result of the election of ms guteland as a member of the swedish parliament, her mandate will be vacant as from 26 september 2022.
we now move on to the report by mr tom berendsen (a9-0214/2022).
this conversation is over. the vote will take place today, thursday 15 september 2022.
the next item is the commission statement on the situation of smes in the union (2022/2823 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, this week’s state of the union by president von der leyen took place against the context of the war in ukraine, soaring energy prices, inflation and supply chain bottlenecks. these are prime concerns for our smes and i therefore welcome your initiative to hold a debate on the state of the eu’s smes during the same plenary session. our smes need a lifeline in these unprecedented times. yesterday, president von der leyen announced that the commission will put forward an sme relief package, including a proposal for a single set of tax rules for doing business in europe. we will also combat late payments by revising the late payment directive. let me also say a few words on our ongoing action on three issues that are key for smes: access to finance, regulatory burden and capacity for green and digital transition. given the exceptional challenges, we are ensuring that the funding we will provide can deliver most impact for smes. among such funding, the single market programme will provide eur 1 billion for smes’ support. it pools key activities such as the enterprise europe network, the joint cluster initiative and erasmus for young entrepreneurs. the programme also proved flexible to meet evolving needs, such as the support to ukrainian smes to help them integrate into the single market. we helped, setting up the supply chain resilience platform for companies in the eu or ukraine to retrain, restructure or replace existing supply chains to keep production going, because our single market is a formidable level for expansion and a safety net for eu business, but also for our partners. our flagship investment programme, investeu, will help smes access loans and equity, including tackling solvency risks. investeu will also support smes that are going public or intend to do so. this will attract additional private investments to help smes scale up and grow. now coming to smes business environment. entrepreneurs will tell you and tell us that they need legislation to be clear, easy to implement and avoid disproportionate costs. we have committed ourselves to removing red tape and lowering costs without compromising policy objectives. better regulation remains a key priority for the commission. under the direction of my colleague, vice-president maroš šefčovič, we are assessing impacts on smes and we are reviewing legislation as the fit for future platform and we are filtering initiatives regarding their relevance for smes. and we need your help as the co-legislator to keep burdens as low as possible. finally, the transition to a more sustainable way of doing business, the implementation of the green deal and digitalisation of smes. this requires a joint effort. to advise and support the smes in green transition we introduced the sustainability advisers provided through the new enterprise europe network. the transition pathways we just discussed in the previous debate will for each industrial ecosystem identify specific constraints faced by small businesses via a set of semi-specific questions. on the digital transition, the digital europe programme supports smes with access to technical expertise and testing, including the possibility to ‘test before invest’ via european digital innovation hubs. it also helps smes’ employees to become proficient in areas such as artificial intelligence, cybersecurity or blockchain. together, that is with you and the council, we can make sure that the twin transitions move forward with the minimum burden and costs on smes. it is our collective responsibility. with that, madam president, honourable members, i come to the end of my statement. let us all go back to work for europe’s smes, which diligently deliver so that europe can become more resilient.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy. but right now, their situation is alarming. the fallout from the covid pandemic and the war in ukraine, together with increasing administrative burdens, means that the situation for smes is only getting worse. simply put, our smes are not getting the support they need. this is why we need a dedicated sme envoy in the commission to defend smes and make sure that all new legislation is sme—friendly. we also need to implement the one-in, one-out principle like the commission has promised many times, so that smes are not overburdened by new rules and regulations that would hinder their growth and innovation. it’s regrettable that the commission has dragged its feet for so long in this matter. while i also welcome president von der leyen’s proposed sme relief package, it is simply not enough. it is the time for the commission to bring forward a comprehensive sme package that addresses these issues. strong smes are key for new innovations, economic growth and the green transition in europe. now the commission must get to work and act for our european smes.
i think that in this moment of great economic crisis and also of the production system, we really must put, beyond all the rhetoric, all the phrases we keep repeating, as a priority the help, the support, the attention, the calibration of our choices for smes. the big champions, which we also need in europe, are not enough. it is this widespread framework that we must involve and support and we must do so also with the help of the large companies. the virtuous companies involve all these people in their chain, made up of suppliers, contractors and so on, in their positive processes of innovation, of finding new solutions, in short, of quality, and they manage to drag the whole chain along in this leap in quality that they make. here, let's make this process work. and then for small and mediumsized enterprises we know very well what the priorities are: the president made some remarks yesterday: we must be more timely, more relevant, not just words, but some real concrete action on the subject of energy for small and mediumsized enterprises, the subject of training of staff, the lack of it, the delay in payments. i think that there is something drastic and strong in this too, which helps the member states not to be in default because the member states are in default. the directive has not been implemented, so i think it is really time to be proactive: the commission has already made a number of proposals.
for the renew group. madam president, commissioner, a year has passed and we are meeting here for the second time to take a serious look at the problems of small and mediumsized enterprises. when i spoke at the first sme debate, i wished it to become a tradition. my wish, my dream, that we at renew europe have been persevering in pursuit of, has finally come true. but entrepreneurs are not from the realm of dreams. unfortunately, they live in a harsh reality. the reality is that our economy cannot do without them. they are the foundation, they are the future, they employ millions of people, they create the real value and they still have a lot of untapped potential. they deserve not only our attention but also our care and fair treatment. first, we must always consider their needs. commissioner, it is unacceptable for the commission to come up with proposals where nobody knows what the impact will be on small and mediumsized enterprises. secondly, if the new legislation is to include these companies, please let's make sure they are not cut off from opportunities. let's make sure that the new regulations don't complicate their lives and give them enough time to adjust. third, let's help, let's cheer, let's share examples of good practice. in today's situation, it's even more urgent. the main task now is to help businesses exhausted by covid-19 overcome the energy crisis. just check out the new annual report on european smes, where it's in black and white. even as the economy slowly recovers from the pandemic, more and more companies are closing their operations and laying off workers because of energy prices. if we used to call for smes to have better access to finance, to know their rights and opportunities and to know how to access the support offered, now it is literally a matter of life and death, unfortunately for them. i want to believe that the proposals made by the president of the commission yesterday will help. the commission has finally taken note of the existence of smes and hopes to do more than just talk. when we meet again here in a year, i believe we will be further along. the tradition of the debate on smes will not be empty and we will no longer have to explain why it is crucial, because it is about all of us and our future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, madam commissioner, yesterday’s announcement by president von der leyen on the establishment of an sme relief package is very welcome. smes are suffering the consequences of the war in ukraine with difficulties in access to raw materials, to certain agricultural products and with the increase in energy prices. all this happens after the huge impact of the pandemic, from which many smes were only starting to recover. the measures under the upcoming package should be defined together with the representatives of smes and should deliver as soon as possible: there is no time to waste. and another great difficulty that smes are facing is, as has been mentioned, late payments. and this is not a consequence of the war, but a systemic problem that has only been worsened by the current situation. for this reason, i very much encourage the commission to come up with an ambitious revision of the late payment directive that strengthens the compliance mechanism and introduces an effective system of sanctions.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, madam commissioner, i am very pleased to hear you finally address the subject of our smes. more than 60% of them had already reported difficulties as a result of the health crisis. and as they try to climb the ladder, they are faced with the crisis caused by the rising cost of living. it is more than urgent to take an interest in their fate. in her speech on the union yesterday, ursula von der leyen presented her ideas, which you have taken up today. of course, we can only agree with you on this point. our smes deserve a favourable environment for their development, a skilled workforce and reliable sources of raw materials. yet your response to these concerns is sadly pavlovian. to create new funds paid directly or indirectly by the member states and to draw up free trade agreements when we are in a weak position to negotiate. at the same time, why change a losing team? to this you add the usual goals of sustainability and transition that are supposed to solve everything. that, too, is becoming sadly routine. yet when the eu discusses the establishment of a social climate fund, which is supposed to help reduce the negative effects of this forced ecological transition, it excludes smes. apparently, it's better to support the unemployed than employers. what i finally notice is that there is not much in your speech about short-term solutions. at the moment, our smes are concerned about whether it is better to reduce the order book, switch to technical unemployment or simply close down. what we would like to know, madam commissioner, is what will be proposed to the member states to help them support their smes. i find you a little quiet about that. it is high time that our politicians took responsibility and made the right decisions. the cap on gas prices is a good thing, but it is not enough. we need to do more to support these companies that are the backbone of our economy. we are therefore waiting to see your actions, commissioner, behind your fine words today, and we hope that they will be more successful than your recent decisions. the survival of our economy depends on it.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we all agree that smes are the backbone of the european economy in almost all sectors, including in the area of digitalisation, which is often forgotten when we think of these large companies. it is also a huge number of family businesses that deserve our special attention. unfortunately, despite the declarations that we often hear in this room, the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises after the pandemic and in the face of rising energy prices continues to deteriorate. in addition, their activity in the single market is limited by unnecessary non-tariff barriers and protectionism, especially as regards transport companies and small service enterprises. many entrepreneurs are struggling with the increasing bureaucracy and the overly complex mechanism of raising european funds, which prevents them from adapting quickly to the requirements of the digital economy. when designing new legislation, we need to pay more attention to these issues. small and medium-sized enterprises will create innovative products and services if we create the right conditions for them. when we work on the ai act or the data act, we should keep this in mind and keep the administrative requirements for small and medium-sized businesses and the costs associated with them to a minimum.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in portugal is characterised by a great deal of instability and fragility, with forced closures and reductions in activity without the proper support following the impacts of the pandemic. many had not yet fully recovered from economic activity and were experiencing new difficulties due to rising production costs, the impact of the international situation and the spiral of inflation, particularly in energy and fuels. the cost of energy in certain sectors is the biggest cost driver for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and the increase in speculative fuel prices for gas and electricity could put the continuation of the activity of some of these enterprises in question. while the speculative profits of the energy transnational corporations remain untouchable, solutions for micro, small and medium enterprises are empty. we support the regulation of energy tariffs, together with a fund for the support of the treasury, as urgent measures. we reaffirm that wage increases, which were not mentioned yesterday or today, are crucial for boosting economic activity, with a positive impact on micro, small and mediumsized enterprises.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we are following the situation in burkina faso with great concern. it is the second time in a few months that we have a coup d’état that seizes power in burkina faso, a country that is already in a very dire situation. so we consider that yes, there should be a debate within this plenary in october i, but it is our understanding that the situation on the ground is changing on a daily basis. the instability will not stop in the next few days, so we do not see it as a priority to have a resolution on this matter either now or in october ii. what we want is a clear debate here and a statement by the high representative this week so that we send a message to the ground, so that we send a message to burkina faso. the high representative already urged the authorities to stabilise the situation and go back to the negotiations from a few months ago. let us have the possibility to have this kind of clear statement also by the parliament in this plenary.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, just over two and a half years ago, the european union was struck by the greatest pandemic in a hundred years, which affected everyone in the world, without exception. the eu responded with the tools of the day, but we soon realised the need to build a true european health union. this regulation is thus the culmination of several months of intense negotiations, with the principles of 'one health' and 'health in all policies' at its core, recognising that health is an integral part of any prosperous society. this regulation provides for: the creation of prevention, preparedness and response plans at national and european level; the recognition of public health emergencies; greater coordination and coordination with international bodies such as the world health organisation, as crises know no borders; stress testing and training at various levels for health professionals; more transparency; reference laboratories and reduction of the administrative burden for those managing the crisis; multi-sectoral collaborations and a clear focus on health literacy and the fight against disinformation. this is a historic moment. we have a more robust mandate, because in a crisis, we are only as strong as our weakest link. a final word of thanks to those who made all this possible: to the commission, to the two presidencies who worked with us and, in particular, to you, veronique, and to the whole team of shadow rapporteurs, for having been able to rise to the challenge. for a european health union that leaves no one behind.
madam president, when we discuss ocean governance it is essential that we mention the outermost regions. these are the factors which allow the european union as a whole to have the largest maritime area in the world. therefore, their enormous potential is and should be fully exploited, whether in terms of producing renewable energy, harnessing the potential of biodiversity in these regions or implementing innovative and sustainable pilot projects that change the way society deals with the environment. it is not just a question of asking for exceptions to take account of their specificities, but also of empowering and providing the necessary regulatory and financial basis for the outermost regions to take the lead in the climate transition within the european union itself.
the rapporteur. - madam president, the european economy is changing. if it is true that the difficulties are more present, it is no less true that opportunities are also arising. europeans, especially young people, are now looking for alternatives to saving and investing. with the emergence of new technologies, financial markets have also found new solutions, solutions that are becoming more and more decentralized, more accessible and more present in our lives. policy-makers are not just asked to respond to immediate crises. in the complex, volatile and fast-paced environment in which we live, there is a greater need than ever for smart policymaking and forward-looking solutions. we have a duty to make european law more innovation-friendly so that national law is also a dynamo of progress. this conviction is particularly important when it comes to taxation. taxation is a key instrument for a policy to promote innovation, competitiveness and growth. unfortunately, they are often an obstacle to the efforts to fill the coffers of the state at the expense of the sacrifices made by families and businesses. as a portuguese woman, i am well aware of this phenomenon, the stifling tax burden that is tearing apart our financial freedom and hijacking our future. a pro-innovation, competitive and future-oriented tax policy cannot ignore the emergence of new technologies such as blockchain or the multiplication of crypto-assets. to enhance europe's opportunities in this area, we have put forward these proposals on the impact of new technologies on taxation. what are these proposals? firstly, the clear statement that tax policy is the responsibility of the member states and that we should not tax assets at any cost to fatten national budgets. it is up to each of the 27 states to decide on the taxes they collect. but in an internal market with fair and healthy competition, there must be a minimum of cooperation. when it is decided to tax an asset, the tax must be fair, clear, transparent, predictable and proportionate. secondly, national tax authorities also have to adapt to the challenges of digitalisation. we want a clear increase in human and material resources, a programme of training for staff at european level and the creation of a platform for the sharing of good practice between countries. thirdly, we call for coherence between european law and national law and, for the time being, between national laws. the definitions of 'crypto-asset', for example, or 'taxable event' or 'permanent establishment', must be common, otherwise we will treat similar situations differently. fourth, we want blockchain technology to be harnessed to the full extent of the opportunities it represents. the characteristics of this technology allow us to combat tax fraud and evasion more quickly and effectively and can also make procedures more efficient, reducing red tape for citizens and the costs of context for businesses. finally, we want the union to lead the dialogue towards an international instrument on the taxation of crypto-assets. it is pointless to legislate from one country to another, a reality which knows no borders. if competition is healthy, it must also be fair and just. the change we are experiencing in the economy and in the financial markets cannot be stopped. we will face complex challenges, but we will also meet challenging opportunities. it is up to us to live up to the time when we are called upon to decide, and we will do so with our eyes on the future.
the rapporteur. - madam president, the political debate is a field of disagreement. but it is important to stress that when we talk about new technologies and taxation, there is a broad consensus with clear statements, as we can hear in the speeches throughout the debate. the first consensus is that taxation has to be smart, has to be innovation-friendly and future-oriented. the second consensus is that new forms of investment and saving are extraordinary opportunities for everyone, but they should not be windows of opportunity for tax fraud and evasion. the third consensus is that our fiscal policies and our tax authorities need to adapt quickly to the challenges of the digitisation of the economy and the decentralisation of financial markets. finally, there is a consensus that taxes are national, that european cooperation is essential and that an international agreement is essential. the times we live in, as i also had the opportunity to say earlier, are difficult and are complex. we're all seeing our bills go up. families see their mortgage payments rise month after month, and businesses are naturally insecure with rising interest rates and the breakdown of supply chains. so now is the time to use tax policy to help families and businesses overcome the crisis we are already facing and to anticipate the challenges of a future in which new technologies will be a daily reality. we must therefore be up to date with our times, but above all with the future we want and which europe must lead.
in writing. the report aims to allow greater flexibility to deal with the consequences of military aggression by the russian federation (flexible assistance to territories) fast-care. this proposal was announced at the july plenary session and was referred to the committee on regional development by commissioner elisa ferreira. the proposal considers the impact of russian military aggression and provides responses through a series of flexibilities, which concern several key aspects that also affect the outermost regions, such as madeira and the azores, such as the cohesion policy programmes for 2021-2027 that should strengthen the competitiveness of local economies through the development of tourism and agricultural production or responses to the basic needs of citizens through financing, housing, water supply, waste management, renewable energy and health infrastructure, as well as training and education. the whole process was a simplified procedure, from the presentation of the commission proposal to the vote on the european parliament's plenary session, which lasted about three months. the rapporteur stressed the urgency of the entry into force of this regulation and recommended that parliament should approve it without amendments.
madam president, for more than ten years we have heard arguments about the dangers that a common charger would pose to innovation. this is a common prejudice, but rarely more than that. the innovation we are interested in is one that improves the quality of life of people and respects the limits of our planet. different chargers just brought us tons of e-waste, preventing us from using our old chargers or borrowing from a friend and filling our drawers with useless cables, as alex showed us here today. it has been more than demonstrated that industry would never create a common charger on its own and that innovation must be guided, as we have done here today, in the direction that benefits people and the environment. from 2024, we'll have the innovation we need, upgrading the charger whenever there are faster or more energy-efficient solutions. parliament can now be proud that we have got rid of the jungle of cables in which we used to live.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the variety of living beings on earth is one of its greatest treasures, and biodiversity is a fundamental asset that we all have a duty to preserve. the question for governments and the commission is whether we are doing all that is necessary to safeguard the future of the planet and whether we can not only protect more species, but whether those already identified as being at risk and in need of protection are actually protected. we cannot tolerate the constant attack on the planet's biodiversity by those who want to keep endangered species as pets just for fun. we must ask whether, in particular, animals and plants which are victims of trafficking or illegal trade are being adequately dealt with by governments and their border controls, and whether the criminals are being punished appropriately. all elements in the trafficking chain must be subject to a firm and unrelenting response. more than amendments to conventions, which are also necessary, we need to strengthen the capacity of the judiciary to monitor and respond.
mr president, commissioner, in this question entitled 'combating depopulation through an instrument of cohesion policy', we all know that depopulation, ageing and rural abandonment are certainly among the main policy objectives of the commission and the member states. it is certainly a european priority, but how do we do it? we need to involve the people of the regions, the living forces, the municipalities, we need to create jobs - we all know this - public services, access to very high-speed internet networks, innovate in mobility, preserve the landscape, biodiversity, promote economic activities. the transition to the future has to be digital -- we all know that -- has to be green, but it also has to be demographic. and in fact - and this is the question - why should we, commissioner, not pre-assess the demographic impact of all european policies, especially in the area of cohesion and rural development? because if we don't, we're always putting money in, but the results aren't what we expect.
commissioner, we have discussed this a lot, and i cannot agree more with the commissioner and the sensitivity we acknowledge. but do you see that in europe and perhaps in each of the member states - and we are talking about our own member state, which we know well - is it true, as the commissioner has said, that the important centres close to the large capitals do not develop because the large capital attracts, and the other large spots of the territory, in the specific case of the low-density regions? that is why there is a lack of poles of attraction, and that is why i think cohesion policies should also be very targeted and very clear for those poles, precisely because this helps to balance each of the member states.
madam president, mr president, minister, commissioner, it should not be necessary to remind you that european democracies are based on fundamental values, including respect for the rule of law. but, yes, we have to! there are countries that are outside the rule. they actually try to convince us that they have a different view. but we all know that the rule of law is: separation of powers, independence of the judiciary, fight against corruption and respect for fundamental rights, for minorities, for freedom of expression and the press. we have a very strong foundation, which leaves us no doubt: the treaties of the european union. this regulation must be complied with in its entirety. the commission must be demanding and do everything possible to ensure that the european institutions, the european parliament and the citizens can have confidence in it. for example, it is not enough to say that hungary will set up an independent authority. it must ensure that this authority is in fact independent in its constitution and functioning and independent of the judicial system. this is the key point.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, we are talking here about a long history of denunciations of corruption, of attacks on the rule of law, of attacks on freedom of the press and freedom of expression. and we are talking about a long way to go in building a mechanism capable of protecting the european budget from this kind of attack. we have reached a point where we cannot accept half measures, nor can we accept half measures. it is our credibility, the credibility of all of us, of the european union, of the european commission and of the european council, that is at stake. our voters, our european citizens, our taxpayers will not forgive us if we take measures which are only half-measures and which are mere promises and mere make-up operations in order not to cut european funds and not to apply this mechanism. gentlemen, we are running out of time. it's now or never!
mr president, the death of mahsa amini at the hands of the iranian morality police, simply because she had the islamic veil wrongly placed, is a case of intolerable and shocking violence and restriction of the most basic rights of women. it's one of those cases that we thought no longer existed in our world, like female genital mutilation. but here they remain between us. more than our solidarity, today is our cry that joins all the iranian men and women who have since then, with great courage, demonstrated for their rights and for an end to repression in their country. mr high representative, the european union must continue to demand respect for women's rights in international institutions and in all its interactions with third countries, in development aid or in diplomatic missions. as this parliament has been advocating, our foreign policy must be a real weapon to promote and defend them throughout the world.
mr president, about ten years ago i was in iran. our guide, a young woman, shared with us the terror in which the young women lived. a lock of her hair would have been enough to escape from her veils. they lived in daily confrontation, on the way out of the house, on the way out of the university, with the so-called spontaneous morality groups. we have not forgotten the cost of the 1979 revolution for iranian women, when they had previously fought for freedom. today we are witnessing a morality police force which wants to force women to hide their bodies, which takes away their rights and freedoms, which kills them. the european union's concrete solidarity with these women, as well as with those men, women and young people who are finally, with great courage, standing up for fundamental values, is fundamental and urgent. not just the values that are rooted in european culture. we are talking about values and universal rights.
madam president, commissioner, i listened to your speech very carefully and it is clear that the promotion of stability in the horn of africa is essential to promote stability in the whole region and security and stability in europe as well. but i have not heard you speak about a very important issue at the moment, which is precisely the freedom of navigation in the red sea and the gulf of aden, which is crucial for energy flows, for european energy security and for the stability of security in the region. we all know the kind of criminal practices that exist in this area and so i would like to hear from you about the very worrying non-renewal of the un resolution on piracy and about operation atlanta, which was of crucial importance in promoting security in this area. i would also like to hear from you on the european strategy to deal with the growing dependence of african states on chinese investment and also on the russian presence, the presence of russian mercenaries who are increasingly creating instability in the region. this is a strategy for which we must count on the cooperation of the african union and the african states.
madam president, mr high representative, mr vice-president of the commission, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, another month has passed in the russian war of aggression against ukraine and, as the president of the european commission said, this was no ordinary month. it was a month of heroic re-conquest of territory by ukrainian forces, but also of a puppet annexation of ukrainian territories by the putin regime. the mock referendum is only a reveal of putin's democratic standards. voting with a gun pointed at you is not a vote, it's an assault, it's an assault on democracy. there is no middle ground on this issue, the annexations of ukrainian territories are immoral and illegal in the light of international law. no one can support such an action. ukraine has the right to defend itself and we europeans have a moral obligation to support it. history will judge severely those who side with putin, like many european far rightists, seeking to break the unity needed to confront him, but it will also judge those who ally themselves with this far rightist out of sheer lust for power. we must be clear in condemnation and decisive in action. and the action is first done with support for the ukrainians political, economic and military support , but it is also done with more sanctions that weaken the russian economy and its war machine, permanently stopping the purchase of energy, confiscating the assets of the oligarchs and putting them at the service of the reconstruction of ukraine. and let us not forget, it is also being done here in europe, by supporting all, indeed all, europeans who are suffering from the consequences of this war, by reforming the electricity and gas markets to combat speculation and to cut the bills now, as this parliament will vote, by calling for immediate action by the institutions, and by maintaining cohesion among europeans in support of ukraine, in a truly european response, united and not letting the least able suffer. and, commission president, commissioner, not only in repowereu, but also in supporting european families. what we really need is a european response of solidarity so that we can all together continue to support those who are fighting this war for freedom, this war that we did not seek but that we will help to win.
mr president, commission, commission, the commission has finally done its job. enhancing sustainable development in the european union's trade agreements is a longstanding ambition of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament. today, with this debate, we would like to urge the commission to extend this principle to new agreements, but also to existing agreements. the european union must have a clear strategy in the fight against forced and child labour, in the defence of universal human rights, including gender equality, and of social, labour and environmental rights. implementation and enforcement, including now the possibility of imposing trade sanctions for violations of the paris agreement or ilo conventions, are essential to the promotion of a fair international trade policy consistent with all european policies and values.
mr president, the scale of the tragedy in pakistan is undeniable and calls for our full solidarity and for the european union to step up humanitarian aid. we know very well that what has happened is the result of the climate change we are experiencing and the importance of combating this climate change. but in an emergency, you have to do more. in the face of the numerous examples of extreme situations that climate change is placing societies in, with increasingly catastrophic results, as is the case in pakistan, the european union needs to lead the global movement to adapt our urban structures and prevention plans to these types of threats. the european union must encourage this project, which must involve all the experts, in order to try to be one step ahead of the problems, rather than always reacting to the tragedy.
mr president, in recent times agricultural producers in portugal have been exposed and vulnerable to many natural phenomena and disasters, but they have long been confronted with the impositions of a cap which disregards small and medium-sized farming, which promotes and finances agribusiness, intensive and superintensive agriculture, which consumes more water, fertilisers and plant protection products, which destroys more soil, without an economic and social development which favours the territory and the people, rather than serving the interests and profits of the economic groups operating there. the consequences of the war, its instigation, the sanctions and the speculative actions and exploitation by the big economic groups have recently dragged small and medium-sized agricultural production into the street of bitterness and nobody wants to stand up for them. it is immoral that the same people who, during the pandemic, saw their profits grow at the expense of the suffering of thousands of people, now use the pretext of war to satisfy their insatiable hunger. we know that since last year, fertilisers have gone up by as much as 300%. the war has exacerbated the tendency to speculate on price increases, with the consequent rise in production costs. it is urgent to question the production model and to change the logic of production based on profit to production based on need, to guarantee the right to national production, particularly in the field of fertiliser production, to guarantee the right to food sovereignty and to apply the principle of national preference by replacing imports with national production, to guarantee fair prices for production to small and medium-sized farmers, to shorten trade circuits, and to intervene and regulate the value chain.
mr president, two and a half years since the pandemic was declared, we have already learned a lot from what has happened and we are looking at this very carefully in the covi committee. looking at this room right now, it seems like we're talking about a thing from the past, but the truth is, this is a very present thing. winter is coming, we are no longer in a position to prepare, but to act. it is important here that we do not make the same mistakes of the past. it is important here to ensure that the necessary immunizations are available to all and that they arrive together with the seasonal flu vaccination. transparency and information to citizens to combat misinformation are also important here, because only more health education will ensure the effectiveness of the protective measures in place. finally, covid-19 is a cross-border threat and already this week we made history, approving the new regulations for a european health union. now is the time to act and to make the european health union a reality.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, mr nicolas schmit, ladies and gentlemen, at the porto social summit, following a good proposal from the european commission put forward by commissioner nicolas schmit, european leaders committed themselves to reducing the number of people at risk of poverty by 15 million, including 5 million children. portugal has not only held the porto summit, where these objectives were enshrined, but has also already set up the child guarantee or the free daycare network. we would like to see the plans of many more countries come off the page, because with the energy crisis caused by putin's war, we risk seeing poverty increase instead of decrease. are we waiting for new initiatives from countries like portugal or the spanish presidency of the council of the european union to move forward with a new social summit that will put the promised measures into practice? we don't have that luxury. winter is upon us. on this international day for the eradication of poverty, in the face of the social emergency, we remind the commission and the council of their responsibility. we need to act now.
madam president, commissioner, on this day for the eradication of poverty, i would first like to recall a very sad reality: in europe, just over 10% of citizens live below the poverty line. the european policies we have put in place in recent years, notably with initiatives such as the mobilisation of €80 billion under the european social fund in 2014, have nonetheless been successful in reducing this trend. this is proof that our european model of a social market economy has a number of weapons to fight poverty. i consider that work, a paid job, is probably the best safety net. but we can see today, with covid and the war in ukraine, that this safety net is no longer enough because even those who work face serious difficulties, especially because of the cost of fuel. so it is our responsibility, more than ever, at european level, to find solutions, particularly to combat the price of energy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. poverty is not a natural law. inequality, social and economic disparities are man-made. it is gradually tearing europe and our societies apart. the gaps are widening and the rich are getting richer. today i would like to pay particular attention to women and children and to those workers who can barely afford to put food on the table - those who are in fact day labourers. many women in europe are unemployed or part-time workers and are also usually paid less than men. at the same time, millions of children in europe live below the poverty line and in exclusion. that is why we must adopt a policy which equalises the conditions in which children are brought up. this requires political will and a gradual redistribution of responsibilities within the member states. we will do this by creating more jobs, providing good education, secure employment and trade unionism, and a better safety net for those who need it most. combating poverty is our common responsibility, from the european level to the local level. europe can do better than that.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if you had to choose between turning on the heating or eating, what would you do? this is the question that millions of citizens throughout the union are asking themselves. already today millions of families live in poverty. rampant inflation and the energy crisis risk raising that number dramatically. the whole of europe, from this house to governments, has an obligation to act to prevent a genuine humanitarian emergency and it must do so now. the council discusses proposals to combat the energy crisis, discusses price caps, levies on extra profits, market reform. all of these measures are right, but they do not meet the urgent needs of the most vulnerable citizens. the pandemic has taught us this: the way out of the crisis is solidarity. the divisions in brussels must not be paid for by the people in distress. we need a common european fund which gives priority to support for households and micro and small enterprises. and, i would add, the stability and growth pact: your suspension must be extended. states need the fiscal space to finance large support packages. we don't have time to waste. winter is coming.
madam president, i often wonder what kind of heart those people have who pay out millions, billions in profits, but fail to see that their employees, their neighbors, their fellow citizens, cannot pay their basic bills. our discussion here must be a loud signal, a clear signal to all those that their conduct is shameful, unacceptable. and how can they look a fellow human in the eye if they do that? these are the war profiteers, and in the energy sector, with energy prices this high, that's certainly happening. this is unacceptable and shameful. so there's no need for poverty when we can share what we all create together. and that's why we have to tell all these exploiters: i'm not against working people, but i'm against exploiters.
madam president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, in 2021, like said, 95 million people in the eu were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this was equivalent to 21% of the eu population, and the risks are growing with the current energy crisis and inflation rate. we are the developed part of the world, but many of our citizens have difficulties in paying their bills at the end of the month. the risk of poverty increases, according to eurostat, if the individual is a woman, has children, is young or unemployed. for instance, 27% of young adults aged between 18 and 24 are affected by poverty, and the risk varies across the eu. romania, bulgaria and greece reported the highest shares of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. dear colleagues, our speeches in the plenary would not resolve the problems. we need, therefore, a european strategy against poverty, with concrete milestones, financial mechanisms and proactive policies implemented at all levels. ‘no one left behind’ should mean something, and this implies effective measures and clear targets to reduce poverty in all our regions. so, i support what commissioner schmit said, that we need to act together now in order to end poverty in europe.
madam president, the international day for the eradication of poverty, which is being marked today, brings to light worrying data on poverty in portugal. according to eurostat, at the end of 2021, 2.3 million were poor or at risk of poverty or social exclusion, which is equivalent to 22.4% of the portuguese population. between 2020 and 2021, poverty has worsened, not only in portugal but in the european union of 27, and the figures for 2022 will be even more worrying. as the rich get richer, the unfair distribution of wealth and inequality increases. the increase in wages and pensions, the fight against precariousness and the defence of employment with rights, the strengthening of public services and their universal access, public housing policies are fundamental, and these are measures which, combined with the taxation of large capital and the progressivity of tax systems, could reverse the trend of poverty that we are experiencing today. but they are not coming soon, because they are contrary to the neoliberal logic which has dominated the policies of the member states of the european union for decades.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the report to be voted on on the guidelines for employment policies contains some important agreements which improve the commission's proposal in terms of working conditions, wages, public services and the fight against poverty. it also has other interesting formulations on the role of parliament in this process and, in particular, on the european parliament's equating it with the council in all matters relating to the european semester. but it is in the disagreements around this report that we find the most enlightening debates, and it is indeed enlightening to see how the european right and far right are opposed to parliament having a role equivalent to that of the european council and how they advocate, for example, that companies which benefit from public support under the prr or the community budget, can take that public money and transfer it directly to the shareholders, without even having to ensure the maintenance of employment and working conditions for their workers. so the european right wants public money to go to finance companies that lay off workers and take that money and transfer it directly to the shareholders without going through the starting house. the right has also been the most vocal in its opposition to highly equivocal formulations on retirement pensions, such as those which focus on active ageing and which very poorly disguise plans to increase the retirement age, i.e. to impose on workers the costs of the crisis which have not reached everyone, especially those responsible for them.
mr president, commissioner schmit, 22% unemployment by 2030: that is the objective proposed by the european commission in these guidelines. it's a shame, you know? one in four unemployed workers. is this all that the european union can offer us? one out of every four of us on the street? but at the same time, the 2030 agenda talks about zero poverty. zero poverty? what is that? how did you do that? the intentions are clear: subsidy culture. you create poverty and then you market aid. let's change course, employment is the best social policy. let's talk about creating wealth, competitiveness, a market of prosperity where we can earn with dignity, with our effort, the sustenance of our families and be free (and not, as proposed here, dependent on any government).
mr president, the report is a road map for new harsh anti-worker measures under the pretext of the pandemic and the imperialist war in ukraine. in the name of the highly competitive labour market, it seeks to shield european monopolies in international competition in the face of the emerging capitalist crisis. behind declarations without any objection and guaranteeing decent wages and collective bargaining are hidden the frightening anti-working class reforms at the behest of the european union, such as the hatzidakis law in greece, the dismantling of the daily working time is promoted, the definition of wages as a minimum by the criteria of the household basket of products for the poor, the generalization of telework and contract slavery, the mobility of workers, as well as the free shot to social security. in this context, the persecution of workers fighting for their rights is escalating, such as the strikes of grassroots trade unions in italy, the 'demonstration trials' in greece, the conscription of workers in refineries in france. the anti-people policy of the european union-governments-monopolies is a cause of war for the workers and it is necessary to escalate the struggle with the all-union strike in greece on 9 november.
mr president, commissioner, our debate comes at a difficult time in france, where a social conflict is threatening our entire economy, leading to a fuel shortage. this is a real blow for workers and businesses, already suffering from the energy crisis and inflation. in the current situation, in france, but also elsewhere in europe, supporting employment is essential and is our first line of action to fight poverty. in europe, unemployment figures have fallen slightly in the past year. however, young people are still the most affected and have difficulty entering the labour market. it is therefore more imperative than ever to focus on training to develop the skills of workers of today and tomorrow. the matching of training with the needs of enterprises is really essential for the proper functioning of the labour market: it is the best way to combat unemployment. as the spectre of recession looms over europe, we must redouble our efforts.
mr president, dear colleagues, the commission is putting forward the document like only the existing challenges are to be solved: gender pay gap, tackling undeclared work, youth employment, etc. but being previously the rapporteur on guidelines, i agree that these are certainly important issues, but these are not the main challenges the employment market will face in the upcoming period. in—work poverty: this will become a real disaster and not only for poorer eu member states like mine, latvia, but also for western and central european countries. the problem of uncontrolled employment of third—country nationals will become screaming very soon. and finally, of course, drastic job loss. we have to look for new solutions. we may come up with an ambitious proposal for a minimum income directive, not only the minimum wage directive. we also have to start discussions about unconditional basic income. one thing is absolutely clear: in an unusual situation, the usual solutions will not work.
member of the commission. – mr president, i agree with you that in the current cost of living crisis, we need to support workers; we have to help companies and ensure decent working conditions for all. strengthening the social shield is more necessary than ever. the updated employment guidelines are, in this respect, a very important element and can serve as guidance for member states to overcome the crisis we are facing and especially to improve social cohesion. this afternoon, we had a very important debate on poverty eradication. well, to eradicate poverty, the first and best way to do so is good—quality jobs with decent wages. yes, we have to invest in our economy, but we also have to invest in people – investing in people, in their skills, but also investing in gender equality, in diversity, which is a decisive element of inclusive labour markets. all that starts with children – because if children are lost, if children do not get the right opportunities, well, what happens then? once they are older and they try to get into the labour market, they will not be able to find good jobs. they will not have decent wages. and we are going in the direction of more exclusion, of more inequality. this is an important part of good labour market policies: start with children. without that, there are no inclusive labour markets and europe will not be able in the coming years and decades to build a green and digital economy. yes, digital skills are key. and where and when should you learn digital skills? yes, certainly, lifelong learning, but the best is to learn when you are young, when you are at school, and to give older children the right opportunities. labour markets are changing and there is a broad understanding that equality and fairness, but also good working conditions, are essential for a strong, innovative european economy that benefits all.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 18 october 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. it is impossible to have this debate without bearing in mind that the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states are part of the european semester process, which usurps sovereign powers of the states, which imposes, conditions and controls democratic and sovereign political options in the field of budgetary policy, but also social and labour policy, a process that functions as a check on the implementation of the stability and growth pact and the budget treaty. this intimate relationship and the threats, including sanctions, that flow from it are responsible for years of economic stagnation, deregulation and regression of labour and social rights, the deepening of inequalities, the limitation of public investment or the liberalisation of strategic sectors. we do not exclude the responsibility that the european union and its policies have had for the deterioration of working and social conditions, the increase in exploitation, unemployment and poverty, the reduction of wages, which is the path that the right wing of this parliament wants to follow in this report.
mr president, in portugal this weekend tens of thousands of workers, young people and pensioners took to the streets in lisbon and oporto. they do not accept the degradation of wages, the degradation of pensions, the attack on public services, the speculation in the prices of essential goods and energy. they shouted loudly that the cost of living is rising and the people can't take it. at the same time, billions of euros are being accumulated in the profits of economic groups, food, energy, large retailers and multinationals. the increase in social injustice is unacceptable under any circumstances, and even less so in this particular situation. we welcome the workers and their unions for this further initiative of strength, which is at the same time a sign of hope, of confidence, of the possibility of another way. and we reaffirm our commitment to workers and their struggle to defend and improve their working and living conditions.
mr president, commissioners, council and members, stopping populism in europe is helping families in their time of suffering. the european parliament has already said that it is not possible to make a decision on the future of the community without the involvement of the european parliament. we need a european response so that no one is left behind, otherwise we will all end up suffering, because we are just a market and only the populists will laugh again. let's learn from what we did wrong in the financial crisis and what we did right in the covid crisis. we saved europe with more europe in the covid crisis. we will use what we already have and we will build a european response to this crisis and to the future. and let us do so in a cohesive and fair way by building a single energy market, buying and transporting energy together across europe, stopping speculation in energy markets together and looking for resources where they are. it's accumulating in the hands of the super rich, it's accumulating in the super profits of many corporations. and please, don't play games with those who are suffering the most. who would think of asking the ecb to raise interest rates even more? does the epp not know the reality of the lives of europeans, their suffering? don't you know how much it costs to heat houses and buy food these days? did i really have to ask the ecb to inflict more pain on households, raise interest rates more, leading to higher housing loans? is the epp for families and jobs or are we back to the time of the epp moralists who invented austerity as a response to the financial crisis? what's up, p.e.e.?
mr president, one of the main economic and social consequences of the war was the return of the logic of austerity. and unfortunately, it is not only in the epp that we see this return. in portugal, wages and pensions will have one of the largest reductions in real terms in recent years and the largest decline in the weight of wages in national income in the history of our democracy. and this is what is happening to the socialist government, the same government which opposed, and will only be dragged along, until the last minute, the taxation of the extraordinary profits of the energy companies and which has just now decided to reduce the taxation of the large companies. the same socialist government whose finance minister has just supported the raising of interest rates, the epp is not alone in this, and so what we are seeing is the return, in some parts of europe, of the recipes which failed spectacularly in the response to the financial crisis and which are being adopted again by governments of the most varied political families.
mr president, historical levels of inflation go beyond numbers or statistics. they show us the difficulties of families without money to meet their basic needs. the increase in the price of food, energy or transport is throwing families into despair, families who have a large part of the month left over at the end of their salary. and the critical phase of winter is yet to come. but there are already many people who cannot afford to heat their homes, living in situations of real energy poverty. and that is why, more than regrets, we need concrete measures. limits on prices or taxes on extraordinary profits must be concerted measures at european level and must be designed to protect households and businesses, to ensure the well-being of people and to keep our economy running. a final word to the national governments, and in particular to the portuguese: they cannot limit themselves to superficial measures and blame the international situation. much more is required, political responsibility is required in the management of this crisis.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, mental illness affects all social strata and all age groups and has only worsened with the covid-19 pandemic. it's now the second leading cause of morbidity, and over the last two years, symptoms of anxiety and depression have more than doubled. the question that is being asked here is, fundamentally, whether we are going to turn on the light and see the problem that we have in front of us or whether we are going to remain in the dark without giving an answer to the citizens. i call here for a real debate on this public health issue and for us to bring in more legislative initiatives to combat stigma, improve access to mental health care and contribute to the reintegration of all citizens into society in a healthy and functional way. ladies and gentlemen, let us not ignore the citizens, from the youngest to the oldest. we must face the problem head on, we must do more and we must work here for a real european strategy on mental health. i say here, we turn on the light.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – madam president, let’s be realistic. i mean, what the council has been suggesting is that no less than 40% of all the suggested cuts fall on horizon europe. so 40% is on innovation – the innovation we need for everything we are going to endeavour in the coming years. if you look a little bit closer, it is just 7% of the budget, but you impose 40% of the cuts. i mean, if you give a madman a nail and you puncture the horizon budget, you come up with your proposal. you cut eur 180 million off the proposal on digital europe. at the same time, you’re selling to the international audience a chip programme; you’re selling that. you promised already. you want to have 3.3 billion for that budget, and rightly so. it is one of europe’s ambitions. but at the same time, you cut the digital budget before we even started the discussion of where and how to finance new ambitions. so, let’s be realistic. either you say ‘no’ to innovation in europe, or we should start to negotiate.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. the opinion of the committee on the internal market is, as always, relatively balanced, because we do earn a good deal of the money that the member states and the commission spend. it was therefore not a big problem to agree on the opinion here, but i would like to highlight two issues which are of particular importance to the colleagues on the committee on the internal market. we know that in the budgetary procedure we as members of parliament defend our budget, the commission defends its budget and the council tries to pay as little as possible. we respect that. but the legislation on the digital markets act and the digital services act is about us creating a new regulatory unit across europe that will allow us to work together not only to better enforce the principle of the social market economy, but also to provide revenue to the commission and to reduce the responsibilities of the member states. that is why we are all calling - and i am only one of many here as rapporteur for the committee on the internal market - for the european commission to be given new staff in the area where it is taking over responsibilities from the member states, staff that is no longer needed by the member states. parliament has only regulatory interests and is somewhat supportive of the european commission's idea. we know that the budgetary procedure is not so simple, and i would therefore like to thank the colleagues who are responsible for this procedure, niclas herbst and mr lewandowski, for their support and i hope that we will have a serious discussion of this matter.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. madam president, in 2023 and every year, the union budget must respond to the needs of european citizens, romanian, bulgarian, german or dutch. the money has to go to the people who pay for the energy bills, the record inflation, the drought, the aftermath of the pandemic and putin's war. transport, tourism, the labour market, all are settled by citizens, especially if national governments and the european union treat them too bureaucratically, incoherently, insufficiently and too late. it's been a tough year for all of us, but i don't know how some people pay more. truck drivers, teachers, medical staff, pensioners in particular, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, farmers and all vulnerable categories. we have a duty to support them more, and in my committees, on budget and transport and tourism, we've been able to get funding for safe parking and better public transport. the european public prosecutor's office headed by laura codruța kövesi and all european institutions that stop criminals must receive the requested budget. their results are seen quickly, and european money is recovered. the 2023 budget follows that line and it's good that it does. member countries are rich and the union has money to make us all better off, but we must stop corruption and all the crimes that plague us, including environmental crimes, from illegal logging to waste trade. just as those who attack us from outside or inside, all must pay. the violation of the rule of law, the non-compliance with the sanctions imposed on russia, we can no longer tolerate. i asked that the fund for the reconstruction of ukraine receive the money confiscated from the oligarchs. i asked for european money to go directly to those who help ukrainians from day one.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, commissioner, council, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm), i would very much like to thank the rapporteurs and the budget committee for their very good work. as was already mentioned, the circumstances for this year’s budgetary procedure are very challenging, and i very much acknowledge the efforts to achieve a very good compromise. the femm committee delivered a strong opinion, and i am glad that some crucial elements are reflected in the parliament’s overall amendments in the budgetary resolution. first of all, the proposed increase of the daphne strand by eur 2 million above the draft budget is a clear acknowledgement of the importance of tackling the alarming problem of gender based violence. although this is considerably less than our committee would have liked to see, it is a crucial signal to increase the funding for the daphne strand. secondly, the very good wording regarding the commission’s efforts for a methodology to measure the gender impact of the union’s funding. the budgetary resolution includes concrete demands on measures, on scope and on gender disaggregated data. this type of scrutiny is very important, and parliament’s strong stance on the eu4 health programme and the inclusion of our committee’s perspective that universal health coverage across the union needs to include quality access to sexual and reproductive health and rights is necessary to involve. lastly, specific support for equality for civil society organisations defending women’s rights and the rights of the lgbtiq community under heading six ‘neighbourhood and the world’ is very important, and i would like to stress that this will be crucial to defend in the upcoming negotiations.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president! the 2023 budget is the first wartime budget in the pacifist nature of the european union, the last budget for the 2014-2020 perspective that i designed, and the last year for the contracting of national reconstruction plans. it may seem surprising that in such extraordinary circumstances the council's budgetary position is business as usual, i.e. cuts, in part contrary to the preferences or declarations of the czech presidency. the position of the parliament is in line with these extraordinary circumstances, because when, if not now, should we have recourse to all the possibilities of the european budget, not only the modest margins but also, for example, these commitments? and our virtually unanimous vote means unity in parliament, which is a good prerequisite for effective negotiations. the priorities of the european parliament are clear to the people. the social and economic consequences of pandemics and war need to be addressed, europe's competitiveness and resilience need to be strengthened, and investments that create jobs need to be supported in areas such as green governance and the digital economy. i hope that's the budget that comes out of the reconciliation. people don't wait, they don't wait for interagency disputes, people wait for results. europe should deliver.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the european union is facing unprecedented challenges and a series of crises that directly affect citizens. the effect of the pandemic and of the war in ukraine have led to rising inflation, rising energy prices and falling purchasing power across europe. in this context, we must identify together the best solutions and endow our union with the appropriate means to respond to citizens’ pressing needs. the socialists and democrats group requested that the 2023 european budget uses all financial and technical means available to protect citizens and smes from the effects of this crisis, offering the union real prospects for development. our political group has pushed for increased resources of around eur 300 million on energy—related measures, including research, investment and the development of green energy, designed to protect citizens against increased energy prices. in the same line, we propose the allocation of additional financial resources of eur 60 million for smes by supplementing the specific related programmes but also by supporting the recovery of the cultural and creative sectors affected by the pandemic. increased attention has also been given to health by increasing by eur 150 million the actions aimed, for example, at providing solutions for the long—term effects generated by covid. to these extremely important issues we added concrete actions related to the war in ukraine: the support of states on the front line, such as romania and poland, and refugees, especially young people and minors from the conflict areas. the increase of eur 250 million in humanitarian aid funds, the addition of funds for the eastern and southern neighbourhoods, including the republic of moldova, and the allocation of an additional eur 100 million for member states to assist them in receiving migrants, will allow us to better manage the effects of the war. an important aspect is the increase in funds for the management of the external borders of the union and the fact that, once again, at the request of the s&d group, the european parliament calls for and includes additional amounts for the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. to this measure is added an increase of eur 210 million for the erasmus+ programme, both for the access to education of young ukrainians and for the continuation of mobility and educational programmes affected by the increase in living costs. i am particularly happy that the pilot project that i have proposed together with vice—president kaili will allow us the monitoring of children coming from ukraine in such a way as to prevent human trafficking and ensure a safe future. i also welcome the inclusion of a reference in our resolution by which the commission is invited to identify solutions for saving the unspent funds from the previous financial period and allocating these resources to the frontline countries affected by the war in ukraine. in these uncertain times of our workers, it is also of paramount importance to continue supporting social dialogue and workers’ training and ensuring a stable funding for those initiatives. everyone is feeling the effect of the current crisis and the european programmes are seriously affected by the galloping inflation. that is why we call for the review of the multiannual financial framework in order to build an ambitious and flexible budget that provides concrete and common answers to the challenges we face in such a way no one is left behind.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, mr representative of the czech presidency of the union, ladies and gentlemen, 2023 is another exceptional year for the budget of the european union, in particular because of the consequences of the war in ukraine. i say yes again because 2021 and 2022 have already been in response to the health crisis. europe, ladies and gentlemen, has shown itself to be up to the task. but to be up to it, you have to be able to afford it. this is what we have done with the group purchase of vaccines and the implementation of a european covid certificate. we have also done so with the adoption of an exceptional recovery plan and the principle of a common debt. it is by being more united, by ensuring better coordination between member states that we are stronger together. we face many challenges and our citizens expect us to meet them at european level. however, as you know, commissioner, we are reaching the limits of the multiannual financial contract only three years after its adoption. inflation and rising energy prices have an impact on all budgets, especially those of our institutions and agencies. they are what make the european union work. we must set an example in the management of this budget without hindering their operation in the service of the citizens. i would like to thank my colleague nicolae ştefănuţă, who was able to find a compromise with the various groups and propose an ambitious and necessary budget, setting priorities to deal with the major challenges ahead. the european budget is the cornerstone of our union. it's essential to its proper functioning. without this, the policies and reforms we are voting on here will have no chance of succeeding. without this, for example, and this is central, the implementation of the 'fit for 55' package and the green deal would be nothing but a utopia. this budget is what allows us to live up to it. we must be vigilant in the face of the rise of populism in europe, which is making europe a scapegoat. we must also protect this budget from those who use it for their own purposes, without respecting the fundamental principles of the rule of law which are the essential foundations of the european construction. for this we have the mechanism of conditionality on the rule of law and we must not be afraid, ladies and gentlemen, to use it. that is why i call on the commission once again to use this mechanism to protect this european budget, commissioner.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear all, the european union budget for 2023 is not a merely standard procedure where we should just present normal budgetary lines and carry on with our standard work. we live in times of urgency. we have to tackle the climate catastrophe that we are on. we have to address war in our borders. we have to prepare for possible humanitarian crisis. and we need to mitigate the huge impacts that energy prices and overall high inflation will have on our citizens’ life. the eu budget is the most powerful tool that we as a union have to try to influence also the rest of the world into doing what needs to be done. although we understand the special circumstances that led to the timing of this year’s amending letter by the commission, it does not employ the best practices and it influences the european parliament’s ability to fulfil properly its role as a budgetary authority. we would hope that this doesn’t repeat itself. let me address just three main issues on this amending letter. first, we will welcome the humanitarian aid increase, although it is still not as sufficient as we think. with the escalation of russian attacks on civil targets in ukraine, we have to expect further increases on humanitarian needs next year. unfortunately, this goes also for humanitarian needs regarding climate change. in the amending letter, it is stated that further reinforcements in the course of 2023 are likely to be needed in the eu, so it has to sustain its 2022 humanitarian assistance and support the sharp increase of number of people in need. so we would like to question why this proposal was not made now, and will this be a proposal on the negotiations? secondly, it is a positive sign that we see a reinforcement of the union civil protection mechanism. to be able to react to more severe impacts on climate change, although there should also be increases in the parts of the budget that invest on fighting climate change and speed up our efforts. in this regard, the eu budgets is the best way to do that. finally, on the issue of the european union recovery instruments: the reinforcement of euri of 450 million is extremely large. the european parliament has warned repeatedly that having the euri line in heading 2b is unsustainable, and that the nextgenerationeu interest costs and repayments should be counted over and above mff ceilings. will the commission ever make this proposal? how is it planning to deal with the situation? and also finalising the position on the council for us is quite disappointing in conditions that we are living in. the council calls for prudence in its approach, but for us it is quite questionable and disappointing. we need more ambition for next year’s budget, not blunt cuts. and overall we believe that the european parliament has presented a realistic and powerful proposal and with the rapporteur, ms ştefănuță, and all my shadow colleagues, i think we can push for a 2023 budget that properly reflects our priorities, our visions and our citizens’ needs.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, it is less than two years since we concluded the negotiations on the 2021-2027 mff and there are already many shortcomings. we were facing covid. we have built a european response anchored in the budget of the european union. we now have a new reality: the russian aggression in ukraine. now, if we want a european response to the impact of war, to rising energy prices, to rising interest rates and food insecurity, to mitigate the social impact, to create a winter solidarity package, how? create an instrument of the sure type? if we want capacity to react to the immediate consequences of war, support for refugees, fair burden sharing between member states, support for neighbouring countries; if we want to build a strategic autonomy for the european union, then energy autonomy first. if we want science and innovation to contribute to these goals, to accelerate environmentally and socially sustainable investment in renewable energy, energy efficiency and saving measures, sustainable technologies that support an industrial policy compatible with the paris objectives; if we want to keep the european single market functioning properly and prevent its fragmentation; if we want to follow up on the proposals that president von der leyen put to us in the state of the union debate: without a review of the mff, we may want to, but we will not be able to give an answer. the debate on the 2023 budget is showing us the need and the urgency for a comprehensive review of the current mff and the position expressed here by the council at the beginning of this debate does not leave us in peace. there is still a long way to go in this 2023 budget negotiation if we want consistency between political ambition and budgetary capacity.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, vice—president šefčovič, colleagues, i’d like to thank the commission for its strong work on the assistance for ukraine, the sanctions against russia and the measures responding to the disruptions in the energy markets. however, this coming winter, in the next year, will be one of the hardest in our memory. our response must be adapted to the unprecedented circumstances, as my colleague mr olbrycht just said, and i fully concur. if i’m honest with you, commissioner, i’m concerned that what is being proposed falls short of what european citizens expect, specifically in terms of the economic and social response to the crisis. at the initiative of my group, the conference of presidents adopted in june a clear set of demands for this work programme. commissioner, we are left wondering if the president of the commission even received a copy of such demands. those demands included the strengthening of the social rights action plan, the urgent organisation of a new social summit, and a comprehensive european anti-poverty strategy adapted to the current situation. they are nowhere to be found in this document before us today. it is not acceptable that on this matter, on the social dimension, we might be satisfied with generic lines on the need to deliver on the porto social agenda and summit. my group firmly believes that the successes of temporary instruments like sure and like next generation eu should be built upon and converted into a permanent fiscal capacity and common crisis response instruments. we must learn from the lessons that the past brought us. jumping from one ad hoc temporary instrument to another is simply not good enough. we hope the commission will accept the need for a full reform of the economic governance review, including the fiscal rules, sooner and not later. we expect the proposals to be delivered rapidly. for the electricity market, it’s exactly the same. the market system ‘does not work any more’, said the president of the commission in this parliament four months ago. two weeks ago, she committed to presenting proposals for the reform of the electricity market by the end of the year. it is disappointing that, in this proposal for the work programme, it is delayed now until the third quarter of next year. we need reforms now, not a year from now. it’s very important that we can deliver now on this matter. with difficult times comes the risk of the rise of the extremists, of the populists, of the anti—democratic. we need to be able to deliver towards the central democratic forces and we cannot be taken hostage by some governments in europe, particularly those subject to article 7. let me remind you that, in the candidacy of president von der leyen, she committed to and i quote, ‘make use of the clauses in the treaties that allow proposals on taxation to be adopted by co—decision and decided by qualified majority’. will the commission live up to these promises on the matter of qualified majority voting? commissioner, i will conclude by urging the commission to turbocharge its ambition on the socio—economic response to this crisis. we must do more, we must do it better, and we must do it now.
in writing. the renewed strategy for the outermost regions, published in may 2022, sets out the priorities for eu action to support the recovery and sustainable growth in its outermost regions, realising their growth potential and helping to close the quality of life gap between these regions and the rest of the union. to this end, and as recognised in the communication, it is necessary that legislation to be adopted next year takes account of the specificities of these regions, without forgetting to analyse the impacts of the legislation on these regions. we saw this happen in the negotiations of the legislative package fit for 55 and it is up to the co-legislators the european parliament and the council of the european union (eu) to ensure that these regions are protected, as well as to ensure that the potential of the climate transition is realised in them, leaving no one behind. it calls for better consideration of specificities in future legislative proposals in areas such as the environment, economic governance, digitalisation and others. only in this way will it be possible to bring the eu's work closer to citizens, even those living in the remotest regions, and to demonstrate that european legislation is inclusive and responds to the needs of all citizens.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the challenge of climate change is enormous and must be met. for this reason, this parliament has been the most ambitious european institution in demanding the climate transition. as we know, europeans are doing the most to combat climate change. this is also why actions by activists who do nothing more than damage art and heritage are nothing more than media spectacles that we should condemn and that have no practical consequence and no gain for the planet or the environmental cause. it is not by destroying cultural heritage that we preserve environmental heritage. we know our priorities for this cop 27. the unjustified russian invasion of ukraine makes the european energy transition even more urgent. in addition to the death and destruction he is spreading, putin is damaging the european and world economy and is one of the main responsible for the prolonged operation of coal-fired power stations and their consequences on the environment. but our autonomy can be guaranteed and energy prices can be brought down with investments in renewable energy. the repowereu plan further increases the eu's climate ambition beyond the ongoing reductions resulting from the european climate law and may go beyond the 55% emission reduction targeted by 2030. we therefore ask the council and the national governments what is lacking, apart from political courage, to endorse parliament's positions on this matter? we also ask the commission what it intends to do to ensure that all parties meet the overall objective of the paris agreement. how do you think you can increase the role of private enterprise in the transition and do you not think that internally we have left behind the support for adaptation and the increase of the resilience of territories? ladies and gentlemen, despite the conflict with russia, a return to fossil fuels must be avoided at all costs. and the european political leaders who are now blocking energy interconnections, particularly with the iberian peninsula, must be denounced. we need solidarity and responsibility. and we have to say, there are european leaders who are blocking energy interconnections with portugal and spain so that they can sell more expensive energy to the rest of europe and thereby block solutions that would help people get access to cheaper, renewable energy. emmanuel macron and his government are today the face of european selfishness. we need to meet the targets for public and private investment to slow down and adapt to climate change, with consequences as severe as those we have seen across europe. the poorest countries must be supported in their transition to clean energy and we must rapidly and strategically increase investment in innovation and clean technologies. while the epp wants decarbonisation, the radical left wants deindustrialisation and the destruction of the economy. cities, as the territories where a large proportion of the population and greenhouse gas emissions are concentrated, need to play a more relevant role in mitigating and adapting to climate change. moreover, not everything should be left in the hands of national governments, particularly when many of them do not show the capacity to do what needs to be done, as, for example, the portuguese government does in the face of the desertification affecting southern europe or the forest fires that every year claim several lives. but we're going into this cop with our eyes on what the world can do better. egypt, being a country with a great past, can also be the country where a giant step is taken towards a better future. we have a duty and an obligation to leave a better world to the young and future generations.
mr president, thank you for your time for the 'catch-the-eye' in what is such an important debate. the climate crisis is very much present in our daily lives, and while there are signs that call for more action, we have been putting off efforts that we can do today until later. every year, we have opportunities to inspire more action, to become good examples of good practice, to produce effective and innovative legislation, but it has not been enough. science has repeatedly demonstrated that we will not be able to limit the increase in temperature on this planet. generations above me are worried. my generation is scared. the younger generations are terrified. and it's in these generations that the decisions that were made by our parents, by our grandparents and the decisions that we make here today, at this very moment, are going to be felt most intensely. i therefore urge us to make good, bold decisions, to think ahead and not to leave anyone behind, because we do not have a planet b.
mr president, commissioner, the european union has taken in millions of refugees fleeing the war provoked by russia's invasion of ukraine. a huge wave of solidarity that touched us all. did everything go all right? no, i'm not going. students, especially africans, who attended universities in ukraine, had more difficulty. i know that the commissioner is committed to speeding up these processes, but european solidarity has worked and is working. refugees who fill this stream are entitled, well, to schooling, employment, health care, expedited temporary protection status. we have, well, a directive that was passed in 2001 that we had not acted on before. commissioner, what lessons have we learned from this migration flow that can influence the policy and, above all, the behaviour of the european union and the member states in the future?
madam president, almost every crisis we have known in history has widened inequalities and pushed back into poverty even those who had already gotten out of it. this was the case in the 2008 financial crisis, to which the european union responded with austerity, and we all remember the effects of the harmful effects this had on the member states and, above all, on the image of europe. in the recent pandemic crisis, the union has responded with solidarity and this has reinforced its relevance to all citizens. in this crisis the response must be the same, concrete, swift, supportive and creative. this is the political orientation we expect from the european council and the other institutions, with their eyes on the citizens. we need to control energy prices and buy it together, as we did with vaccines, to make the use of european funds more flexible, to strengthen public services, to make public transport cheaper, in short, to improve social responses, as we are doing in portugal. what we cannot allow is that this winter there are families who are faced with the choice between buying food or keeping the lights on.
madam president, commission, council, we were pleased to hear president von der leyen list the measures which are now leading to a reduction in the energy bills of europeans and the gradual building of the energy autonomy of the european union. necessary but late and not yet ambitious. he hinted that the commission could deepen repowereu. are we heading for the necessary union for energy? in fact, it is a concept that vice-president šefčovič is well aware of. when is a sure-type mechanism due? vice-president, the support of europeans for the european values that have mobilized them is essential in this war, but it cannot come at a brutal cost. the far right is watching!
mr president, the fight against the far right is not to be naïve, aloof or delayed and must be carried out in strict accordance with the rules of the democratic rule of law. special attention should be paid to the financing of radical movements through corruption, money laundering and cryptocurrency schemes, but also to the clear fight against racism, xenophobia, homophobia, hate speech and appeals to fascist values. the progressive normalisation of the far right by the centre-right and the liberals, which we have been witnessing in the european union, is no longer a mere threat. we see its effects in hungary and poland, we are going to see them in italy and sweden and we are also beginning to see them in portugal, where in the azores the psd, whose members sit here in the epp group, have gone hand in hand with the extreme right to gain power in the regional government. it is not enough to clap your hands and talk about democracy. it's time to part ways.
madam president, the return of war to europe and the decisions taken this summer on enlargement make this a strategic report, perhaps the most strategic in recent years. it cannot therefore be a mere monitoring instrument, it must play a clear policy-setting role and serbia's position must be definitively clarified. we are not just a community of economic interests, we are also a community of values. what happened to albania and north macedonia, whose cases ended up in the hands of internal disputes within the european union, must not happen again. we have to learn from them. the accession process cannot be a matter of convenience, but it cannot be dragged on indefinitely either. the reforms undertaken by the countries must have a clear response and a prompt response from the union. commissioner, it is not enough to say that the western balkans are part of europe and that we are not leaving them alone. the citizens of the western balkans want to be full citizens of the european union.
mr president, it is essential that society is aware and focused on combating violence against women, of whatever nature it may be, domestic violence, trafficking in women, dating violence, prostitution or, finally, workplace and sexual harassment. above all, it must be acknowledged that the roots of these forms of violence lie in the growing social inequalities, which particularly affect women. we live in a time of a return to old forms of exploitation, with the worsening of poverty and social exclusion, the vulnerability of the poorest. prostitution is an example of this, constituting a devastating form of violence exercised mainly against women. it is also an expression of social inequalities and a form of slavery that attacks women's bodies and dignity. the eradication of violence necessarily requires a change in political, economic, social and cultural models which aim at the elimination of all forms of violence against women, but which also aim at the eradication of poverty and the elimination of inequalities, the strengthening of social and labour protection, with the end of precariousness and the increase of wages. and the women appreciate it.
madam president, lukashenko's usurpation of power is not new and did not occur only in 2020. we all remember the 2010 elections, in which andrei sannikov ran against lukashenko and how those elections were rigged. and like many, many belarusians ended up in detention, due to the protests that took place in the streets of belarus. once again, the phenomenon repeated itself in 2020. once again, lukashenko has continued to lead the destinies of belarus, in a total usurpation of power and in an absolute manipulation, because yes, yes, lukashenko has always been putin's hand man and puppet. let us now also talk about a moment when the drums of war are sounding and the attacks are coming from belarusian territory. it's time to lift the sanctions regime. it is time to clearly sanction lukashenko and his henchmen. but it is also time to look to those like paulina panasiuk and bialiatski and the more than 1300 political prisoners in belarus and help belarusian civil society to free itself once and for all from this dictatorial regime.
the creation of the european political community as a forum for political dialogue and cooperation at the highest level is a step towards solutions for peace, security, stability and prosperity in europe. the participation of european countries, naturally leaving russia and belarus out, showed a united front in favour of multilateralism in international law, leaving the russian regime even more isolated politically in its war of aggression against ukraine. it is important to continue this dialogue mechanism to face the many challenges facing the continent, without prejudice to the existing institutional levels and structures, whose role is consolidated and to which this european political community must not, cannot override, such as the council of europe or the osce. and without prejudice to well-established union policies, in particular the enlargement and neighbourhood policies, which cannot be weakened and, on the contrary, need a strong impetus themselves, which must, moreover, develop alongside institutional reform and the deepening of the union. this is therefore an important forum for dialogue between european states at the present time, which should strengthen europe's geopolitical relevance without weakening any of our institutions.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. there is no doubt that the covid pandemic, as well as russia's aggression against ukraine, has brought the world into a state of global food security crisis. if 40% of wheat imports to africa came from two countries, namely russia and ukraine, if 50% of the demand for grain of the world food program came from ukraine, then the russian aggression against ukraine caused a complete destabilization of the food market. moreover, russia has done everything it can to destabilize the food market, destroying crops in ukraine and destroying infrastructure, and finally blocking black sea ports. it's a shame, then, that the g20 agriculture ministers meeting in bali failed to point to russia as the main culprit in what's happening in the food market. in this context, it is indeed important to highlight the european union's enormous role in building the solidarity corridors, those by land, and later also in the negotiations leading to the unblocking of the black sea ports. the european union, the european commission, all of us should be working to increase the productive capacity of european agriculture. a good step is to suspend the land clearing or the fertilizer strategy announced by commissioner wojciechowski. let us hope that it will meet the expectations of the farmers. in view of this, for example, the proposal for a regulation to reduce the use of pesticides, even in such an absurd way that by 50% in all countries, regardless of how much they use these pesticides, is simply unacceptable.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the conclusions of the g20 agriculture ministers are far from responding to the current emergency situation and food shortages that some people are experiencing. on the contrary, the measures in question are designed to satisfy just one more market, that of innovation and technological agriculture. once again, we see world leaders bending over backwards, rejoicing at the prospect of opening up agribusiness, intensive agriculture, now, under the pretext of access to new technologies. the age-old problem of food scarcity and lack of food security and food sovereignty is the result of the neoliberal agenda, which prioritizes corporate profits over the needs of the people and small farmers. it is therefore necessary to change the logic of production based on profit to production based on need, to change the production model, or to implement a policy that ensures that small and medium-sized producers are guaranteed fair and compensatory prices and guarantees the right to healthy and adequate food, ensuring food sovereignty and food security for the people. and the g20 has said nothing about this!
mr president, mr president michel, mr vice-president šefčovič, we have followed the last council closely because of the importance of its agenda and its conclusions. we recognize the developments, albeit late, in the energy files, but we are seriously concerned by the demonstrated inability to maintain a united front in support of ukraine with regard to macrofinancial support. how could president ursula von der leyen have gone to kiev these days to promise another 18 billion euros of macrofinancial support if not even the funds committed for this year are secured and already with the promise of a new veto from hungary. this is completely unacceptable. the support for european households and small businesses that suffer from energy costs must also be given a certain amount of attention. when will there be a truly european response? my political family, through its leader iratxe garcia pérez, has just presented a winter solidarity plan for european families, with 15 concrete proposals for action that go far beyond the control of energy prices, although it is necessary. it includes a fund of at least 100 billion euros to directly support families who are suffering. we have the resources in the budgets we have approved. let's see if we have the political will. we need a new serum. we need to go to the right place to get resources: to those who have gained from this crisis, to help those who have less. madam president, you will receive our specific proposals. europeans cannot wait any longer.
mr president, the joint purchase of gas, the taxes on the extraordinary profits of companies during this phase are positive decisions of the european council. but as iratxe garcia pérez said, it was a missed opportunity. we must be prepared for the time of decision, because it cannot be the citizens who pay the costs of this war and we cannot abandon the citizens. we know the time of decision and therefore we need to have mechanisms, to be protected, without calling into question the democratic decision-making system to act more quickly. that is why it is essential to introduce as soon as possible a permanent mechanism in the budget of the european union which can be activated in times of crisis to speed up the decision. we all know that between the decision to create nextgenerationeu and the first time the commission went to the markets, about ten months passed.
on behalf of the s&d group. – thank you, mr president. woman, life, freedom: that is the slogan under which the extraordinarily brave iranian women and men filled the streets of tehran and other iranian cities to demand respect for the basic human rights and dignity. these protests, sparked by outrage over the killing by the so-called morality police of the young iranian mahsa amini for alleged improper veiling, were focused on women’s rights, but they transformed into a broader movement against the oppressive rules and the authoritarian government, stifling the lives and freedom of the iranian people. as the eu, we support strongly and unambiguously the aspirations of the iranian people to live in a peaceful, democratic, free country, respectful of its international and domestic human rights obligations. we condemn in the strongest possible ways the brutal repression unleashed by the authorities of the islamic republic on its own citizens who only seek to live their lives in freedom and dignity. we are in particular outraged by the call of a majority of the iranian parliament to execute the protesters. this is absolutely unacceptable and we strongly condemn such incitement and mass state violence. we hope that more moderate voices will prevail and hear the voice of the iranian people demanding respect for the human rights, rule of law and dignity. but we praise the leadership of our hr / vp on ensuring an unambiguous and consensual eu response to this situation, to the crackdown. and we call for new sanctions towards particularly those that are responsible by these recent acts.
mr president, the repowereu proposal was presented as favouring the energy transition and the energy independence of the european union in relation to other territories. in fact, apart from the advertising, what we have is a proposal that is very small in terms of resources and funding, which is actually guaranteed by issuing more pollution licences, the first contradiction, and by changing the already weak guarantee that we had approved during the recovery and resilience fund, that it would not cause significant damage, which basically disappears and opens the door, perhaps better said, to the return of fossil and nuclear energy. and so, while the european commission is talking about the magnificent european commitment to combating climate change in egypt, here in brussels we are doing the exact opposite, changing the dependencies and bringing back everything we said we were going to avoid.
madam president, commissioner, repowereu is a key instrument in the immediate mitigation of the effect of the galloping increases in energy prices. we cannot ask citizens to make additional efforts to pay the costs of russia's illegal invasion of ukraine. it is an instrument for building the necessary strategic autonomy of the european union. it is an instrument for speeding up the internal energy market, which will not be achieved without meeting ambitious interconnection targets. for example, investment in energy interconnections between portugal, spain and france is necessary. the final energy deal with the iberian peninsula is urgent. repowereu is an instrument, it has to be an instrument, to accelerate the green transition and energy decarbonisation. it is a tool to support renewable energy. finally, the socially inclusive chapter we have achieved in repowereu will have a significant impact on the lives of citizens and businesses and on preventing and tackling energy poverty.
in writing. the updating of member states' recovery and resilience plans is necessary following the invasion of ukraine by the russian federation, and the resulting energy crisis, which has demonstrated the need to ensure energy independence and significantly increase the use of renewable energy in the european union (eu). the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. in this process, the european union's climate and biodiversity objectives stemming from the european green deal, which coincide in every way with the eu's need for energy independence, should not be forgotten. it will also be important to ensure, as far as possible, respect for the principle of 'do no significant harm', especially in the choice of projects to be funded in the future, with a clear priority to be given to renewable energy projects rather than fossil fuel-based ones. the latest un emissions report worryingly acknowledges that we are not on track to meet the goals of the paris agreement, and national commitments to reduce emissions and avoid fossil fuel infrastructure should be increased.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. madam president, unlike many, we believe that profitable private investment is key to funding the climate transition we need and to which we are committed. and to do that, we need capital markets and investors large and small to channel their resources to sustainable investments and to promote economic growth that respects the planet. but for that to happen, investors need more transparency about companies, allowing them to know the impact of the company's activity on the planet, but also the impacts of climate change on their bottom line. transparency and sustainability are the two key words. and this is a transformative vision where large companies are not just reporting their financial results, but they're also reporting their environmental, social and governance results. this legislative change represents a new paradigm in corporate accountability and, while enhanced reporting on sustainability may not be enough on its own, it is an important incentive for more sustainable corporate decision-making and governance.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, dora is an important initiative to strengthen the resilience of financial institutions to cyber attacks and, although not as ambitious as we would like, particularly in terms of the financial institutions' reporting obligations to regulators, it is a step in the right direction, in terms of making the most of public regulation of the financial sector to protect the financial sector itself and citizens, who are the first victims of the collapse of the financial system. it is an initiative which unfortunately goes against the general trend towards deregulation of the financial system, which is a real risk for financial institutions, for the states and for taxpayers. it should be stressed that the financial collapses of recent years had nothing to do with cyberattacks, they had to do with the management of banks and the policy of financial deregulation. and we should have learned those lessons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ever since the well-known trans law in spain came to light, alarms have been raised for caution. i therefore ask you to listen to associations, the medical sector, parents and penitent people who warn us of the dangers of certain practices. it wants to ban mental health professionals from intervening in the so-called gender self-determination process in minors, leaving children in the lurch of doubting who they are and whether they want to initiate a transition to gender change, which involves irreversible treatments and lifelong medication. a teenager is developing, at a time sometimes delicate, and from social networks, the media, their schools and institutions are intended to convince him that turning to transsexuality can be the solution to all his problems, when in reality he may be suffering from other disorders such as depression, asperger's syndrome or anorexia, which need a concrete diagnosis and a support that in spain wants to ban. we teach children to love themselves and to recognize themselves in their natural being.
mr president, another conference and the prospects for a serious and effective fight against climate change are not encouraging. the conclusions of successive cop have served to perpetuate injustices. while some continue to suffer, others continue to see business opportunities and negotiate mechanisms to protect their interests, even if it is at the expense of the future of humanity. they want to make us believe what no one believes anymore: that the solutions are financial and market solutions; that the solutions can be left to the goodwill or charity of developed countries or, worse, of financial corporations. how can they discuss reducing emissions, an energy transition or stopping the destruction of ecosystems without getting to the bottom of the matter? let's get serious about this. the alternative is to advocate another system that rationalizes the use of means and resources so that they are put at the service of society. with the people's struggle, we believe that day will come. we hope sooner rather than later. capitalism is not green.
in writing. the word is ugly, mean and unpleasant when it is spoken. i still think that my group's use of the word 'disgusting' was a good choice. because when i talk about racism, that's one of the first words that comes to mind: disgusting. and this is a moment when we should reflect on what is happening around us: on what we read, see and hear, for example, about migrants and refugees, especially when they are not white. what it means to hear the prime minister of an eu country criticize the 'mixing' of european and non-european races. what it means for a far-right member of the french national assembly to shout 'back to africa' when another black member was speaking. my position is that racism is absolutely repugnant and must be tolerated at zero in this european parliament.
madam president, commissioner, the regulation is adopted in the council without orbán's vote. it has not supported the rule of law conditionality and is doing everything it can to block, delay the application of this mechanism. the european commission, commissioner, is the guardian of the treaties. i am well aware of your longstanding commitment to respect and uphold the rule of law. i heard the commission explain the steps it is taking, the timetable, the 17 measures. the question is, will they be effective? commissioner, we must be consistent. we cannot be swayed by a different packaging for the same product.
in writing. on 14 november, world diabetes day was celebrated under the theme 'education to protect tomorrow'. in europe, it is estimated that 1 in 3 people with diabetes will not be diagnosed, and the prevalence of this disease continues to increase. diabetes has a very significant impact on people's lives and, if not properly monitored and pharmacologically controlled, can lead to blindness, limb amputation, and kidney failure, among other comorbidities. it's currently the leading preventable cause of these disabling complications. the european union has an added moral obligation in defining public health policies for prevention, but also for disease management. effective treatment requires access to insulin and other oral medicines used to manage type 2 diabetes and prevent complications, as well as relevant lifestyle interventions, health education, self-management of therapy, and access to devices and technologies. these are measures which bring very significant benefits to the health of citizens.
in writing. the world never ceases to amaze us. to the surprise of witnessing 12 years ago the choice of qatar to host the 2022 fifa world cup, we can add the strangeness of the fact that this championship is being held in winter for the first time. it's winter in qatar, too, even though it's over 100 degrees every day. because of these temperatures, there are outdoor stadiums with air conditioning at a time when the world is grappling with a tremendous energy crisis. it turns out there are much worse: suspicions of bribery and corruption considered credible in the selection of fifa, thousands of migrant workers killed, obscene working conditions, discrimination of various types and with various addressees. let it serve as an example for future choices. i think that the european citizens will not accept something like that again. let the eu countries be the first to set an example.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr josé manuel fernandes, mr valérie hayer, mr commissioner, three or four years ago no one could have imagined that we would be here today taking stock of the european commission's strategy for issuing debt to gradually build up nextgenerationeu. and anyone who proposed debt before was considered a utopian or a utopia. but i would like to congratulate the commission on the success it has had in successive issues. success also in the promotion of green bonds. and this is a good indication of the credibility of the european union in the financial markets, which goes far beyond the sum of the credibility of the ratings of the 27 member states. we must do everything we can to make nextgenerationeu - an ambitious, collective and democratic european response - a success so that it can also have other flights in the future. the european commission is already proposing to use this mechanism for eu funding to ukraine. the answer is possible because the instrument exists. but we need to move from ad hoc solutions to more structural instruments: to provide the union with a permanent instrument that enables it to react quickly and effectively to new challenges.
madam president, it is a savagery and a provocation to evict a low-income pensioner from her home in athens over a debt of 15,000 euros. it exposes the lies of the new republic government that there are no first home auctions, while it bids in bold words for the vulnerable as it together with the european union and the european central bank are implementing their goal of 40,000 auctions by the end of the year. the legislative framework voted by syriza and implemented by new democracy is handing over the people's houses to banks and patsy-type crows, evicting people's families or turning them into householders in their own homes. the decisive response of thousands of workers today prevented the eviction and effectively criminalized the mobilization against the auctions put on by the syriza government. the people's houses are saved by the people. now a wall of protection in the common housing against blackmail and auctions. to abolish the legislative framework that groups grab the labor of the people, to stop the persecution of activists for participating in mobilizations against auctions.
madam president, we are witnessing massive destruction of critical infrastructure in ukraine. and we're voting this week on whether russia is a terrorist state. i ask: what is the difference between a russian soldier who shoots, murders innocent ukrainian civilians, what is the difference between a russian soldier who leads a woman bound to be shot in the backyard of her house, what is the difference between a russian soldier and a terrorist if they kidnap ukrainian children, if we find mass graves? we are witnessing today massive destruction of critical infrastructure in ukraine. what did the ukrainians do to the russians that's so terrible that they're destroying their homes, their power plants? they are certainly hungry, cold, and lack energy. but they are steadfast in their belief that they will win. and we must tell the russians that no crime goes unpunished, that reparations are necessary, and that every terrorist will undoubtedly be prosecuted for decades.
madam president, last week the conference of the european union's outermost regions took place at the european parliament in brussels, where the canary islands received the presidency's witness for the year 2023. and the conference has two fundamental objectives. the first is to coordinate the action of the island and outlying regions themselves in defence of their interests. but the second is to ensure that the european response is strengthened, while respecting the specific features enshrined in article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission. the canary islands are a candidate to host the european tourism agency and this is the first time that a european agency could be based in an outermost region with the unanimous support of the outermost regions themselves. we hope that the commission will adopt the initiative as soon as possible and that the canary islands will succeed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to the latest episode of the migration crisis that is shaking our continent: the ship, the ocean viking, has run aground off the french coast with 234 illegal migrants on board. we're hearing tonight that over 95% of them have vanished. long sos méditerranée masks behind a humanitarian principle, rescue at sea, in reality a political operation to put pressure on the states and accelerate the reception of migrants on the european continent. a policy that is also very close to your heart. these increasingly numerous and brazen interventions by ngos encourage migrants to embark on the routes of immigration, and speed up and facilitate the business of mafia smugglers. africa has a population of 1.2 billion people. by 2050, this figure will at least double. even in the face of this figure, the reality and the opposition of the peoples of europe, your disastrous pact on immigration and asylum will continue to encourage and facilitate these migrations. for you, immigration is not a problem, it is a project. here in the european parliament, alongside jordan bardella and marine le pen, we will continue to oppose and expose your sinister intentions.
madam president, in recent weeks we have seen a number of struggles by workers across europe demanding better wages, defending and winning more rights and urgently demanding price control measures in belgium, greece, switzerland, cyprus, the united kingdom, france, spain and elsewhere. and also in portugal, following the large demonstrations on 15 october against the rising cost of living. last november 18th, the huge participation in the national strike of the public administration workers had a great impact on the general public services. these are workers who refuse to be impoverished by work and demand solutions to end the devaluation of their wages and careers. we hereby support the just demands of the workers and express our solidarity with their class unions. we join their voice in demanding other policies which advocate better working and living conditions. the fight continues.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on legal affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on improving the representation of women in boards of listed companies and related measures (10521/1/2022 - c9-0354/2022 - 2012/0299 ((cod)) (rapporteurs: lara wolters and evelyn regner) (a9-0275/2022).
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thank you, lara, for the great cooperation. this directive is obsolete. this directive that is coming now is the teamwork of many great people, especially women, of course, across party lines, across institutional lines and - we can of course also say this - across legislative periods. if it's about creating more equality, i would say, more normality, which is what we want to see in business, then obviously we need to take a very long breath, because it's always about power. for ten years we in the european parliament have kept the dossier alive. for ten years, as rapporteur, i have been fighting from the beginning, together with many others in this room and beyond, to finally abolish the male quota in supervisory boards. and now we've finally made it. this directive on more women in management positions means that qualifications are finally given top priority in supervisory boards and management boards. the targets are to be met by june 30, 2026, and with that, we will finally be able to better map society, create diversity, improve the corporate culture for everyone from the top down. the directive focuses on the procedure for the selection of members of the supervisory board and also of the management board. if the selection procedure is flawed, the best qualified candidates often do not even make it to the final round, to the detriment of both the company and the candidates. the directive therefore emphasizes transparency and efficiency in the selection process. especially when it's tough economically -- with the pandemic, with putin's aggression in ukraine, with inflation and the climate crisis -- we need resilient, strong companies in the european union, and we're only going to get there if those companies finally get women on board and driving. if we harness the full potential of smart minds and create transparent procurement processes, then of course, at the end of the day, the companies themselves benefit. because they get the best qualified people. that's what this is about. and those companies that meet the targets will also be put on a "faming" list, as a positive example for everyone. but we also know that without binding measures nothing will happen. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the individual quantitative targets for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. this can be a fine, a revocation of the election as well as restrictions on public procurement depending on what works best where. of course, this also includes transparently reporting what the figures are, taking good action and having an authority check this too. we have also included this in this directive. the understanding of the directive is clear: more women in decision-making positions - this is just one of many measures that must be taken to achieve gender equality in the workplace. nevertheless, it is an important part, an important component of this mosaic. it is high time for positive change, for modern enterprises and, above all, for equality for women in all areas of the economy. that is why we, as a team in the european parliament, are more than proud that we have finally achieved this after ten years. and so, really, my big thanks to all these wonderful shadow reporters, to this great team that just stuck together in this regard. i would like to thank commissioner helena dalli for her incredibly convincing report. i would also like to thank the representatives of several presidencies - the french presidency before, the czech one now, of course, and the luxembourg and maltese ones in the past. i say this especially now because we've really had to stick together here over so much time. and it turns out, it pays off. so a big day, i guess, for all of us.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you, lara wolters, and thank you, evelyn regner. you really captured the spirit of this legislation this morning when you say that the girls cannot be what they cannot see. and it’s exactly that. after ten years of negotiations, the directive on gender balance on corporate boards is finally becoming european law. with the adoption of the directive, we will empower women to reach their full potential, move to a new chapter of eu gender equality policy, and, again, girls will now start trying to be what they can see. so we will turn that that statement over its head, hopefully with this. europe has many, as we’ve heard, qualified women, as 60 % of current university graduates are female. nevertheless, this investment in women’s education and training is not mirrored in the positions they hold in decision-making, as women are still underrepresented in high positions, including, of course, on corporate boards. this is a clear waste of human capital. we have made progress in the past, but not fast enough. and, as we know, not everywhere in the european union. the gender equality index, published every year by the european institute for gender equality, shows that at a time at the time of the proposal, women represented only 12 % of board members across the eu, compared to 31.6 % today. and the share of women in business management across the eu at the national level ranges from 8 % to 46 %. so data also shows that member states which introduce binding measures, like gender equality targets, made the biggest progress. while the advancement triggered by voluntary initiatives was much slower and less sustainable. so when self-regulation does not bring the desired effect, eu regulatory action is necessary. and this is precisely why this directive is so urgently needed. so the directive addresses the lack of transparency in the selection process and the lack of objective qualification criteria which constitute the main obstacle to achieving gender-balanced representation. in this way, the directive ensures that the selection of board members is gender neutral and merit based. the directive should not be seen as a burden on companies but as a tool to bring concrete benefits to european and national economies. evidence shows that a broad range of talents and skills and an inclusive and diverse approach in the boardroom contribute to better decisions and corporate governance, increase public trust in business and drive economic growth. and this is particularly important in the current turbulent economic situation. we need all hands on deck to recover and reboost our economies and achieve a union of equality. thank you for your hard work.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are making history by making the women on boards directive a reality, after a decade of insistence from the european parliament. we sent a message to the future. a message to men and women, because the goal is to protect the most underrepresented gender. but a message, we know well, aimed primarily at young women. to these we say: believe me, your talent, your commitment, will be the deciding factors in your rise to the top. in large companies, which is what is now at stake, and in all other dimensions of society. today, women represent some 60% of new higher education graduates in the european union, half of the workforce, but only 31.5% of board members and 8% of chairpersons. when they say that this directive must ensure respect for merit, i say: i agree. that is precisely the ambition of the directive. and this is a step that will benefit all europeans, because we cannot waste talent. we need the best, men and women, in decision-making positions. thank you very much to all those who have not given up over the last ten years, and a very special word of thanks to the initiator of the process, viviane reding, then vice-president of the commission.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 40% of non-executive posts, 33% if we include executives. what's there to celebrate? the presence of women certainly enriches and improves the results. we celebrate female talent, pride in our nature and the nuances we can bring to decision-making. but this directive even puts a limit on the presence of women. to present ourselves as helpless and naturally disadvantaged does not help if what we want is to show the value of women. freedom of enterprise is under attack. it is up to an organisation to decide on the composition of its board. it is a political interference in companies, with a regulation which should be legal and commercial, in accordance with national, not european, legislation. quotas are a drastic, discriminatory and unfair system. the never-ending story. now by sex, well, no, by gender. but it could also be because of race or ethnicity. it's disrespectful to look at people's characteristics and not at people. it is our training or abilities or experience that should determine us. collectivization makes us one more of a group. it takes away our names and surnames, confronts us and accentuates prejudice. it turns just causes into power struggles. let us restore hope and harmony to this world. measures like this only increase the cramping.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. equality is an endless story, unfortunately. twelve years ago, our former epp commissioner viviane reding launched the women on board directive, and thus laid the foundations for legislation on gender equality in business in many member states. equal rights for men and women are still not a given today. there are still more men than women on the boards, and if you look at the boardroom floor, there is very little air, there is very little control over the number of women on the board. quotas are a door opener. i think they make sense in breaking down long-standing, decades-old structures, and that is why it is good that we are finally adopting this directive today. but what is important, besides the quotas, is that there is the right mindset in the companies. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which i am sure will be of great help to the commission. let me also point out that i am deeply convinced that if we have a balanced representation of women and men in management positions in companies, this will also be a win for many companies: many studies suggest that a significant representation of women in management positions can also be a success factor for company sales, profits. i am glad that this directive is being adopted today.
madam president, five plus five: it has been ten years since we had to wait for an agreement to improve the balance between men and women on the boards of publicly traded companies. how many more must we wait for this balance to become a reality, not just in publicly traded companies but in all of them, as something natural, effortless, part of life on a planet where men and women share equally? women account for 60% of new higher education graduates in the european union, but only 8% of board presidents are women. this was a great moment for all of us and a struggle that the socialists, in particular, did not let die. a special thanks to colleagues evelyn regner and lara wolters. we should be proud of this step, but we cannot ignore the feeling that we are always running late, always chasing the problem and never in time to avoid it.
mr president, can we create the ideal world with laws and regulations? many meps seem to think so. the european union wants to take the world into its own hands through legislation and regulation, through anti-money laundering legislation, sustainability rules such as the csddd and gender provisions. to make the world your oyster with a deluge of laws and regulations is impossible and dangerous. everyone knows that as politics becomes more involved in business, the boundaries between the public and the private sector are blurred. more red tape. more management and control. less freedom. less wealth. an irreversible process that leads to impoverishment. can we create an ideal world with laws and regulations? seneca said no. he said: the road to regulations is long, the road to examples is short and focused. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted)
blue card reply. i'm here to stop the glut of legislation and regulation among other things. i know from good examples in the united states, for example, that it is very possible to achieve your goals without a plethora of laws and regulations, but that requires innovation. i'm for a world that's safe. i am against human trafficking, i am against forced labor and i am a great supporter of human rights. but i'm not a believer in rules and regulations.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, it is a sad fact that only 30.6 % of board members in our largest companies are women, knowing that girls do better in schools than boys and knowing that in the european union 60 % of new graduates from universities are women. many studies show that gender quotas are the most effective instrument for increasing women’s presence on company boards. voluntary regulations without sanctions does not work. therefore we socialists and democrats are pleased that we finally, after 10 years, adopted this women on boards directive. this directive will improve gender equality by ensuring that at least 40 % of non-executive director posts or 30 % of all director posts are occupied by the underrepresented sex and this by 2026 through transparent, clear and neutral appointment criteria. this directive also rightly foresees dissuasive penalties for non-compliance and it’s a great success for us socialists and democrats. our fight against gender inequalities can no longer wait and it will go on. i call on more men, i call on all men to speak up for gender equality and fight the patriarchal model that subsists in our society. gender equality is a recipe for prosperity. this directive is not only good for women, it is good for the progress, the sustainability and the success of our european companies and economy.
madam president, this directive has been blocked for ten years and during these ten years, seven out of ten board members of listed companies have been men and less than one in ten of the large companies in the european union have had a female president or chief executive officer. the directive was therefore absolutely necessary and urgently needed to strike a balance in these boards of directors of listed companies, where the majority of the positions are held by men, not because they are the best, but because in the selection process gender has been a criterion and women have been discriminated against. so today we also send a message of hope to the young women who are in universities, in colleges. from now on, this directive ensures a fair and transparent selection process, with criteria based on neutrality, where gender is not going to be a discriminatory element. from now on, at least 40% will be women, but there may be more because there will be capacity criteria. just tell them that ten years show the difficulties in making progress on equality. and i think today is also a time to thank all the women in this house, from all the political groups, who have kept the flame and the strength going for this great day to come.
blue-card speech. – dear colleague, you said the ‘numbers are important’. so since you consider gender something as the same importance as sex, i suppose that you think that also certain numbers of lgbtq people should be ceos there. and also, since we don’t want to be racist, also certain numbers of different skin colours should be in these committees. so my question is: do you intend to implement quotas also and to impose quotas to firms concerning lgbtq and races?
madam president, coming from the financial sector, one of the companies i worked for was looking for a female director. and after a long and proactive recruitment procedure they couldn’t find a candidate. and it wasn’t just the board. the company proactively recruited women. still, men remained overrepresented. more than three quarters of companies in the financial sector are actively trying to attract female talent. but 64% of them do not see any progress in the number of female applicants. when we compare this to other sectors, for example medicine, we see women on the rise without quotas. in the netherlands, approximately 66% of all doctors and 55% of specialist doctors will soon be women. women achieve excellence in their chosen careers. we should recognise that there are gender-specific preferences to specific types of work. let us give individuals and businesses the freedom to decide what they want and what works best for themselves. (the speaker agreed to respond to two blue-card speeches)
blue-card speech. – you mentioned those enterprises who would like to have more women there in top positions. when you talked to those, i mean guys leading the enterprises, did you raise also the question of the culture of how the enterprises are led? i had talks with many of those in top positions and then got information: it’s about the culture, it’s about how the atmosphere is on boards and that many top women, meanwhile, already say, i expect that there is a change, that there is respect, there is another form of treat, how to treat each other concerning working hours and everything else. so did you take that on board with these considerations you just mentioned?
blue-card reply. – thank you for these questions, and i will try to answer them and i will try to condense them into one answer. the example i gave on medicine, i think it clearly shows that it is possible for women to choose a career and to make a career in a specific type of environment they would like to seek to make their career. but if you look at quotas, if you look at the rationale or the ideas behind quotas, it says we need more female ideas because women bring other ideas. but then the question i’m asking is: what are female ideas? isn’t this a very contradicting way? and isn’t this a very contradicting thing to say? i mean, i’m all for diversity of ideas, but that should be based on character, not on sex, race or ethnicity. so i think that’s the bottom line.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking a huge step forward for gender equality, for women's rights. this is a significant moment, important of course for us, but it is important above all, i believe, for future generations. and we are making this very important step forward - let me say this - thanks to the tenacity of this parliament, thanks to the tenacity of the commissioner, thanks to the colleagues who have worked tirelessly on this directive - i am looking at evelyn - because for ten years some governments have held us absolutely hostage, have been short-sighted in the face of progress, in the face of truth, in the face of justice, have blocked common sense rules that they had and that have the ambition simply to correct a distortion of reality that is the child of stereotypes and an unacceptable patriarchal culture. we are therefore taking a partial step forward, madam president, and i conclude in an area which is crucial for the future of all women.
madam president, commissioner, this is a landmark directive and it’s very welcome. and as we’ve heard many times, there is vast research and evidence which demonstrates the economic value of increasing representation on boards. in ireland we have made great progress over the last very short period of time. irish plcs already have 32% female representation on boards. ireland also leads the way with women in top jobs. a survey of 24 countries showed that ireland actually leads these countries – including the uk, the us, canada, australia and singapore. and perhaps it’s no coincidence, despite the dire warnings we’ve heard about the performance of the economy, that ireland is the leading economy in the european union over the last couple of years. and i wanted to pay tribute to the rapporteurs and everybody that has been involved in this, but also to renew europe, because it was a renew europe priority for this parliamentary term. i want to pay tribute to my colleagues, samira rafaela and to karen melchior. and before i finish, i want to say we should focus as well on representation in politics. it’s important that we do this in economics, but some of the most important boards in the world are governments. and just look at the last g20, where there were just two female leaders present among the 20.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i find it inexplicable what you say here, and i ask you: have you ever read an anthropological study in your life? do you know what innate qualities women have? do you think that if you put this quota, you don't take into account the criteria of quality, of competence? or what did you think? mathematically, there are 60 percent of college graduates, it's clear that there can't be just eight percent on the board. so we lose competence.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is tragic that the eu now believes that people should be judged by their gender and not their skills. i am ashamed that it was the swedish social democrats who opened the door to this madness, that it was the swedish social democrats who in 2017 opened the door for the eu to legislate on quotas in company boards and for the eu to have control over salaries. but believe me, there are many more votes than the social democrats. i am one of them, and we are strongly against this. once and for all, quotas are discriminatory. it is not when we allocate quotas by gender, skin colour or sexual orientation that society develops, but when we take advantage of people's skills and experience. i, as a lgbtq person, would never want to be chosen for something just because i'm in love or have a boyfriend, but i would want to do it just because i'm good at the job. (the speaker agreed to reply to three 'blue cards')
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. mr president, from what you have just said, i think you have not read the document we are discussing or understood it at all. you say that 40% would be the percentage, that it would be discrimination for the population, which is over 50%. well, where's the discrimination? that's the problem. secondly, how do you see the problem of having women on boards who are competent being solved - that it does not exclude competence on boards? we don't play, we don't lift weights, we don't lift sacks and we don't do physical work, but we think. and if we have 60 percent educated, college-educated women, don't you think that's a loss of competence in these boards?
blue-card reply. – the whole debate about having to quota people in is not doing anyone a favour who will be quota—ed in. because the problem is that if someone gets quota—ed in for a position – and it doesn’t matter what kind of thing they are being quota—ed in for – the other people around will think they are there because of the quota, not because of the competence. that’s the biggest problem. i know from my class when i was studying, from my university classes, that it was over—represented with women, and i can see that many of them now have good positions. it takes time for this to happen, and i believe that it’s going to go through and also that if you have two people and they have the same competence you will choose the person who is right. i believe that is true and it’s going to be more and more that women will be over—represented in many areas, like my colleague said, in the public sector. it will be like that.
madam president, in this system we live in, women have a harder time getting into positions of power. women and their rights continue to be very uncomfortable for the backward and conservative political forces. we believe that despite this directive, inequalities will continue to be a reality in the lives of most women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to maternity and pregnancy is guaranteed, and that the right to breastfeeding and breastfeeding leave is systematically denied to working mothers. or the precariousness of work and the deregulation of working hours, which makes it impossible to balance work, family and personal life. discrimination and stereotypes contribute to perpetuating inequalities, including in access to training and professional promotion in leadership and top positions in economic and political life. any measure that reverses that path will always be good news.
madam president, i would like to remind you at the end of this debate that we have 60% women in our medical schools, we have a majority of female doctors, and we have only 8% of female chairmen of boards. something's not working right. we have already seen that, in terms of political participation, quotas have been decisive and there are now many more women in politics than there were before the adoption of quotas. that is why this directive is necessary. that is why it is essential that we adopt this directive after ten years. and i leave a word of appreciation to our colleagues laura wolters and evelyn regner. to my colleague evelyn, who has been fighting for this directive for ten years. but i would also like to recall the role of viviane reding, then european commissioner, who first put forward this proposal, which unfortunately took ten years to vote. but i hope that now, finally, it can come into force to restore equality.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it’s my pleasure to attend today the european parliament’s debate on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2023. i would like to express the council’s satisfaction that we were able to reach an agreement in the conciliation committee in the very last minutes of 14 november, the last day of the conciliation period, after long and intense discussions. the positive outcome of the negotiations shows that our three institutions can work efficiently in a spirit of good cooperation. together, we negotiated a budget for 2023, which responds to the concerns of today and to the requirements of tomorrow of european citizens. the european parliament and the council have worked hard to find a solution that would equip the union for the challenges of the third year of the multiannual financial framework. the deal we have reached reflects our common priorities, in particular addressing the consequences of the war in ukraine, the severe energy crisis combined with the historically high level of inflation, the disruption of global supply lines and the enduring post-pandemic recovery, all in addition to fighting climate change and fostering the eu’s green and digital transition. i will not hide from you that the council would have preferred more flexibility in the budget to allow the union to promptly react to unexpected events that we may face in these unpredictable times. in the official meetings in the course of the year, as well as during informal contacts, the council appreciated very much the positive atmosphere that prevailed in these talks. both sides of the table were ready to engage constructively to reach an agreement, to reframe the discussion around the shared interests and come up with solutions. i am glad to inform you that after the successful outcome of the conciliation committee on 14 november, the joint text was formally approved by the council earlier today by a qualified majority. the council expects the european parliament to also approve the joint text tomorrow. the general budget for the financial year 2023 will then be adopted within the deadlines foreseen by the treaty. coming to the end of my intervention. i would like to thank the chairman of the european parliament’s committee on budgets, johan van overtveldt, and the rapporteurs, nicolae ștefănuță and niclas herbst, for the good cooperation during the last weeks and months. i would also like to extend my special thanks to you, commissioner hahn, for the way you facilitated the negotiations.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear minister, honourable members and, in particular, dear rapporteurs, of course i welcome the agreement on the european union annual budget 2023 reached by the conciliation committee on monday 14 november, as usual just before midnight. this is not really unexpected, but let me also say, for the protocol, that i very much welcome the fact that we have this debate at a very prominent time. but i have to say that it’s for the second time in a row that i am missing a college meeting, because nowadays parliament is debating at the time when the college meeting is taking place, and i think that’s something i would really like to reconsider for the future anyway. i think the fact that we got an agreement is our shared success. this was already expressed by the previous speakers. in such unprecedented times, it was more than ever important to put aside our differences and to work together on reaching our shared goals and priorities. the initial positions were, like always, quite far apart – a couple of billion euros – but finally it was possible to reconcile them. i appreciate that all parties acted responsibly and made the necessary compromises in order to have finally a solid agreement on time. i would like to thank the european parliament, especially the committee on budgets and all the specialised committees, for the intensive work on the commission’s proposal for the draft budget 2023. this is a half—year work which starts usually in early july. on behalf of the commission, i really would like to thank, in particular, the chair, mr van overtveldt, and the two rapporteurs, mr ştefănuță and mr herbst, for their cooperation. i would also like to thank the czech presidency – and please convey thanks to the minister georgiev for his constructive approach during these negotiations. it also shows that the institutions can work towards a compromise for the benefit of the european union and its citizens. for this, again, congratulations to the negotiators and the teams. i would also like to include in this my own team, because they have done a great job. for johan ureel, who is with me today, this will be his final budget. he was our ‘mr budget’. he made seven annual budgets and before that he was in charge of the mff for 14 years. so johan, thank you very much for your impressive job. let me now give you a few details on the agreement. the overall level of commitment appropriations in next year’s budget is set at eur 186.6 billion. the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2023 budget is set at eur 168.7 billion. the rapporteurs have already explained the reinforcements for parliament’s priorities, with emphasis on ukraine, moldova, tackling the energy crisis, building solidarity lanes, strengthening erasmus+, life, smes, eu4health, creative europe, rights and values programmes, as well as the european solidarity corps, reinforcing migration funds, providing funds for military mobility, supporting the eastern and southern neighbourhood, the key global europe programme and strengthening the asylum agency and eu—lisa – just to list a few agreed reinforcements. but the annual budget also includes a package of 39 pilot projects and preparatory actions for a total amount of eur 80.1 billion as proposed by parliament. once adopted, the annual budget 2023 would allow the union to mobilise significant funds to help mitigate the severe consequences of russia’s war of aggression against ukraine, not only in the country but also in the member states and in the neighbourhood. it would also support the ongoing sustainable recovery from the coronavirus pandemic by maintaining and creating jobs. it would trigger further investments into a greener, more digital and more resilient europe while protecting the most vulnerable in the european union, its neighbourhood and around the world. next year’s budget will direct funds to where they can make the greatest difference, in line with the most crucial needs of the member states and the union’s partners around the world. looking forward, let me recall that we are almost halfway through the long—term budget. with the numerous unprecedented developments and challenges it has become even more clear that we should focus on a limited number of important issues to maximise the effectiveness of our funding, with targeted reinforcements concentrated on a limited number of issues with a real impact. in that respect, i would like to thank the rapporteurs again because there was some progress compared to the previous budget, but i think even more focusing and targeted reinforcements could be possible. i also reiterate my strong plea for all institutions to exercise restraint in administrative expenditure and to keep stable staff numbers in order not to increase the heavy pressure on heading 7. the reality is that we cannot continue adding new posts for institutions and respect the ceiling and sub—ceilings in heading 7. going forward, we will have to face some tough choices between what we would like to do and what we can do. the key word is negative priorities. i can assure you that the commission will focus its future proposal, including the upcoming draft budget 2024, on the most effective and efficient use of our limited resources, to deliver on our citizens expectations and needs.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. budgetary agreements are always good news in these troubled times, with so much uncertainty. this is the wartime budget. the macro-financial assistance does not have direct budgetary implications, but it contains elements of assistance to ukraine, primarily in the neighbourhood policy. it's an inflationary budget, which makes the projects expensive. this is a budget of high interest rates, which increases the cost of running the european recovery instrument. the small margins forced the use of special instruments: the flexibility and single margin instruments. the european parliament increased funding for its priorities by €687 million. our rapporteur, of course, because that is also his, first and foremost, merit nicolae ştefănuţă counts, and rightly so, the commitments. the fact that both sides came out of the negotiations satisfied is a measure of the creativity of the european commission under commissioner hahn. the priorities are very well defined, including the political priorities of my group: horizon here we use article 15 of the financial regulation, connectivity energy and transport, small and medium-sized enterprises, eu health, creative europe, clean energy transition and the eastern partnership. most importantly, in these turbulent times, by providing financial certainty, we have made a modest contribution to reducing the uncertainty and fears about the future that have returned to our continent.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have succeeded, we have saved the european budget for next year from austerity policy and from those who, in the current difficult context, want to jeopardise the european construction with a budget that is less than a living wage. if we want a more united and stronger european union, that provides adequate responses to the war in ukraine and to managing the effects of the pandemic, that truly protects european citizens in the context of runaway inflation and the energy crisis, or that lives up to our common expectations, we need a more ambitious budget. but unfortunately, not all decision-makers understand this. we negotiated until the last minute to protect european programmes and policies that are essential for our citizens in the current context, we managed to get additional funds to combat rising energy prices for the transport sector, for smes, for education, for young people, for the environment or for culture. this budget also provides for additional resources for the republic of moldova and ukraine, as well as for the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia to the schengen area. to ensure the resources needed to implement our common ambitions, i call for a review of the european budget in the long term.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president othmar karas, mr commissioner johannes hahn, mr minister for european affairs czech republic, first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleagues, and first of all nicolae ştefănuţă, for their enormous work and for the ambitious agreement reached on the 2023 budget. i would also like to congratulate niclas herbst on his work on the other sections. it has been said many times, 2023 is going to be another exceptional year for our budget. we will have to face many challenges: consequences of the war in ukraine, consequences of the pandemic, energy and economic crises. that is why we have supported a more ambitious budget, to give us the means to meet these challenges and above all to be at the side of the european citizens most affected. so we have a more ambitious budget for health, for energy, for climate, for defence, for transport, for managing our borders and for helping our ukrainian neighbours. we also need to prepare for climate change, to limit its effects. that is why we voted here in strasbourg for an ambitious climate package. we'll have to find the means. but we have little time left, commissioner, before the end of this multiannual financial contract. we therefore call for an equally ambitious revision. we must rise to the challenge: we must rise to the challenge of the rise of populism in europe, which every day makes the european union its scapegoat and the cause of all ills. we must protect this budget from those populisms which use it for their own purposes, without respecting the rule of law and its fundamental principles. we must, commissioner, apply the principle of conditionality rigorously. this budget has ambition for europe. this project is what makes us stronger together and what makes us up to the challenges.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear all, europe is facing multiple crises with the war in ukraine, the fossil energy dependence, the inflation and the growing climate collapse. that is why it was so vital that we reach an agreement on making the eu more resilient to the challenges we currently face through the eu budget for 2023. and our 2023 budget shows focus: focus on helping people both in european union and in the rest of the world; focus on supporting citizens affected by the economic downturn; focus on restoring nature affected by climate change; and focus on those who are most affected by war. but this focus came with hard work. if we look at the budget proposed by the commission back in june, the parliament achieved quite a lot. we have made substantial reinforcements for the environment and climate, energy and health policies, and we also have strengthened the support for our eastern and southern neighbourhoods, and we also have increased the budget for humanitarian aid. however, we all know that this is not enough. we need to be more active on all of those key areas. therefore, we must push the commission and the council to urgently revise the multiannual framework. the eu budget cannot be pushed to the limit where it won’t serve its purpose. and the overall goal is to speed the eu shift towards a decarbonised economy, builds a fairer society, and continue to be a major player in geopolitical affairs.
mr president, commissioner, yesterday we discussed the strategy for setting up nextgenerationeu. today we are discussing our own resources from the union budget. without new own resources, nextgenerationeu will not be a success. they are essential to ensure the repayment of this common debt and the union's ability to build new similar instruments in the future. there is a binding interinstitutional agreement. we are waiting for the commission's solution to the digital tax and the proposal for the creation of a tax on financial transactions. the council should approve them in the necessary timeframe, already approving the emissions trading scheme and the border carbon adjustment mechanism as new own resources of the european union budget. we will thus be strengthening the architecture of the european union and ensuring that the new priorities and emergency actions of the european union are never financed at the expense of current programmes, european policies or the next generations.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr commissioner, i would like to stress that the european commission's guidelines for the revision of the rules of economic governance, in our view, are in the right direction. they take account of a significant part of the political principles adopted by this parliament. but they need more ambition, and we need to know the details. my question is this: with nextgenerationeu and the recovery and resilience facility, we have reforms, investment and european funding to make these reforms and investment. in the future, when these instruments are exhausted, how will the financing be provided for the investments needed for europe's strategic autonomy, the climate transition, the digital transition, without avoiding the fragmentation of the internal market?
mr president, in the proposal for the revision of the multiannual financial framework, in the own-initiative report which the european parliament has already approved in the committee on budgets, we propose the creation of a fund for the sovereignty, for the strategic sovereignty of the european union, an idea which president ursula von der leyen has already defended here in her speech on the state of the union. i would like to know how open the commission is to supporting the setting up of this fund, which will necessarily be a key instrument for supporting investment in the european union.
the commission is making a move by relaxing certain rules which have clearly proved to be impracticable, and the real result of this new proposal is therefore to speed up and even introduce sanctions, particularly those which are linked to the recommendations under the european semester. in other words, these recommendations will no longer be just recommendations but will become impositions. now, since many of the recommendations that the european commission has made over the years concern the reduction of pension expenditure, the reduction of public service expenditure, the deregulation of the labour market - all of which are the competence of the member states - i would like to know how the european commission reconciles the respect for national competences, which derives from the treaties, with the idea that has been propagated that this new form of economic governance will have greater respect for the democratic choices of national governments.
commissioner, you spoke of the development of the deficit and the debt, which, as we know, depends on the development of expenditure, but also on the development of revenue. and so i would like to understand why the commission chooses to use net primary public expenditure as the only operational variable. because this option has a recessive bias. it was the choice, for example, of the troika programmes, which had disastrous consequences, not only for the growth of the countries concerned but also for the deficit and debt trends. it is also an ideological bias, because it becomes a tool against public services, against public investment, against public policies in general. and i'd like to know the reason for this partial choice.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this opportunity to express its concern about the situation in the region. on the one hand, china's size and the role it has and can have in the world make it important for us to cooperate on common challenges such as the climate crisis, global food security or the promotion of global peace and security. but the repeated violations of human rights in xinjiang, tibet, hong kong and macao must be condemned most vehemently by the european union. the increasing tension over taiwan, which is threatening regional peace and stability, is compounded by the fact that europe cannot tolerate, let alone tolerate, the sanctions imposed on members of this parliament, which are in total disregard of the institution and the principles of the functioning of these democracies. there is a way to gradually improve relations between the european union and china, but it is a narrow way, one that europe is willing to follow, as the high representative has rightly pointed out here. we hope that the chinese authorities will be seriously available for this route as well.
madam president, it is clear that it is important to strengthen our dialogue and engagement with our partners in the middle east. but this engagement and this dialogue cannot be maintained at any price. it must be maintained in full respect for the rule of law, democracy and human rights. only then will there be the dialogue and cooperation that we want. and in this context i would like to express my deep concern about the instability in the region, and in particular the situation in lebanon, which threatens to become another failed state. the european union cannot afford to allow a failed state to develop in yet another country in this region. and because the situation in syria is indeed worrying, increasingly worrying, without a solution being found, i want to say here, commissioner, that the role of the european union cannot be confined solely to the role of humanitarian aid. more must be done, and it must be done now, to put a stop to mr erdogan's purely electoral intervention in northern syria, which risks creating further instability.
madam president, allow me to congratulate my colleague, mr tonino picula, on this report which is so clear in its defence of what is one of the most successful and important instruments of our foreign policy. the political context dictated by the war and the decisions taken this summer on enlargement give this document a special strategic importance. it is up to us now to ensure that the line of success continues, to draw lessons from the less successful steps, because there are others, and to create conditions which will make it possible to avoid frustration and discontent caused by the dragging of the proceedings. it is essential to ensure that effective progress towards accession is made on the basis of merit, reforms implemented, the degree of commitment to eu values and foreign policy alignment demonstrated by each country. but it is also essential that we do our homework here in the european union and that we reform the institutions, the budget and the decision-making mechanisms for accession so that we do not invariably end up being held hostage to the interests of one member state or another.
the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. it is a country under enormous pressure from citizens trying to get to europe. but libya is also a key player in the mediterranean, because of its size, its geographical position, its assets. the report by my colleague giuliano pisapia is therefore entirely timely and relevant. we have worked with the support of the united nations to ensure that the libyan authorities carry out a genuine process of national reconciliation that will bring stability and security. but we can't stop the humanitarian aid. the situation of migrants and refugees arbitrarily detained in libya shocks us, in the name of dignity and respect for human rights. in the 2023 budget we have secured a €70 million boost for the southern partnership and mobility in the region is a priority. the european commission has announced new measures: reform of the asylum and protection system in the european union. these measures, if taken in the right direction, will certainly contribute to the stabilization of the political process in the region and in the country.
mr president, seven years after the tragedy of 2015, and after more than 25 000 lives lost in the mediterranean, we are here once again to discuss the need to implement an effective migration and asylum policy and to create a search and rescue mechanism. it is certainly not by repeating solutions such as enhanced cooperation with libya, a vast area of human rights violations, which is part of the action plan presented two days ago, that we will make any change. we need to develop a sustainable and holistic approach based on the obligatory solidarity between all the member states in sharing their responsibilities in the light of international law, whether in the matter of rescue or in the matter of international protection. and let 's not be naive . the european union is committed to the implementation of the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. not with the solutions we're proposing today.
madam president, commissioner, members of the council, let me start by thanking epp colleagues for raising this important point. it has got the attention from the parliament for months now, demanding concrete action. and also let me also kindly thank epp for the free publicity for our s&d ‘bring the bills down’ plan. by the way, since we are talking about it, you could even consult bringthebillsdown.eu, which is the website of our campaign with our proposals – i would say commissioner-friendly, it could even inspire you, i hope. and commissioner, i say so because we are waiting for concrete action for too long; concrete results are not to be seen yet. finally, the commission proposed a long-awaited price cap. we recognise it is a step in the right direction for the sheer fact that we have a proposal, but we need it to be fine-tuned and i would say quite a bit. experts are telling us that the chances for this price cap proposal to be triggered anytime are almost the same of a tree being hit by a lightning bolt in the middle of the ocean. and the speculation on the ttf market is not even addressed, commissioner. and the decoupling of gas and electricity prices is also not to be found yet. in the iberian peninsula, as you well know, it is already saving around 15% on electric electricity prices to consumers. what are we waiting for in the rest of europe? commissioner, being this a debate on keeping the bills down, i would say that the commission is still missing a central piece of action. we need direct support to the families most affected by energy poverty. the s&d leader will present a long-awaited plan before the next council – a proposal for a fund of eur 100 billion to support european families for the winter. a true winter solidarity package. we can do it with the resources we have and the proceeds of a strong windfall-profits tax. we can do it. it’s just fair that we do it.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! any form of violence is a crime. whether it's physical violence, whether it's psychological violence, whether it's sexual abuse, whether it's economic violence, or the violence that we experience most often, cyberbullying. forced marriage of young girls in the european union is still the norm. since the last debate last year, commissioner, has anything been done about this? turns out not. it happens. we're not even protecting little girls. have we made significant progress in banning the forced female genital mutilation? i'm not either. apart from the lofty slogans and loud declarations, there is little going on. in the meantime, i would like to say that this discussion should be a form of exchange of good practice. well, i want to tell you that in poland, which you are so interested in, there is an obligation to immediately separate the victim from the perpetrator. i think this is the polish solution, it should be applied in every member state.
madam president, there are many forms of violence against women and girls, and there is too little being done to stop it. one cruel form of violence is to deny a woman the right to decide freely over our bodies and our sexuality. forced pregnancies and a lack of access to abortion care are still a reality in europe in 2022. we have countries here like poland, where we have an abortion ban and where women can die even when they are in hospital, like izabela sajbor. and we have malta, which also has a total abortion ban. and in both countries, of course, those who help women to get access, to get the right to decide over their bodies, those people that help, they are persecuted and criminalised. shame on you! shame on you, patriarchal, inhuman politicians that persecute those who help. it is time to step up our action. it is time to end forced pregnancies. every woman in europe and beyond, of course, must have the right to decide over her body, over her sexuality. it is time for every woman to have the right to free and legal abortion care.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, every six hours a woman is murdered in europe, and this is often at the hands of her partner. this phenomenon, which is not going away, has been dealt with by insufficient judicial repressive measures. according to who, many perpetrators of these crimes are sick people with narcissistic personality disorder and often themselves victims of childhood abuse. the commission will put forward a plan containing targets for reducing gender-based violence. we need research into this disease and appropriate treatment for a problem that is also a health problem. victims must be helped with safety measures, psychotherapeutic support and be able to leave home without losing custody of their children. they need to be able to recognize the pathology of the partner, the toxicity of that relationship, and the signs of violent escalation. we help women to fight the mechanisms of manipulation and to be aware that the causes of violence lie in the personality of the partner and not in themselves.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has just been pointed out that: every six hours in europe, a woman is a victim of violence. one woman every six hours. these numbers, these stories speak to each of us because each of us, directly or indirectly, has experienced this violence. but what we have to remember here is that this is not a natural tragedy, this is not a flood, this is not an earthquake, this is not something that happens regardless of our will: women are killed and they are killed because there are criminals who kill them. but this crime we must remember, even here, once again, has something special: the victims are all women, and the killers are all men. and so these violent men must be stopped, of course, also with help, and we ask this house once again to help the men who are not violent. the root of this violence that feeds it must be stopped and it has a precise name: it's called patriarchy. and so the wounds, the tears of our sisters that we have brought here, in this house, through our speeches, through our daily work, must be a warning, must be a warning not to let our guard down. we will continue to do so all together, all together, because there will be no just and fair europe until violence is eradicated.
madam president, it is imperative that we combat all forms of violence against women. there can be no more excuses. every day, and all over the world, millions of women and girls are subjected to some form of abuse and violence - physical, psychological, moral or sexual - at home, at work, in public. human trafficking and prostitution continue to reach alarming levels in this european union. other economic and social policies, quality public services and effective measures to tackle the problems of poverty and social exclusion are needed. the fight against violence against women requires the adoption of measures to give women effective autonomy and empowerment and is therefore inseparable from improving working and living conditions. we reaffirm our commitment to not give up one millimetre in the fight for women's rights, in the fight for equality between women and men, in the world of work, in society, in the daily fight against all forms of violence and discrimination against women. there can be no more excuses.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, we are ready today to discuss urgently the financial support package for ukraine as early as 2023, one month from the beginning of the year... the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: this package is an amendment to the mff regulation! decision requiring unanimity in the council and the approval of the european parliament. which is the proven proof of the saying "if there is a will there is a way". it is this amendment to the mff regulation that will allow the commission to lend to ukraine, also through a new macro-financial assistance agreement, the mfa plus, eur 18 billion in 2023. in the same way as it already lends to the member states of the european union. and this is only possible because we have broken the taboo and created an instrument, the nextgenerationeu fund, anchored in the eu budget. with this new mfa plus, we remain fully committed to ukraine's long-term stability, including financial stability. this mfa plus will allow the continuation of public services and help with reconstruction and infrastructure projects, but it also serves to boost democratic reforms. it is therefore essential to ensure democratic control by the european parliament. finally, commissioner, let me conclude by saying that this amendment to the mff underlines, more than ever, the obvious need for a revision of mff 21-27 as early as next year. we need a revised, stronger, more flexible budget for the european union and we need a permanent instrument to enable us to respond to crises, as we are doing now. and we can do that, as i said, just because there is nextgenerationeu.
mr president, the climate emergency cannot be separated from the biodiversity crisis, where we are seeing the degradation of ecosystems and the accelerated extinction of species. for a summit that has been continuously postponed, it is time for the international community to demonstrate commitment to our planet and its protection, unlike cop27, which went beyond what was needed. we therefore need an agreement that is binding against degradation and in favour of restoration, recognising the value of areas of high biodiversity, such as the outermost regions of the european union, whose biodiversity is linked to sectors such as tourism, agriculture and fisheries, among others. this is why it is important that we ensure a strategy and funding that promotes the sustainable development of these regions and the recognition of one of their greatest assets: biodiversity.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the free movement of persons in the european union is a right of all children, including those who are the children of rainbow families. but as the case of the baby sara, already decided by the court of justice, shows, the authorities of certain countries refuse to recognise parental relationship of children of same-sex couples, even when it has already been recognised in another member state. this creates enormous problems for the lives of these families and seriously affects these children. parents may, for example, be prevented from accompanying their children to a hospital or even from allowing them to go on a simple school excursion. in extreme cases, if one of the spouses dies in a member state which does not recognise the parental relationship, the child may lose not one but both parental figures. the legislative proposal on the crossborder recognition of parentage, which i hope the commission will present shortly, should ensure the protection of the freedom of movement of children from these families, ensuring that parental relationships and the rights associated with them are recognised for all and respected throughout the union. in the european union, no child can lose his or her rights simply by moving from one member state to another.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. other mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr goerens on the direction he has taken in this report. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, i would like to stress the importance of the review now under way of the european development finance architecture, in the face of the many challenges of the present and those of the future, by opening up this architecture to the participation of all member states and to the joint efforts of the public and private sectors. we advocate that the european development finance architecture should be designed to enable it to function as a vehicle for promoting the visibility and values of the european union. but this can only be achieved by strengthening the orientation of the decisions of this architecture and their consistency and coherence with the political action of the european union through team europe, using it in the implementation of initiatives such as the global gateway or the green deal. finally, i would stress that we consider it essential that the european parliament should be involved and be scrutinised, as the commissioner has stressed.
mr president, arbitrary detentions, searches, torture and inhuman and degrading treatment are a constant feature of the lukashenko regime. the list of oppositionists, activists and protesters is extensive and includes more than 1 500 people who are denied the most basic civil rights. the list of media outlets and non-governmental organisations banned is also long. the intimidation and imposition of prison sentences through politically motivated trials, as in the cases of mikalay autukhovich and palina panasiuk, among many others, continues to be a constant for those who have the courage to challenge the situation in the country. we therefore call once again for the immediate and unconditional release of all those in this situation. but we must go further, we really need to go further, and that is why we call for the strengthening and the rapid and effective implementation of sanctions against lukashenko and his supporters. these are urgent measures which we demand the european union to implement.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, mr commissioner, rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs, colleagues, during this decade, we want to give the eu’s digital transition a decisive boost. we had the compass and now, with today’s decision, we have the concrete targets that we as a union need to achieve by 2030 and the way to get there. now all we need to do is to add political will and financial resources to these tools. in the digitalisation of the economy and society, much is at stake. we have to avoid lagging behind in terms of competitiveness for our economy and companies. we strive to be able to compete for leadership positions in the field of ict and other advanced technologies. issues such as territorial balance, technological sovereignty, the efficiency of public services and administration, energy sustainability or social cohesion are also at stake. incorporation into the digital world should not result in more fractures and divides in our societies. this is why it is so important that the targets that we have agreed upon produce positive effects in each and every of these areas. on the positive balance of the final outcome, i want to emphasise the fact that we included the regional dimension in the digital transition. there are sub-state governments, like the catalan government, that are very active in digital policies, and it’s good that they become involved with the joint endeavour to reach the 2030 targets. on the negative side, i regret that governments didn’t accept even the possibility for the commission to issue recommendations to those member states not on track with digital benchmarks. that no doubt would have helped the implementation of the targets. it’s also regrettable that we couldn’t fully counter the big push from some big member states to introduce in the final text a reference, albeit indirectly, to the so-called fair share principle for investments in digital infrastructures. we need to ensure that net neutrality rules will not be changed and consumers and businesses will not have to pay more for online services due to a misleading concept of fair share. but this is a story to be continued.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. the eu has become the world champion in regulating digitalisation, rather than supporting innovation and new thinking. we have therefore fallen behind on a global scale. i support the idea of investing in digital development because it is a good thing, but i fear that this strategy will fail. i hope i'm wrong. it contains many beautiful words and incredibly ambitious goals, rather than an effective strategy that will give value for our money. it is through economic reforms and education that we create sustainable development for the future and not through inefficient bureaucracy that creates waste. despite the fact that the eu spends more money than both the us and asia on digitalisation, we are still lagging behind. this is not reasonable. we cannot continue in the same vein, but we must start thinking anew.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, digital technologies have the potential to improve citizens' access to information and culture, as well as to provide them with a wider, more diverse and easier choice in accessing public goods and services and enhance their quality of life. but this guide to the digital decade follows the neoliberal agenda of the european institutions, which is geared towards the digital single market, which has been a tool for promoting inequalities between member states, making life difficult, in particular, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are unable to cope with competition and the brutal inequality of means and resources available to the large multinational companies in the sector, and now also to the already institutionalized unicorns. the proposal is that member states should draw up national roadmaps subject to the country-specific recommendations made in the context of the european semester, which we oppose as being an integral part of the european union's instruments for imposing, influencing and monitoring member states' policies. reality shows that the script should be different.
madam president, when we talk about youth policy we cannot dissociate it from concrete and necessary responses to the problems facing young people today. it is essential that the scourge of exploitation and precariousness be brought to an end. let there be wage appreciation. that young people are guaranteed quality public services and that the concerns about the persistent discrimination, which is still very much in evidence, and the dangers to peace in a world which is for all are not ignored. it is necessary to ensure that young people have their rights of access to education, culture, sport, decent housing, leisure, health and sexual education, equality and participation in the associative movement. the european union and its member states must put propaganda aside and implement policies that enable young people to realise their aspirations, put their abilities at the service of development and the well-being of all, and turn their dreams into reality.
madam president, i would like to bring up, to continue, what my colleague mr joão albuquerque has already raised here: the european year of youth. the european years are years of commitment and it is about commitment that we must speak. and the portuguese young people have asked for the four commitments that my colleague joão albuquerque spoke about, but they also ask for: investing in energy independence through renewable energy; promoting the professional retraining of those who lose their jobs due to the digital transition; cleaning up the oceans; protecting biodiversity; the ratification by the european union of the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and a european strategy on mental health. these are commitments, commitments that portuguese young people make to the european institutions, and we, as the european parliament, must take these commitments into account. because the european years will only be a success if we really commit ourselves to the ideas, to the projects, which are shared in the debate throughout the european year.
madam president, the european year of youth has been a unique opportunity to bring the european union closer to young people. this year i had the honour of welcoming 100 young people to the european parliament, mostly from the autonomous region of madeira, an outermost region, to ensure that these young people, who live further away and face increased challenges, are part of the decision-making that we have taken here for their daily lives. because this move away from the continental shelf must not mean a move away from the european project and opportunities must be equal for everyone, whether they live in saint vincent or in the centre of brussels. we have already mentioned the 9 for youth event, with many europeans, including 200 portuguese young people who were brought here to the european parliament as part of this action by the portuguese socialist delegation to this parliament. let this european year not be a facade. let us take action in response to their appeals. it is the young who will be the policy makers for the next decades. and it is they, the young people of today, who will ensure that this european project continues.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, the truth is that across europe, member states that subscribe to the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, that subscribe to the idea that people with disabilities must be guaranteed equal rights and an independent life, are basically passing well-intentioned laws that they have no intention of enforcing. so we continue to see all kinds of discrimination, exclusion, pseudo-therapies and all kinds of symbolic and physical violence against people with disabilities. it is true that much of this responsibility falls within the remit of the member states, but it is also true that we continue to channel a substantial part of community funding for disability policies to institutions which are totally contrary to the spirit and the letter of what is contained in this report. that funding has to end. all the community funding for disability policy must be channelled into the independent living paradigm. that is our responsibility.
madam president, please. you know very well that i have always stood up for the rights of people with disabilities. but it's not nice to force ideological issues into the text, because they're divisive and they distract from the focus. instead of ideological debates, it's time to find solutions to better use innovative technologies, because this helps people with disabilities to live independently. remove barriers to education and training and launch programmes to enable people with disabilities to work in quality jobs and receive equal pay for equal work. our policy is to call a spade a spade. that's what the disability report should be about, nothing else.
madam president, the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is the first international human rights treaty to be signed by the european union and all its member states and therefore legally binding. sixteen years later, we are valuing its compliance. progress has been made, but there is still a lot of work to be done. the keywords are 'accessibility' and 'inclusion'. 'inclusion' means that all people have the same value. 'inclusion' means tolerance. 'inclusion' means equality. inclusion means respect. disabled people themselves give us a lesson in humanity and life every day of what this word means. 'accessibility' is the other key word. accessibility in education there is still a lot to be done. accessibility at work just look at the figures: people with disabilities have much higher unemployment rates than people without disabilities. in the areas of health, justice, gender-based violence against women, affordable housing, participation, voting rights and, above all, stereotypes, people with disabilities give us a daily lesson. we have the opportunity now to act with the same sincerity with which they face their lives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many reports have been voted on in this house on the rights of people with disabilities, whether it be a harmonised approach to the definition of disability, quotas in companies to promote greater inclusion, or good social cover for people living with a disability. the european parliament unanimously calls for concrete action to put an end to the social injustice suffered by people with disabilities. it would be unacceptable if none of our calls or promises were to be translated into concrete action under this mandate. i therefore turn to the commission: let us work together to ensure that this legislative proposal for the introduction of a european disability card is adopted during this parliamentary term. a multitasking card is needed, which does not limit itself to the benefits of transport, but also extends to culture, leisure, sport, education and employment, and an inclusive card, which takes into account the type of disability through differentiated pictograms and qr codes, thus facilitating contacts between people with sometimes invisible disabilities and frontline emergency services. it is also about our credibility with our electors. i thank mrs pelletier for her excellent report. i trust the commissioner will make sure that this matter is dealt with swiftly and in good faith with us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are here today and we all agree that disability is an undeniably disadvantaged condition which makes life and integration into society more difficult for millions of people. unfortunately, after many years and despite the many european and national measures which have not always been coordinated, we must recognize that much remains to be done and, above all, we must recognize that we must fight and break down the cultural barriers of indifference and discrimination. i believe that disability is in the eyes of the beholder, creating social barriers that are much harder to overcome than the material ones; the physical barrier can be broken down, but the invisible barrier is made of incomprehension and indifference. this resolution is a step in the right direction and proposes active inclusion policies to ensure that people can be empowered, looking above all to the future, which, let me say, should be an even more careful stage because it is the most difficult not only for the disabled person but also for those who live with him or her and suffer with him or her, perhaps even more so. she suffers from the discomfort and uncertainty of no longer having, for a loved one, the certainty of conditions of inclusion and equality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, disabled people are people. that's why they have human rights. human rights are part of the rule of law, and the commission has a duty to defend them. i hope that the commission will also strengthen and test its limits in this respect in relation to the council, which has, for example, been pushing for the anti-discrimination directive and the level of ambition needed to take accessibility forward. i thank the commission for its commitment to introduce the eu disability card. this is also the first step towards the actual implementation of mobility and accessibility of services for disabled people. we also need to have obligations on the interoperability of mobility. away from the plant. the same rights and opportunities also apply to working life. it is therefore important to commit companies to diversity in hiring. we also need the same language rights as, for example, this parliament and the same interpretation facilities.
madam president, this report gives voice to many of the demands of people with disabilities. a genuine commitment to the rights of persons with disabilities is needed, with the aim of ensuring that all persons, regardless of their social background, income level or place of residence, have access to quality public services capable of guaranteeing their right to health, education, housing, social security, vocational training and employment with rights and, of course, communication. we need policies that value people with disabilities and their contribution to society, that ensure that they are full citizens, in law and in life, with the guarantee of an autonomous and dignified life, with access to inclusive, public and quality education, targeted health care, culture and sport. we welcome the disabled, their families and the organisations which represent and defend them. they count on us in the struggle to overcome multiple adversities and to combat inequalities and discrimination, demanding the fulfilment of all rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, cop's come and go, but results tend to be scarce and time is running out. here in europe we have been presenting results for several years, and we have taken our homework to successive cop's. at the same time that we've increased our productivity and our gdp, we've been able to reduce our emissions. here, we invest in innovation, in new technologies, in renewables and we demand more from our companies. we can do more, like in electricity interconnections and the energy union. but in this cop27 we have seen the lack of results on the most important of the issues - and the vice-president of the commission has just mentioned it - namely the reduction of emissions. ladies and gentlemen, this is where we really need to have results to prevent the floods, fires and storms we have all experienced from getting worse. we see and hear beautiful speeches and motives everywhere, but few commitments and very few results. what is the point of funding the poorest countries to combat the effects of climate change if the most polluting countries continue to pollute and exacerbate the problem? in europe, we have shown leadership in raising the 2030 targets for reducing emissions. we are the main funder of the fight against climate change in developing countries, but we have not been able to have a mobilizing agenda with the biggest polluters: china, the united states and india. our climate diplomacy has not been producing the necessary results and this is an important reflection that we must make without delay with the commission and the council.
madam president, commissioner, cop27 has been both a breakthrough and a stagnation. the agreement on loss and damage is obviously very positive, as it recognises that some regions of the world are more vulnerable than others, such as the outermost regions, among others, in the eu. but in everything else, it fell short of expectations. a profound transformation must be initiated and the intrinsic links between the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis and the oceans crisis must be recognised, through the end of fossil fuel subsidies and investment in renewables, ensuring accountability of the textile sector, tackling the plastic pandemic, misinformation and unsustainability. there is simply no more time to lose if we are to respond to the calls of our young people, of the younger generations and secure the future of our planet.
i would remind mr alieva-veli that it is against parliament's rules of procedure to display images or objects in the chamber. next time, let's not do that.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for too long rural areas have been left behind, with our best talent moving away for education and employment opportunities. for the first time we have a chance to turn this around. we can embrace a new generation of opportunities, whether it’s remote working that can bring highly skilled people back into rural areas and let them rear a family and breathe life into rural communities, or tourism that can bring much—needed revenue into rural areas. but most importantly, renewable energies can bring industry and employment and rebalance the economic driver back into our rural areas. but we must ensure that the revenue from these new opportunities remains in rural economies and drives the rural economies and is not exported out to other areas. we need to create the right environment. we need broadband. we need to reinvigorate our town centres to make them vibrant places for people to live. we need to create the educational opportunities for people in rural areas, the very same as there are available in urban areas. we also have to acknowledge that agriculture has always been and remains a cornerstone of rural communities. it’s the biggest multiplier in the rural economies. it’s the heart of our food production system and is central to protecting our biodiversity and building a sustainable environment into the future.
madam president, we must not forget the countryside for too long. in the european parliament, we deal with regions, cities and countryside as if it were an imaginary cinderella. it's not that we don't care, but it's like cohesion policy and its results don't reach the countryside. and that's a great pity. cohesion policy is, of course, intended to reduce disparities between regions and must primarily help to keep the countryside alive, a countryside that is truly full of farmers, full of jobs, full of young people. and yet, it seems that cities are acting like magnets, drawing in jobs, people, technology, services. so what we have to focus on is the availability of infrastructure and services in the countryside. that's for sure. secondly, the weakening of the cohesion envelope of money earmarked for regional aid must stop. we must focus on supporting the countryside, including by maintaining the rations that are supposed to be provided.
we believe, madam president, that this report makes a fair diagnosis of the reality of the rural world in some member states and that it has a strong focus on agriculture as the main activity in rural areas. we follow many of the concerns expressed. we are in favour of the development of the incomes of small and mediumsized farmers in order to maintain activity and to develop rural areas, aspects which the common agricultural policy and its successive reforms have neglected by unfairly distributing aid and favouring agribusiness. the report could have gone further in defending the social functions of the state and public services in health, education and care for children, the elderly and disabled people, with infrastructures covering the whole of the territories, giving high quality and proximity responses. if we continue to follow the same old policies, which are moving away from the path of cohesion, and if we insist on making people yield to the taste of big capital, we may even have stronger, more connected and more prosperous rural areas, but it will not be to the benefit of the people, but to the pockets of a few.
rural areas account for 83% of the total european territory and are home to some 137 million people, a significant proportion of the european population. these areas face a number of challenges, such as isolation, ageism and excessive rural exodus, which then translates into lack of opportunities, inequalities, and lack of access to services and goods, often exacerbated when connected to other factors, such as the outermost periphery or difficult terrain. this justifies the interest and importance of drawing attention to a response that attempts to address these difficulties, including through the recognition of their enormous potential in areas of major importance: food and agricultural production, renewable energy production, protection of biodiversity, among others. investment in these areas will promote the attractiveness of the areas for employment and tourism, with very positive social repercussions. this requires the involvement of regional and local authorities, who will be better aware of the specific characteristics of the regions, and increased funding, in particular through the cohesion funds. the development of these areas along this path responds to present and future challenges that ensure social and territorial cohesion, combat depopulation and are in line with the objectives of protecting the planet we pursue.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we agree on many things: we need to accelerate to meet the renewable targets - no question. we must grant permits more quickly, renewables must be given priority - clearly, we agree. and we need to prioritize wind and solar in particular. these are our greatest potentials. but we must not forget, commissioner, that the european union is not the only one. you brought it up. we also need to talk about energy efficiency, renewables and savings. and we're missing that in a lot of ways. we still have problems and i am still very critical of biomass. we cannot increase the rate of wood biomass combustion any further. in the case of biogas, we have to recycle waste, obviously, and not rely on building corn power plants. that's not the future. unfortunately, the epp wants to eliminate a few environmental laws in this whole legislation. they'll have to expect our resistance. and let me be clear: natura 2000 sites can and must have special protection. dear markus pieper: it is not only environmental associations that are hindering the expansion, but also excessive distance regulations in some federal states such as bavaria.
i have to say, madam president, the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. and in this context i also believe that we should evaluate the sanctions against russia in general. because the only effect that these sanctions are having at the moment is that we here in europe and the people in europe are feeling that energy is getting more and more expensive and soon it will no longer be affordable. the failure of energy policy in recent decades has led to the fact that people are no longer able to heat their homes, and that we, for example, are no longer able to heat our three sites, which we so badly need. the only thing that is making this house a little hotter is the s&d group's potentially incendiary contacts with qatar, which are also illegal. but one thing remains: we will not be able to meet the energy demand for 2030, 2035, when we know that electric mobility will increase dramatically, with wind turbines.
madam president, since the signing of the versailles declaration, we have intensified our work in the european parliament, and in particular in the itre committee, to enable the union to act as quickly as possible in implementing the repower eu plan and adapting the fit for 55 proposals to this plan. the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources has already been amended twice. as chair of the itre committee, i would like to thank and congratulate my colleague markus piper and the colleagues responsible from the political groups for the rapid reaction and team spirit over the last few months. we will therefore support the acceleration of the authorisation procedures for renewable energy projects, a better definition of access areas, criteria for the establishment of sites of public interest. in parallel to our legislative work, the european commission has proposed a new temporary council emergency regulation to accelerate the implementation of renewable energy production under article 122. and even though we have serious reservations about the far too frequent use of article 122, the european parliament has taken account of and is coordinating its position with this commission initiative. ladies and gentlemen, mr executive vice-president, parliament has shown that it can react quickly and in full solidarity with the other institutions. we firmly assure european citizens that we will work effectively with member states, with the support of the commission, to have the best legislation, to find solutions to the current price crisis and to achieve our ambitious climate targets.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament, together with the member states, is serious about developing renewable energy. if we reach 45% renewable by 2030, we can save 200 billion euros that we don't have to invest in fossil fuels. we can make ourselves independent of putin's gas. and that goal is attainable with a united effort. i am glad that we have discussed and agreed broadly here in the house, but also in the council, on the simplification of procedures which we need in order to have more renewable energy and to develop it more rapidly. we have an agreement that provides for proportionate development while respecting nature conservation law. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. no more environmental audits for biomass power plants: it's dangerous, it doesn't make sense and it doesn't help anyone. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of natura 2000 sites. it would be much more helpful in the states to abolish unnecessary renewable waste land in federal states such as bavaria. that is why we must stick to the compromise and vote on it today.
madam president, europe is undoubtedly in need of a complete transformation of its energy system, which requires key decisions on energy policies, the pace of decisions on an efficient energy transition and energy independence. the war in ukraine has shown us in no uncertain terms how important this is for the future of europe. the implementation of repowereu will accelerate the deployment of renewable energy sources in europe, encourage further enhancement of energy efficiency as an important component of the whole system and ultimately lead to increased energy savings, energy security and independence. the proposed changes include enhanced measures to speed up the permitting procedures for new res and solar installations. it is a necessary measure, which we support and which will be effective if the member states are actively involved in its implementation and if we find the support of local authorities.
madam president, good morning mr executive vice—president. yesterday, a historic scientific breakthrough was announced. in ten years, nuclear fusion might power a completely decarbonised energy system. but we are still talking about ten years at least. what do we do until then? shall we keep growing our dependence on fossil fuels and foreign countries that produce them? doesn’t seem very wise. shall we keep pouring water on conventional nuclear plants and sweep their waste under the rug? the solution in the meanwhile is investing in solar panels, wind turbines, heat pumps. this is the cheapest and fastest way to decarbonise the energy system now. and we need to accelerate because the climate crisis does not wait for administrative procedures to be done. citizens are on our side, on this as long as we let them be part of the process and aid their advantage on the process, on bills, for example, and don’t impose choices on them. citizens are actually the power that our renewable energy system is built on.
madam president, this strategic plan proposes to intervene in the energy system, reacting to developments in this sector since last year, aggravated by the consequences of war and sanctions which, in accordance with the agenda of the united states of america, are sacrificing the peoples of europe. the measures envisaged in their various forms are essentially in the interests of the major economic groups and european powers. the path traced is far from meeting the needs of the people, ensuring socioeconomic equity and respecting the sovereignty of the states. as in the past, household consumers will bear the cost of the so-called single energy market, while the large economic groups, which exploit the sector and resources, rub their hands and accumulate profits. we believe that it is necessary for the states to intervene in the exploration, supply, production, transport and marketing of the various forms of energy, which should be in the public domain, under public and democratic control. it is in this context that it is urgent to provide the necessary answers to the families and small businesses facing serious difficulties. this is the socially and environmentally sustainable way.
the child guarantee was set up to respond to the shameful situation of having millions of children living in poverty in one of the richest territories in the world, europe, without access to adequate food and basic public services. the programme is important and well designed, but it lacks the resources it needs. it makes no sense, and it cannot continue to happen, for the european commission to announce new programmes, however fair, to require member states to respond to humanitarian crises, such as the refugee crisis in ukraine and, for that matter, also the other refugee crises that have been forgotten, without presenting new resources for these priorities. we cannot have new priorities and respond to new emergencies with the same money as always or, in the case of the european social fund+, with less money than existed in previous cycles. so if we really want to meet this demand that is being made of us, this very just demand, we need new resources, additional resources.
mr president, the child guarantee is an important instrument for immediate responses. about 25% of children in the european union are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. its application in the member states already allows conclusions to be drawn. their means are not even sufficient to compensate for the loss of family incomes due to the surge in inflation, the consequences of the war and the disastrous sanctions policy of the european union. for the child guarantee to have a real impact, a significant increase in its budget is essential. but fighting child poverty is done with structural policies, not with patches. the guarantee that goes beyond appearance is the guarantee of universal, free and quality education, including at the level of early childhood, the guarantee of universal, free and quality health services, the guarantee that parents and carers have a job with rights, decent pay and time for children, the guarantee of the right to play, to sport, to culture, to civic participation, the guarantee of living in a world of peace. i would like to end with a quote from nelson mandela: history will judge us by the difference we make in the day-to-day lives of children.
mr president, a point of order regarding the flow of the works. you are aware, of course, that this debate was supposed to start in about half an hour. as much as i’m told, this was foreseen for in about half an hour. all our colleagues were scrutinising this. there is nobody in the chamber. we, our group, are coming because we started alerting the colleagues to come. this is for sure probably the most important debate in this session. i would ask you – probably even in the name of the other groups, because they are not even here, the leaderships – maybe allow for, i would say, a 10-minute break or something so that the groups can convene. this is such an important debate that we cannot take it cleanly without the groups being aware that it’s starting at this moment. that would be the s&d request.
mr president, commissioner, the seriousness of the allegations of corruption and the facts that have already been revealed are a deep stain on this institution and the european institutions. for my part, disgust was what i felt in the first moments, angry and more and more angry, with every new revelation, with every new fact that we come to know. i am proud that my political group has already acted, and acted immediately, as this parliament has done, by expelling eva kaili from our political group and removing her from the post of vice-president of parliament. but we have much more to do to restore citizens' confidence in our institution and in the european institutions. we must also act in the context of the judicial process, because we have also been a party to the damage, if these acts are confirmed, by setting up a committee of inquiry to look into the situation in depth, but by taking concrete measures to protect the institution against further attacks of the same nature. we must preserve the integrity of european democracy, because, as mrs sophia in 't veld said here a moment ago, it takes a long time to build up this credibility, but it can be lost in a moment. let's work to change this situation.
mr president, commissioner, it is almost three decades since the signing of the oslo accords created hope for a peaceful solution for israel and palestine and their peoples. a solution based on two sovereign states, israel and palestine, peacefully coexisting, with jerusalem as the capital of both states. unfortunately, many steps have been taken since then in the wrong direction, making it increasingly difficult to implement this solution. the consequences of these bad choices have been paid for with insecurity, with lives, with underdevelopment. with this resolution, the european parliament is sending a very clear message to all those involved in the process, including the new israeli government, the far-right party that will be part of it, the various radical parties that will be part of it and, in particular, some of the ministers in this new government. it is necessary to resume peace negotiations leading to the implementation of the two-state solution in accordance with international law and un resolutions. we strongly condemn all systematic actions that undermine the settlement of this conflict, including violence by either side, or the occupation of land or the establishment of settlements in the occupied territories. we must go in a different direction, take up the spirit of oslo, take up the path of dialogue which created hope and led to the award of the nobel peace prize to the signatories of the agreements.
mr president, commissioner, in the gaza strip, 80% of the palestinians are dependent on humanitarian aid. more than half live in poverty and without health care. 80% of young people are unemployed. there are 47,000 palestinian political prisoners. israeli attacks continue in the occupied territories. civilians are still being killed. these numbers are shocking, of course they are. but behind these numbers are people. the strengthening of the influence of the extreme right in power in israel has sharpened the conflict, which increases the demand from the european union. that is why this resolution is important. because he insists that the two-state solution is the only possible solution for peace. because it calls for the convening of an international peace conference. because it advocates increased european funding to stimulate economic recovery, help rebuild infrastructure and support civil society. because it demands an end to illegal settlements and demands that palestinian ngos cease to be considered terrorists. a solution to the conflict must be found and the european union must be part of it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no, i'm not going. the fight against terrorism cannot be used by recep tayyip erdoğan for electoral purposes to launch indiscriminate air strikes in northern and northwestern syria and the kurdistan region of iraq. let's get this straight. with attacks on vital infrastructure and civilian populations, erdoğan is only trying to scare the kurdish people away and thus make room for his plans for social and political re-engineering in the region. no, i'm not going. the international community cannot remain unmoved and calm while watching interventions that only generate more instability in syria and the region and deteriorate the security situation, bringing more suffering to already martyred populations. as in ukraine, so in syria all humanitarian aid is vital to ensure the survival of the populations. i therefore leave here an appeal to the member states to advocate at the united nations for the maintenance of the bab al-hawa humanitarian corridor.
madam president, commissioner, the eu-asean summit must be a moment to deepen regional cooperation and to expand trade relations with asean nations by diversifying supply chains, which is good for both blocs. asean is also a strategic partner for strengthening the eu's strategic autonomy in a multilateral framework. this summit is the moment to move from words to deeds, but it must also be an opportunity not to be missed to promote common and universal values with the governments of the region. we encourage the creation of a legal and political framework for respect for social, labour and environmental rights and for fostering support for civil society organisations in the region, countering the shrinking of civic space in several asean countries. we encourage the end of laws that limit rights such as freedom of association and assembly. above all, this summit must result in the strengthening of relations between the european union and the asean region and its member countries.
at the next council, energy solutions and economic responses must go hand in hand. we need to extend the iberian mechanism which has already enabled portugal to reduce the energy bills of households and businesses by eur 360 million compared to the scenario without this mechanism. we need to put in place joint gas purchases to achieve more favourable prices and we need to speed up the structural reform of the electricity market which the commission has promised. it is our families and our economies that we must defend, it is the health of our citizens, which depends on the warmth of their homes, that we must preserve. that is why the socialist and democratic group is proposing an energy emergency package, earmarking money for this from the european budget. we hope that the outcome of this council will alleviate the energy problem we are experiencing, so that european citizens can start the year 2023 with the hope of better days.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the council on the late agreement of two days ago. they overrode hungary's veto, we can now approve the global rate and move forward with support for ukraine at 18 billion euros. they have made the rule of law conditionality work, forcing hungary to make reforms, freezing european funding to hungary. congratulations, the chairman. however, we cannot remain hostage to the veto and we must be vigilant about how this package is implemented. it is good to see the energy interconnections item on the agenda and here i would like to highlight the portugal-spain-france agreement, which is so important for ending the iberian island, so important for promoting and deepening the internal energy market and the energy union.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the rising cost of living is an undeniable reality. the historical numbers of inflation are obvious, but it's critical to look at the people that those numbers represent. families, especially the youngest, are facing escalating food prices, significant instability in energy prices and a tremendous rise in housing credit. we know that invariably the poorest families are the most affected and that solutions cannot be delayed. the fight against inflation in europe is a political priority, an economic emergency and a social emergency. everybody has to do their part. in the european union, the independent european central bank leads monetary policy and the commission has a duty to ensure that its funds, the funds we approve here every year, reach the people and that there is free and fair competition within the internal market. wasting time on easy criticism of europe is not serious. it is a matter for those who have no solutions to present in their own country. unfortunately, this is the reality we see in some european capitals, particularly in my country, portugal. this fight is not fought by taxing more of the taxpayers who are already strangled. it is done with the good use of european funds to generate employment and investment, with responsible and ambitious national budgets and with more seriousness in political discourse. the time we live in is not for justification, it is for decision.
madam president, after a response to the pandemic crisis that seemed to indicate that europe had learned the lesson of the financial crisis, we are again heading for a self-imposed recession and economic crisis. the european central bank, contrary to its own analyses, responds to inflation by raising interest rates. the commission regrets the consequences of speculation in finance, distribution and energy, but it does nothing to stop it, and governments like mine freeze wages and pensions, imposing a definitive cut to all people who have lived or live by their work, while offering tax breaks to capital income. the economic recession in 2023 is not inevitable. we know what solutions have worked, and we also know what solutions have failed in the past. the budgetary and monetary policy of the european union must be reversed, otherwise we will have to answer to our citizens for having deliberately and knowingly provoked a new economic crisis in europe.
madam president, in portugal food products increased by 18.9%, bottled gas by 19.5% and energy products by 27.6%. there is a sharp increase in household incomes, 9.2% in lisbon and 6% in porto. the house benefit will go up between 100 and 150 euros and five families are evicted daily. it is estimated that more than two million people will put on the poverty numbers. this is the reality of portuguese workers. meanwhile, big business in distribution, energy and banking is making record profits at the expense of speculation in the prices of goods and services, low wages, precariousness, increased exploitation of labour and the impoverishment of the people. the general increase in wages and pensions is therefore an emergency. they can't be the same people who pay. it is an emergency because it is the only way people can cope with the steady and burdensome increase in the cost of living. it's an emergency because it stimulates the economy, stops unemployment and prevents a bigger crisis, and it's an emergency because it's a way to redistribute the wealth produced more fairly. there is no excuse for postponing the general increase in wages and pensions.
mr president, we all remember scandals in political campaigns such as the brexit or the trump campaign. they were linked to foreign interference, but also to new ways, especially digital, of campaigning. with the regulation of political advertising that we are working on here in parliament we can, at once, help to correct both of these problems. we want to ban the financing of political advertising by foreign actors in the european union. we want to increase transparency in campaigns by requiring information on who pays and how much for political advertising and by creating political ad repositories that allow journalists, researchers and public authorities to more easily detect foreign interference. and finally, we want to restrict the targeting of political advertising that, in the famous campaigns i mentioned, was used to polarize and radicalize many voters, manipulating their emotions with distorted or even completely false information. at a time when democracy is under attack, we must be brave in the remedy. believe me, that's what we're doing.
rapporteur. madam president, mr president, mr commissioner, two years after its entry into force, the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 in the centralised management pillar has been brought to the limit of its budgetary availability. and this, alongside nextgenerationeu, has also enabled us to respond to the economic and social effects of the pandemic. unexpected challenges have come to the eu budget: support for ukraine in its different dimensions, support for people and businesses to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the war, the impact of energy and food prices, or the effect of rising inflation. it has worked, the principle of flexibility has worked, but we have already realised that the use of flexibility is insufficient. i am pleased to note the strength and political will of the european parliament as a budgetary authority, taking decisions in record time so that europeans have the necessary support from the european union. from vaccines to supporting ukrainian refugees, or supporting the financing of €18 billion for the functioning of the ukrainian state, so that it can provide minimum services to citizens. it is now clear that the architecture of the multiannual financial framework is not adapted to the pressure it is under, nor to the current macroeconomic timetable. the current mff, as it stands, is not equipped to finance emerging policies such as climate transition and compliance with the paris agreement, increased defence cooperation, the creation of a sovereign fund for strengthening the strategic autonomy of the european union, the building of energy autonomy, where repowereu has to become a key instrument, the implementation of the integrated circuits regulation, the social climate fund, which must be in the budget of the european union. we therefore need a revised multiannual financial framework. so we need to move from point solutions to structural solutions in the budget architecture. on the revenue side, we need the new own resources agreed in 2020 to be entered in the union budget on the agreed timetable. in order to enable the union budget to react quickly to crises and their social and economic effects, we propose the creation of a permanent instrument which can be activated whenever necessary. we therefore need the commission to propose a permanent instrument within the mff and we hope, commissioner, that this will be its legacy for the future of the union budget. commissioner hahn, the european parliament does not want to continue to see the creation of financial instruments outside the budget of the european union, in which parliament has seen its power of budgetary authority reduced. this led to the creation of the european stability mechanism in 2012 and, outside the community framework, and more recently, nextgenerationeu. enough with the 122nd! we also do not want funding outside the union budget, via external resources, we want more transparency, more democratic accountability. we also do not want cohesion policy to be used as a crisis response mechanism, as it has had to be now, and well, because there was no other way to compensate for the shortcomings in budgetary flexibility. i'm not going to. cohesion policy is not a crisis instrument, it is the investment policy of the european union and must remain so. commissioner hahn, as always, will have the full support of the european parliament to make the budget of the european union more efficient and more effective in supporting the political ambition of the european union.
rapporteur. madam president, at the end of this debate, it is clear that we need a revised mff, we need to protect cohesion policy and we need a permanent instrument within the budget of the european union. and we ask the commission, when preparing the revised proposal for the 2021-2027 mff, to take account of the political lines set out in this resolution, which are parliament's requests. i would like to conclude this debate by thanking mr olbrycht, who has prepared this report with me. jan, it's a pleasure working with you! i thank the shadow rapporteurs who helped to make this report ambitious and forward-looking, valérie hayer, rasmus andresen, dimitrios papadimoulis, the sectoral rapporteurs from the various committees, because they too had a say, the secretariat of the committee on budgets and our staff for the long hours and the quality of the work. thank you! we are making the european union's multiannual financial framework work in the service of the european union and its citizens.
author. madam president, after we watched the enthronement ceremony of xi jinping as the supreme leader, the seemingly impossible has happened. yes, there will always be hope as long as there are men and women who are able to rebel against any form of tyranny and cry out for freedom and rights. the protests of the chinese people regarding the covid-19 measures, calling for freedom and even the removal of xi jinping from power, demonstrate the will of the people to fight and forced the chinese government to backtrack on the lockdown measures. yes, it is possible. so let us draw conclusions and make human rights dialogues something effective and not just an expedient. let us be consistent in defending human rights in china. we do not turn a blind eye to the atrocities committed in xinjiang and tibet. let us not be fearless and calm in the face of the process of adopting in macau a national security law similar to that applied in hong kong, laws which violate the freedoms and guarantees enshrined in the sino-portuguese and sino-british declarations. let's not turn a blind eye to the way the tech platforms have been cooperating for the repressive control of the chinese people. and there will be no more extraditions to china between member states.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. by force of arms, the putin regime has tried to impose itself on the sovereign will of the ukrainians. but the determination of a people who want to be free is proving ever stronger, and that is why we awarded him the sakharov prize yesterday. putin's attack on ukraine's basic infrastructure is aimed at vengefully punishing the population for its resistance, leaving millions without power and facing unbearable temperatures. we heard incredible testimonies from those who came here to receive the sakharov prize of how families are coming together to face this impossible situation. the situation is truly dramatic. my colleague, mr kubilius, whom i congratulate on this, has mentioned several proposals by the ukrainian government to increase humanitarian aid. we cannot remain indifferent, let alone paralyzed. the european union has a moral responsibility to support ukraine. i therefore call on the commission and the council to continue to put forward proposals along the lines advocated by the ukrainian government and european bodies, so that we can collectively live up to our responsibility. you will find that you will find nothing but overwhelming support from the european parliament.
