i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 16 december 2021.
it is with great sadness that we are about to give our president a final, heartfelt greeting today. europe has lost a leader, democracy has lost a champion and we have all lost a friend. david was one of us. he was a man of great vision and deep conviction. both as a man and as a politician, he has always been able to translate the values in which he believed into concrete actions. it was fate that he should be president of this house at a particularly difficult and delicate time. he took courageous decisions to ensure that parliament remained active during the most critical months of the pandemic. this has enabled us to continue the legislative work and to pass important legislative packages that europe and its citizens needed. but she was also determined to give a concrete sign of solidarity by making parliament's facilities available to the most vulnerable, and particularly to women who are victims of violence. he has never shied away from challenges and in these two and a half years he has led parliament with dignity, balance, honour and clarity of purpose. in his last public statement, president sassoli looked back on the past year and said: "this year we heard the silence of the planet, we were afraid but we reacted, and built a new solidarity, we fought alongside those who demanded more democracy, more freedom, alongside women who demanded rights and protection. who asks to protect their thought. "alongside those who continue to demand free and independent information". david fought bravely, to the end. his fight against poverty, injustice and isolation will be a model for us, and his call for europe to protect the most vulnerable, to abandon indifference and to help build a new world that respects people and nature will continue to resonate in these halls for a long time to come. he was respected and appreciated for his outspokenness, his commitment to our european ideals and his unwavering determination to make this world a better, fairer and more just place. today, parliament joins alessandra, his wife, and their sons julius and livia in mourning his untimely demise. before he was president, he was a husband and a father. maybe that's why our first conversation was about the challenges of politics and family, about the importance of making a mark, about making a difference. david made a difference. he left a mark. someone once said, "great lives are those in which people feel a calling, have a sense of calling". david felt that calling, always with a smile. last week in rome, people who knew him fell into two categories: "you were either his friend or his great friend". there was no hatred, no bitterness, no rancor in his work. his commitment to europe was not just political. as a journalist, he was determined to find the truth. as president, you have led this institution with the dignity, rights and freedoms of all people at heart. through the difficult days of the past few years, he has guided us with wisdom, balance and foresight. his words inspired us. his actions have encouraged us. his calm candor comforted us. dear david, you were a friend, a mentor, a leader: fate has willed you to leave us prematurely, when you still had much to do, but this assembly will honor your work and treasure your legacy. this parliament, your parliament, which you loved so much, thanks you for what you have done. on behalf of all your colleagues and everyone you've met on this incredible journey, i extend a touched and grateful farewell. thank you, david, thank you, president. (applause) i would like to thank
secretary of the italian democratic party and former president of the council of ministers of the italian republic. madam president, dear alessandra, dear giulio, dear livia, mr president of the republic, mr president of the european council, mr president and mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the smile, the eyes and the words. the smile, the eyes and the words. with this triptych, i want to begin this speech in memory of david. the smiles, the sighs. the eyes, the eyes of others. the words, the cells of those who are here have no voice. her smile, his, was a special gift and it's the first thought that crosses the mind of each of us when we think of david. this is the image here translated as "force and serenity". his smile was an innate gift, but his smile was above all an état d'esprit: it was the smiles of the hostess. there was the smile of understanding; it was the smile of benevolence and coherence. because david's smile, before even being a gift of nature, engaging and captivating, capable of predisposing you to the positive, was an inner smile, the smile of someone who always seeks the good in every event, the good that is present in every meeting and in every person. we smile, we are reassured, we are given hope and we are never lacking until the last day, until this last message of christmas and until the last look with alessandra, with giulio and livia. the eyes: those of the others, those whom david sought, regarded and crucified. these eyes here tell the dramas of our epoch. i shall now return to one of his most beautiful speeches, the one on the commemoration of the nazi massacre in fossoli, italy. the eyes of humanity, the eyes of mauthausen as the eyes of srebrenica, of the syrian refugees of the seas, filmed on the pneumatic boats before they drown in the race to a happiness that will never come because of our indifference. david had a great gift for looking beyond. he knew not to be afraid of appearances; he knew the substance. the word: the cells of the voiceless. his whole life has been devoted to giving words to the voiceless. to give hope to those who have no hope. this instinctive predisposition towards others is reflected in david's life by the incessant construction of spaces for dialogue and the tireless practice of listening. it is therefore obviously in europe that david found his most natural dimensions. what is europe if not the political project of an area of dialogue between different peoples and countries, built on common values of solidarity and reciprocity? europe, this is the ouverture. david therefore took up a fundamental point of european identity when he said that europe is only as powerful as when it does not refer to itself. thus, from this concept, at the institut jacques-delors, during an unforgettable meeting in front of the collegiate bernardin in paris, david had developed a powerful discourse based on the europe of values. europe is a power of values or it is not, a constant desire to never abandon this founding idea of our being together. relance, puissance, appartenance: the motto of the french presidency, monsieur le président de la république, is the demonstration that this vision can and must be the basis of an ambitious political project. in recent days, in all italian cities, the demonstrations of affection for david have been growing. his state funeral, requested by president draghi - who i thank for being here today and for his extraordinary work of service to italy - was an incredible moment of unity for our country. the ceremony in rome last friday was a hymn to europe. even in his final moments, david left us a great legacy. on that day, with that european flag, with that feeling of so many languages intertwined, we all really felt that europe is not just directives, institutions, acronyms. no, europe is first and foremost its people, its souls, its hearts. yes, hugs, emotions, smiles and even tears. and right here i would like to share a reflection that has the flaw of putting a bit of bitterness into the very intense atmosphere of tonight, but on the other hand, i think that a community of women and men who are gathering in the emotion of the loss of one of their own whom we loved so much should also take lessons and use words that are not taken for granted. these days of mourning for italy are also those of the difficult choice of the president of the republic, the one or the one who will take the place of a president of exceptional talents like sergio mattarella. in recent days, there have been many voices saying that david would be the president to be elected on monday. voices from all political persuasions. i was talking to him about this a month ago, in his last meeting, and i recorded his smile and a phrase that i hold in my heart. the lesson i learned today is that politics must look beyond the surface and the immediate and make bold choices. because that choice that seems obvious to most people, today that david is gone, didn't seem so yesterday, but it's too late now. david was a man who could see the bigger picture. his constant commitment, care and dialogue with those who are culturally distant also represented his political method, something he himself claimed, and this method best reflects the soul of the european project, because that is how europe was made. the europe conceived in the ventotene manifesto, which david was so inspired by, which is why it was particularly good that the italian government announced today that it would name the ventotene prison recovery project after david, that europe which is united in diversity, words which for david were not a rhetorical slogan, but were real substance and method. david has always been committed to a europe that would not fall into the temptation of homologation, working instead for a europe that respects traditions and specificities. this requires hard work and patience, and the pains of this method can sometimes make us angry, but it is better to be angry and discuss in peace, as david once said in a speech in florence. and europe is a project of peace, david was strongly convinced of this from his early political experiences, when he and some friends joined a political group called the white rose, directly inspired by those german catholic boys who opposed nazism. europe is therefore for david a process of history going forward, a long-standing building site which naturally looks to the new generations. even for this sustainability, the fight against climate change were not for david one of the many paragraphs to be inserted into a speech about europe. i heard him speak last summer in montepulciano about the sustainability goals with renewed strength and vision, with a new vision that fascinated the younger generation and led them to understand immediately that for a green and sustainable future we must want a stronger europe, because the national level is not enough. every blow we take today to european integration pushes further away the goal of sustainability, further away the promise of a world still habitable a hundred years from now, still as beautiful as today. that afternoon, surrounded by the beautiful tuscan hills, we were taking our age and demographics, and we were saying that if we had grandchildren, they would have a life expectancy of maybe more than 120 years, they would see the world of 2150. not science fiction, but the real thing. and what will that world be like? it depends on the choices we make today. how our young people, our children, our grandchildren will live it depends on us, on our love for them and for our land, on our courage in limiting our generational selfishness and above all on our commitment to building a stronger europe. david knew that a strong europe cannot exist without democracy and the rule of law, because a peaceful dialogue between different countries and positions can only take place within a framework of democratic rules. david strongly believed that democracy cannot be taken for granted. it must be fought for and defended. democracy is not a gift but an achievement that must be earned over and over again. these beliefs were at the core of david's actions as president of this parliament. during his mandate not only did he keep the light of european democracy on, but he also innovated it. he did so by making a choice that changed history. in 2020, when many institutions all over the world closed down, he chose to keep this parliament open. today, we take this choice for granted but, at that time, it was a contested, divisive and therefore brave, decision. with that decision, shared with all of you, david made history. you made history. by making the european parliament a protagonist at a crucial time in our common history. that was not simply a symbolic gesture, but foremost one of substance. at a time when it was most needed, a functioning and proactive european parliament enabled the eu to tackle the covid-19 crisis, by using a more communitarian, over an intergovernmental, approach. by overcoming national vetoes and making the first concrete steps towards a real social europe and a europe of health. once again, we have clear proof that this house all of you are the very heart of the union's political life. just imagine what the european response to the pandemic would have been like had the parliament remained locked down. it would have been very different i'm sure. davids choice your choice contributed to a european response based on solidarity. in that watershed period, david directed all the energies of the european parliament towards fighting the pandemic. when hospitals and intensive care units risked collapse, parliament put its drivers and cars at the disposal of medical staff in brussels, enabling them to reach sick people at home. in strasbourg here parliaments premises were made available to host a covid-19 screening centre for people in need. for many months in 2020, parliament itself opened its doors, hosting women in need and providing cooked meals to the homeless and the poorest. this was david's idea of europe and european institutions: open to citizens and close to their needs. bringing citizens closer to european institutions was one of the goals david worked for with the most determination and passion. he was one of the first supporters of the conference on the future of europe. always ready to promote this innovative project of participatory democracy and to defend it from those who wanted to water it down. just as he kept open the doors of this parliament, david aimed at opening doors for citizens all over our continent. the participation of citizens was and is exactly what our democracy needs, now and in the future. it is the courage to keep the doors open, to defend and support our democracy. and it is with that courage that we all of us gathered here today should stay committed to make the conference a success because this would be the best way also to honour david's memory. as president of this parliament, david always worked to make citizens voices heard, especially the weakest voices. he did so when he fought to strengthen the social dimension of the union. he did so when he denounced europe's reluctance to assume its political duties towards developing countries on vaccines. he did so in his constant attention to young people and students, for example in his battle to abolish the wrongful practice of unpaid internships in the offices of meps. and he did so when he condemned the unacceptable attitudes towards those who are fleeing war and hunger and who look at europe as a land of hope. the truth is that we are not afraid of migrants but we are afraid of poverty, as he said. europe cannot be a fortress. it has never been. david knew that a fortress europe means a soulless europe doomed to lose itself. it was to save europe that he strongly and repeatedly called for the construction of a common european asylum and migration system, to finally move beyond the dublin regulation. this is also why he visited the border between lithuania and belarus and the border between greece and turkey on the evros river to call for urgent solutions and to witness personally the dire conditions to which men, women and children were exposed. the common thread of all these battles is clear: the european union is a union of values. that is why we must stand firm against any authoritarian temptation, against the attempts to silence the press, to jeopardize the independence of the judiciary system and against the discrimination of minorities. as president of this parliament, david stood strongly in support of the values we hold dear because, as he said, democracy, freedom and the rule of law are never up for negotiation. david's fight for democracy, freedom and the rule of law has been an inspiration to all of us. his fight has been a beacon of hope and it is on this word, hope, that i would like to conclude. hope was the mark of david's leadership. there was hope in his smile, in his eyes and in his words. one of david's lessons was that hope is not the certainty of victory, but it is an awareness that efforts for the common good are never in vain, because they will leave a positive seed in society. every seed requires care and it requires time. so we have a duty to live fully, without wasting a single moment just like you did, david. a random life? i never will. as you told friends to welcome this new year, you left an everlasting mark on european history and on our lives. we will carry on your work. your fights will keep being our fights. we will never forget you. i'll see you later, david. (applause from the left)
there will be a musical interlude for a few minutes. musical interlude: cello suite no. 4 in e flat major, bwv 1010sarabande by johann sebastian bachplayed by ms anne gastinel, cellist
president of the european council. mr president of the european parliament, it is with this address to you, dear david, that all the speeches made at this podium for the last two and a half years have begun, in this temple of european democracy in which you have displayed your intelligence and vitality for the last 15 years. when we speak to you again tonight, we all wish you were with us. president of the european parliament, you naturally inspired respect, and that far beyond the office. a respect for yourself, warm, simple, genuine, smiling; and firm, when the control of the meeting required it. we are gathered here tonight to pay tribute to the president of the european parliament, a political leader, a proud european. but first, we say goodbye to the man. david sassoli is first and foremost a son, a father, a husband, a brother, a friend, a colleague, and i want to say, solemnly, warmly, affectionately, all my sympathy and condolences to his wife, his children, his mother, his whole family, to all those with whom he leaves a sudden and painful emptiness. we would so like to share with you even a little of your sorrow, madam. a political personality is a woman or a man whose deep nature, character, but also the path and life experiences determine a destiny. and the first encounter often leaves a lasting memory. i remember my first meeting with david sassoli. from the very beginning, i was impressed by his relaxed, generous attitude, all-around attention to others. and then that smiling face, that smile, that's his trademark. and with you, david, the smile doesn't lie and it says a lot about your soul. it says a lot about your sincere and solid convictions. it tells you your strengths and your doubts. mario monti, a few days ago, had the right words and i want to quote him here: "ordinary people and politicians have seen in david sassoli a way of participating in political life that is not cynical, that is not machiavellian, that is not twisted, that is not incomprehensible, not essentially interested. other and this mark, this signature, david, your son giulio, in rome a few days ago, summed it up with words that sound just right: "david sassoli, these are strong ideas and a gentle way. other yes, your convictions were strong and they defined your commitments. first, as a journalist, to inform is to put oneself at the service of an ideal, to help citizens to enlighten the world and to understand it better. with this understanding, they can then exercise their rights and freedoms with dignity and responsibility. this profession of journalist, you practiced it with passion, with an elegance too, which left an indelible memory with millions of viewers and italian citizens. and then the other matrix of your commitment, known to your loved ones before it gradually traces the path of your political action, are the ideals of social justice and solidarity. they were your banners and, much more than banners, they were also the concrete actions you took, such as the decisions you took as president of parliament, for example, to open the doors of this house in order to help the most deprived, especially women, during the pandemic. i have precious memories of our cooperation, of the times we spent together, dear david. moments that show that kindness is a strength and it's never a weakness. moments that show that you were constantly concerned about bringing us together, to look to the future together, to also generate new ideas for europe. i am sure that ursula remembers, as i do, your initiative to meet us in january 2020 in bazoches, france, in the house of jean monnet, to reflect and prepare together for the challenges of this european legislature that was opening up before us. and i remember especially dinner in that family dining room. you have created an atmosphere of complicity, enthusiasm and generosity, but also a shared awareness of the power of our european democratic values. that night i got to know you. i discovered a charming personality, truly firm in her values and so committed to the sense of compromise that shapes european unity. these are the qualities, which we did not know at the time, that turned out to be so useful, so valuable a few months later when we were mobilizing to adopt the european budget and the recovery plan. we also faced the realisation of brexit with you and it was together, at a press conference in brussels, that we decided to mark this brexit day as a symbol of our common determination to advance the european project in the service of all citizens. today we can admit that it was not easy to turn this political setback into a moment of optimism. and david sassoli had the right words and the right words to defend the european project. words that came from the heart, words that captivated the audience, words that made the chest explode, lifted the head. words that make you want to move faster and further. you said, david - and it's so true - that if the authoritarian powers criticize or attack europe, it's because our democracy, our freedoms, our values scare them. if it works here, it can work anywhere. the european values of freedom and democracy are existential threats to autocrats everywhere. and that day i saw how the smiling, caring david sassoli could also be transformed into a passionate tribune, a true lion in the service of european democracy. and i also remember those moments, sometimes in public, sometimes behind closed doors, when david spoke his message and that of the european parliament aloud, without fear of offending or even contradicting the opinions or decisions of the heads of state or government. for example, at this conference in bled, slovenia, last september, the day after the fall of kabul, there was a commotion, a buzzing in the front row of the room. you were very critical of governments, in your taste for too much of the cold on immigration issues. and there i saw david sassoli, always smiling, but fighting, piercing eyes, speech without concession. finally, just a month ago, on 16 december, we were sitting together at the same table at the european council. as is your custom, you opened the sitting with your usual warm welcome, presenting parliament's positions on the subjects on the agenda. and i feel touched and moved as i look back on that moment and reread your speech. because you told us that you wanted to go beyond current topics to talk about the renewal of the european project. and i can see it today as a kind of political testament. you called for - and i quote - a new project of hope for europe. a project that can embody our union, our values and our civilisation. and, in concrete terms, you proposed that this coming 9 may should be the occasion for a major demonstration which would demonstrate our strong commitment to this project. david, you are leaving and it is now up to us to be faithful to the commitment you made and i quote you here as well: 'it is our task, you said, to translate these visions into action so that europe can maintain its position and its promises in the service of all europeans.' dear david, you have done your part and more to keep europe in its place. you held your own. you've kept your civic status. you have held your position as a political leader, committed with fervor to our common values. you're gone, david, and a part of you remains in each of us. we're inspired by your example. thank you, mr president. thank you, my dear david. may you rest in peace. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the french republic and president-in-office of the council. madam president of the european parliament, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, heads of state and government, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, dear mrs alessandra, dear giulio and livia, ladies and gentlemen, less than two months ago, in this very same amphitheatre, we paid tribute, with david sassoli, to a great figure of europe who has passed away, valéry giscard d'estaing. he was there, he was speaking. no one could then suspect his own demise. and with the same fervour, with the same conviction, with the same strength, he expressed so well his own attachment to the european adventure and to what binds us all. it is with emotion that i will recall the memory of a man of rare benevolence, whom all have mentioned before me, whose smile, ideals and vision were wide enough for a continent. with a sense of admiration too, for the brilliant career that has taken him from journalism school to the sets of the italian 8 o'clock and right here. he was also honoured for his exemplary political career as a member of the european parliament for three terms, which saw him take up his seat in the european parliament in 2009, turning the page on journalism, opening a new chapter in his life, written in the ink of political commitment, and going beyond the borders of italy. finally, he felt a sense of indebtedness to the european construction, to all the stones he contributed to our building today as a keen craftsman, and to all those he carved for tomorrow as a fervent architect. when he was elected vice-president of parliament in 2014, he set the tone and the tempo very quickly. he was in charge of the budget and he handled our common fund with discernment and efficiency and with that spirit of openness, that ambition of openness which you have just mentioned. he was responsible for the dialogue with the mediterranean and middle east countries and opened the window of europe to the south with a talent that reminded him that he was himself a son of the mediterranean. he also managed to bring our union into dialogue with the western balkans, forging new links with north macedonia and albania, where he made many trips as an attentive and effective envoy. several of his battles have just been recalled here. "cuore e ambizione", heart and ambition, was the rallying cry of his 2019 inaugural address. with heart and ambition, he was with you. he was more concerned than any other president of parliament, who was struck down after only six months in office by the pandemic that still constrains our lives. he was concerned until the last moment with the proper organisation of your plenary session this week. even at the height of the crisis, when he made the painful choice of confining himself to brussels, far from his family, to devote himself fully to his task, he did not let panic dictate his responses, but tried to discern the path of prudence and reason, of ambition as well as solidarity. with you, the choice was made to stay open, to work, to organize. very quickly, he also mobilized the abandoned premises of the parliament, both in strasbourg and in brussels, for the preparation of meals for needy families, for the installation of a screening centre, for the reception of women victims of violence. sending to the whole of europe a face of humanity, of exemplarity. the europe he defended is one of solidarity: solidarity between its citizens and between its members. the europe he defended is strong, the strength of unity. as both the moderator and the peacemaker of this house, he was confronting ideas, never people. this personal gift, which brought together people who seemed to be far apart in language, culture and character, enabled him to overcome their reservations and to reach a consensus. with his will and talent, he did a marvellous job of bringing about a concerted response to the crisis, showing that one of the main lessons of this ordeal lay not only in the sovereignty of states but also in collective sovereignty, because our sovereignty, in this third millennium, cannot be achieved without europe. despite the ups and downs, it produced a majority which laid the foundations for a common debt, for a europe that is truly united and that is writing its destiny together. beyond the health emergency, he never lost sight of the defence of the rule of law, on our continent and elsewhere, this defence that he carried throughout his mandate, as well as the climate and migration issues, campaigning for a new common pact, for a stronger ambition. he also led the conference on the future of europe at the baptismal font, in keeping with his vision of a union that is more incarnate, from its roots to its summit, closer to citizens and more involved. from his speech on 9 may 2021 at the launch of the conference, i retain this faith in the effectiveness of democracy: in the face of authoritarian temptations, only it can protect our individual and collective freedoms, human dignity, peace, security, and social progress. he grew up in florence and studied in rome, and his deep sense of human dignity, further reinforced by his ideals, brought honour to these two flamboyant capitals of european humanism. i bow to his family tonight, to whom i offer my sincere condolences, and also to all his relatives, his comrades in arms, dear rico, to all the italian people, dear mario, to all the members of the european parliament here present, as his closest team, and to all the staff of the european parliament, all of whom i know were so attached to him. the europe which he has steered through the storm and yet managed to hold on to in the future survives, stronger and more united. a little bit of him lives on through her. a little of it lives on through us, through this european flame that we will continue to stoke. the one from his last speech on 16 december last, of a europe to innovate, protect, shine. we shall all remember the gentle smile he had just mentioned, the almost metallic determination in his eyes, that strength, especially when he spoke of europe and values, and that modesty which suited him so well and which is so rare in our world. this modesty which was at once this alliance of respect and tenderness towards the other and a willingness at the bottom not to say too much about oneself. so tonight, it is these battles that we will remember, but it is also this face, made of determination, gentleness and modesty. in the background, the face of a european of goodwill. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, jacques delors said that europe lacked a soul; david sassoli was the very soul of europe. this is perhaps the most difficult speech, the most painful, because we have not only lost a great president, we have also lost a colleague, a friend, and europe has lost an exemplary politician. politics as a service to the common good, as a collective effort to improve people's lives, and always with a smile, with a kind look and a sincere will to build bridges, to move forward together without leaving anyone behind, and, above all, caring for the most vulnerable, those who need politics to get ahead, because the value of the person, his dignity, is the measure of our policies, as david said. in his inaugural address to the house, he listed the founding values of our union - freedom, dignity and solidarity - for which we must work inside and outside europe, and to this david dedicated his life, to this noble cause, and to his family and friends. for the last two and a half years he has devoted himself entirely to this house, which is the home of european democracy. he had to face the worst crisis the continent had known since the war: we must thank him for his efforts to keep this parliament open and operational, even if that meant living away from his family and being at the foot of the canyon during the worst moments. in very difficult circumstances we learned to work together, always with that broad smile and that outstretched hand that really made everything easier. he raised the voice of this parliament to call for a european solidarity response, with a jointly funded recovery fund to be able to provide that european response, but, moreover, david did not forget the most urgent needs: when everything was closed at the worst times - many of you have already remembered this - he set up a social dining room here in parliament, and a shelter for women victims of gender violence in these facilities. in his last video, in december, he reminded us again of the obligation to care for the weakest, and that social protection is our identity as europeans. many people have fond memories of david because he was a man of love: from all political groups and from all corners of europe, expressions of affection have come in for the loss of a good man, a committed, passionate europeanist, able to dialogue and at the same time to stand firm in his principles of freedom, democracy and solidarity. the best tribute we can pay to him today is to continue his legacy: to build a social europe and a migration policy that puts people at the centre; to work together to make the europe to which he dedicated his life a reality. as you know, david was also a very generous person, so today i'm going to ask him one last favor: i'm going to ask him to borrow a little of that christian faith that he had, and that i lack, so that wherever he is he can see the affection and respect that he has left among us all. dear friend, dear president, you will always be with us. (applause) i would like to thank you.
president of the epp group. – madam president, the entire european parliament pays tribute to our president, david sassoli. we were all heartbroken by the news of his death. it was a shock. with his kindness, his values, european vocation, the seriousness and the spirit of compassion for helping those in need, david sassoli is and was a great european. we owe him a lot. our thoughts are, first of all, with his family: his wife, alessandra vittorini, and his two children, livia and giulio. personally, i am losing a friend. he was a role model of professional ethics in both journalism and politics, far from loudness and dirty tactics. indeed, david sassoli will be remembered as a bridge builder, inspired by the idea of serving his community. both his communication style and his political culture were inspired by the values of tolerance and solidarity. i loved to work with david. david was a real bridge builder. his roots lay in social catholicism, and he was a committed social democrat, who not only listened to other opinions but also was able to build up on these different opinions, common solutions, to build up bridges. with his death, the european parliament loses a passionate politician, a thoughtful leader and a great personality. his home was italy, but his destiny was europe. for example, he was in berlin when the wall fell. for him, the fall of the berlin wall was a european event, the founding episode of today’s europe, which made the east, west, north and south of europe stronger together. this togetherness and the unity of all europeans was his approach to leading our european parliament. david sassoli repeatedly affirmed that young people want a different and more united europe. he also reiterated his firm belief in the future of europe, especially in the inauguration of the conference on the future of europe, of which he is also one of the leading architects. and i quote him, ‘i am personally convinced that the awareness of our unity and a common destiny is shared by the majority of citizens and decision-makers. let us overcome our differences and work together, while respecting our diversity, to lay the foundations for a new social, democratic and european contract. let us make a stronger, more resilient, more democratic and more united europe.’ let us all work together to ensure that his legacy sees the light of day. grazie mille di tutto, caro david. riposa in pace. (applausi)
former chairman of the renew group. madam president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague, mr stéphane séjourné, for allowing me to address the david family and all of you on behalf of my group. i had the opportunity to know him and work with him for over two years. beyond all the words that can be said about his political activism and his struggle to do good for people, what struck me, what helped me work with david, was his openness of heart. and that's not always natural in the environment that we're in. it's not always what we're looking for first. but when you get to open the pathway of the heart, there are many, many things that can be solved. david loved the people and the people loved him. i felt it again not later than a few days ago in rome, where i spent the weekend after the funeral on friday. i was walking down the street and i had the opportunity to hear next to me, in the restaurant or on the street, people who had david's picture distributed around the city by the democratic party, people who stopped and talked about david, who exchanged words about him. because david got into journalism because he loved people, because he loved to communicate things to people, and he did it with sincerity. that's probably one of the reasons he was so popular as a journalist. i'm sure he took the step into politics because he wanted to do even more good around him, in a very concrete way. he felt the need. that's what i felt when i worked with him. you know, we've had little time to work under normal conditions because the pandemic came. it is with david that we have fought together to keep this institution open, to make it work. david was very clear and very firm about this from the very beginning. but beyond any assertion of responsibility he had as president, he did not forget the people. and since we were not in the premises, he decided to open them to women who needed it and to people in need, and to make available the cars of the parliament to help people who needed it. it is always in this openness of mind, this openness of heart and this humanism which has not only been lived in thought and has not only been transmitted by words, but also by deeds and by facts. i think we have a lot to learn from these kinds of personalities that are sent to us. it's a bit of the angelic spirit that hangs around people, among the dying, a way through which life makes us feel that even when we assume responsibilities at the top of institutions, we must remain human, we must remain with an open heart. of course, we think a lot with our head, but often the right decisions are made with our heart. when a politician learns to work from the heart, the world around him becomes a better place. this is what david gave me during the more than two years i worked with him. i had the opportunity to feel the authenticity of this way of thinking and acting on friday, when i heard giulio and livia talking about their father: it was very clear to me that what david had in his heart, he knew how to pass on to his children. he also knew how to transmit it around him with the natural with which he lived his whole life, until the last moment. condolences, dear madam, condolences livia and giulio, and condolences also to lorenzo mannelli, who was at his side day and night while david was assuming his responsibilities here in this house. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, good luck to the french presidency of the council! mr president, you spoke of peace as a european promise. peace is the greatest achievement of our european union. for this we need a strong europe, united, a reliable partner in the world. but that's what's missing right now. we have no unified european response to russia's aggression on the ukrainian border. i believe that the most important task, or one of the most important tasks, of your presidency of the council is to ensure the unity of the 27 member states. the member states must agree on a line, a catalogue of measures, in relation to russia. only then can we be seen in the world, only then can we play a role. i found it shameful to note that the us and russia had negotiated the european security architecture over our european heads. a second topic i would like to touch on briefly is the issue of sustainability, which is also a priority of your presidency. sustainability, for me, means not living at the expense of future generations. and by that i mean our finances. we must not just leave debts to future generations. france has a public deficit of 115 percent, one of the highest in the eurozone. i believe we must return to sound budgets in the european union and in the eurozone. and i warn against loosening the stability pact. to go into debt at the expense of our children and grandchildren is the wrong way to go.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have learned that europe is credible in the eyes of its citizens if it becomes a means of changing people's lives for the better, and to do that it must have the instruments. in these dark years of pandemic europe has brought out the tools, including new ones, not previously foreseen. i am thinking of the joint vaccine purchase and distribution plan which you, president macron, mentioned but i am also thinking of the joint nextgenerationeu aid and debt plan. of course, all of this is not enough. it is therefore clear that we are looking very closely at the french presidency for six months, so that the work done so far does not stop, so that the instruments which have given hope and confidence to families and businesses in these months are not part of the emergency but of the new season which we want to continue to build. that is why we must first of all move beyond the old economic and fiscal rules, reform the stability pact and make nextgenerationeu a permanent instrument for the revival of europe. to return to the age of austerity and rigorism - as some in the council and here would like to see it - means to stop the enormous investments in a new model of growth which is more environmentally sustainable and more socially equitable, in order to build the kind of europe you have mentioned.
madam president, congratulations on your election. mr president, in 2017, a paris effect occurred. paris has put businesses on the path to sustainable development. the duty of vigilance law was an important step. now is the time to put these rules in place at european level to ensure the sustainable management of companies and their value chain. investors themselves are calling for clear and transparent rules on corporate sustainability. a systemic transformation is needed. is paris prepared to ensure that the brussels effect will now occur after the paris effect on sustainable business practices? will the french presidency make rapid progress on the upcoming sustainable corporate governance initiative?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. it is clear that progress and growth can only be generated by a reliable and affordable energy supply. that is an essential point. it is therefore particularly welcome that you, mr president macron, in contrast to many other heads of government, are facing reality and are clearly committed to modern nuclear energy. the only way to reduce the climate and at the same time ensure a high standard of living is to have reactors of modern design. this is a matter of common sense and we welcome it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they want to soften the maastricht criteria even further, to abolish them de facto. this is unacceptable, and i tell you, it is a macroeconomic mistake. i assure you that such plans will not create growth or progress but will lead the eu into another financial crisis. we should avoid that.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. a few comments on what you've said. first of all, it's time to stop using double standards and political blackmail. the double standards and political blackmail are disrespectful, unfair, illegal and seriously undermine european values. on the other hand, we must not and should not make everything a political, let alone ideological issue. moreover, the pursuit of ideological exclusivity, which is represented by the slogan of liberal democracy, is contrary to the fundamental european values. third, reading in the dark and not washing enough doesn't make you green. it is not a question of ideology but of technology which form of energy supply is green and sustainable. without nuclear energy, ambitious climate targets cannot be met. and last but not least, we protect the external borders. you don't have to let everyone in. in no way should they put pressure on others to make the same mistakes by allowing in illegal immigrants en masse.
madam president, your excellency, mr president of france, your excellences, i begin by saying loudly that romania owes france an enormous debt since the 19th century, from the historians edgar quinet and jules michelet, friends and supporters of romania, to napoleon iii, without whom we would not have had a dynasty. without france, romania's modernity and modernization would have lasted longer. we are grateful! general henri berthelot called romanians family and helped reorganize the romanian army, and that helped us save not only our territory, but our national identity. for the past two decades, france has been the permanent advocate of romania's eu accession. thank you for your support! mr. president, you are interfering once again in our history! owe us again! continue the tradition of friendship between our countries and become the advocate of romanians for joining the schengen area! romania has fulfilled all the technical conditions for accession since 2011, but is stuck on incomprehensible political criteria, practically held at the schengen door. unfortunately, this unfair situation towards romanians accentuates the virulence of extremist demonstrations in my country. until last year, romania was the positive exception, with no parliamentary formations hostile to the european union. today, things are unfortunately changing. situations seen as unfair, like this one, are fueling anti-western rhetoric. romania is becoming a testing ground for extremist anti-european populism, for anti-semitism. we, the romanians, ask for your support and count on it! be our elder brother, as your country has been to us throughout history, in a europe of values and solidarity... (president interrupts speaker).
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first and foremost, i would like to thank all the honourable members and president macron for what was really a very rich debate with very detailed answers and reaction, and, i think, a thorough testimony to european democracy. if you look at the number of topics which we’ve been discussing today, ranging from the hard security challenge to the east of our borders, to issues of social fairness, economic and climate policy, and migration, down to the economy and the need for strategic autonomy, all this just testifies to what kind of crucial times we are living in, and in what kind of a crucial time, mr president, your presidency is arriving to head the european union. therefore, allow me just one personal point on the issue of where we are now, and where we were five or six years ago, because sometimes i think it’s worth remembering how it was. i remember it very vividly because, at that time, we were very worried – also in this house – that an anti—european wave could be sweeping across our countries, across our european union. we were worried that we would have more exits from the european union, and we were very concerned about the possible weakening of european cooperation. i have to say, mr president, that your commitment to europe, your commitment to france, to the people of france and to european countries, presented to the tune of the european anthem in paris, changed the mood. i would say that it changed the political course – and we know how badly we needed it at that time – because it brought us new ambition, new courage, new hope and new determination to build a europe which would be stronger and better prepared for future challenges. i think the debate this morning focused on how we can do that. i’m glad that many honourable members have been very fair, because a lot has been done. we have never had such a transformative budget and transformative funding as we have with next generation eu. we have clearly demonstrated that when it comes to vaccination, europe – if it pulls as one – can really deliver what i would describe as miracles. just let’s remember where we were a year and a half ago and what kind of dramatic debates we had in this house. we adopted a commitment to be the first continent in the world to be climate neutral, and we are working a lot and delivering in the area of defence. we are working a lot on strategic autonomy. thierry breton sits with us all the time. he’s doing a lot of work on new technologies. something i am very glad about is that we are focusing much more on the future of europe than we have done in the past. so what i would like to conclude on is that i agree with all those honourable members who are very clearly demanding – and rightly so – that we should do more, that we should deliver it faster, and that it should be more actionable and more results—oriented. the question is, of course, how to do that. i’m glad to say that a lot of the proposals which address the core issues and which have been repeated in the interventions of many honourable members, are addressed in the proposals that have already been put on the table by the european commission. what we need – and here i totally agree with mr verhofstadt – is unity. we need a close collaboration and cooperation with the european parliament and we need ambitious presidencies. mr president, i think that you represent such an ambitious presidency, a presidency which is focused on strategic delivery, on the future, and which is committed to concrete results. i would just like to say, on behalf of the commission, that we are ready to work with you as closely as possible, hand in hand, because the success of your presidency will be the success of europe, it will be the success of france, and therefore we should focus on close cooperation and close coordination as much as possible.
acting president of the council. madam president, i will in any case try to come back to the main points that have been raised and thank you very much to all those who have spoken. i just want to maybe clarify something first. i have never opposed love of europe to love of a national identity or a culture, but i have resolutely distinguished between those who love their culture or their country and the nationalists who want to break up europe, yes. i am surprised that two members of a political family which seems to me to be part of a majority which believes in europe and in the identities and cultures of each country, but which is resolutely fighting against nationalism, which is bringing war back here, do not make this distinction. and so i think we should be careful of any confusion. yes to a european will, but a will which you have always heard me defend here, one which respects cultures and identities but is firm in its principles, that is to say, one which fights against the divisions which lead to national egoism and which would make history stutter. that's just the distinction i made. and if there were no political forces in our countries speaking out on this point, i could hear you. but who did the french, five years ago, choose in the second round of the presidential elections? what two political forces were in the lead in the election of the european women in france? i'm just saying that because you're both french. exactly the ones that represent that cleavage. i am not only stating and naming, but also naming a split which has been expressed today, with women and men who are, in several european countries, of a political conviction that refers to nationalism. and i've always made this distinction between love of identities, cultures, patriotism, which is not nationalism, and the retreat into the latter. i wanted to make that distinction. just as you have never heard me, mr president, deny the european roots, including the christian roots, i have always claimed them, in their entirety and in their development. i just try to go this way from start to finish and keep it whole. i believe in a european civilization, i believe in the strength of our cultures. i always try to defend them very strongly and you've both said words. words have meanings, and i just wanted to make sure it wasn't distorted. i would simply like to remind you that french industry has been destroying jobs for 12 years. we had been declining, but since 2019 it has been rising. just to, again, simply clarify some facts. and finally, i would simply say that the temporary reopening of two coal-fired power stations - two being permanently closed, which means that between 2017 and today there are two thermal power stations that have been completely closed and two that have been temporarily closed - is due to the delay in the flamanville deadline which are linked to additional constraints. again, these are merely factual elements that i wanted to restore. let me address a few points that have been raised by several of you. the management of the pandemic has led most european states to resort to mechanisms, some of which are emergency states, some of which are special laws, some of which are special arrangements for our ways of functioning. in all the european states this has been done under the control of the judge, under the control of the constitutional judge, in a debate in parliament and under the control of the european judge. please don't confuse the management of the sanitary or whatever with the rule of law issues that are asked elsewhere. if you take the case of france - i'll defend the government's action - by law, it's the competence of a national defense and security council to deal with a pandemic. i refer you to french law. this has resulted in a dozen or so texts being brought by the government before parliament, which has exercised its right of amendment, and which has been submitted to the constitutional judges on each occasion. those who love europe and defend it, defend it with rigour. you have lacked rigor in this case and i simply wanted to make this distinction. yes, i defend the rule of law, including in our country, and, from where i am, constitutionally, i have that responsibility. i was then asked about the issue of journalists, which was important and which i want to return to here to make a quick review of what happened and of the attacks that several journalists suffered. first, we want to move forward on a framework to secure our journalists, precisely in the context of procedures against all these forms of intrusion, and for the quality of information. part of the platform regulation is going to allow that. but there's also the journalistic background that's going to help us move forward on this issue. we are convinced that a european fund for supporting independent and investigative journalism is an element which will make it possible to complete the regulatory work carried out by the commission and which, for some, will be before your parliament in a few days' time and which will enable us to improve both our collective organisation and the alert systems, but also the investments necessary for this better protection. we are very clear that we want to strengthen both the independence of our media and the means of protecting ourselves against any form of intrusion such as we have experienced and which, unfortunately, we know, we may continue to experience. then you asked me about the secondary work, sometimes to say that we had done nothing. and so i shall try to restore the truth, including the current path. we collectively carried out a reform of the posting system in 2017 which allowed the limitation of a posting to 12 months, which was not possible before, the fight against letterbox companies, which is also a real advance against the excesses of the posting system and a principle, here too, of equal pay for the same work in the same place, which avoids using the posting system to make illegal competition. these three advances are considerable and represent a real change in the organization of our europe. is secondment, as you seem to be saying, mr president, by definition bad? firstly, this is the very heart of an integrated market. secondly, i would ask you to consider that france is one of the main countries sending workers on secondment. i still find it difficult to understand how we would defend ourselves against our own posted workers, living and working in other countries, by fighting the posted workers who come to us. that is where nationalism ends and, in my view, is less effective than a well-understood defence of the interests of each individual, but through european cooperation. the question of social contributions is one we have not yet dealt with. and indeed, this subject is being negotiated with the revision of regulation 883. an agreement was within reach at the end of 2021 and one of your colleagues asked me to do so. i totally share your ambition. an agreement was within reach, so by the end of 2021, but it was blocked on the subject of ratification of the secondment and compensation for unemployment benefits. and so, that's what we're going to try to get moving so we can get back to work and get a conclusion. we are in favour of this and will do our utmost to get it, because i think it is an extremely important completion of this reform. the question was then asked several times about the duty of vigilance. thank you for reminding me - and i say this with all the more humility because it was the previous mandate, through what was called the pottiez law, that allowed france to have a permanent system in 2017 - that france has a surveillance system. we are in favour of europe having a comparable system. we want the commission to be able to make its proposal as soon as possible. i know that she is working hard on this and so the commission's proposal is expected in the coming weeks. it will make it possible to establish obligations at european level for european companies along their value chain, concerning respect for human rights and the environment, which will allow me to return to another question raised later, and companies will be subject to a reporting obligation. we therefore want the commission's proposal to be made as soon as possible and to be able to move as quickly as possible between the various institutions. we are also keen to see progress in other areas. i do not want to forget the importance of extra-financial reporting by companies and investors, which will also help to establish real standards of accountability. the trilogue often begins in the first half of the year. it is an extremely important element which will also allow us to achieve very concrete results and is totally in line with what you have mentioned. i also wanted to return to the fight against tax evasion. you have mentioned this and the fact that we will of course be taking forward the work that has been completed in the oecd framework on the minimum taxation of multinationals. and we are hopeful that we can get all the agreements and in the next few weeks we can finish this work. i share the ambition that has been raised here. i was then asked about schengen. the european union has also made a major contribution to the process of european integration. they have prepared for this, and all the member states have acknowledged this. and this process must go hand in hand with the reform which we are about to launch in a few weeks' time, which we have undertaken and which will also guarantee the protection of all external borders. on this schengen issue - i want to make this clear - on the one hand, there are elements in the commission's december report which make it possible to improve the functioning of internal borders, which respond to the points you raised, mr president, earlier. we are anxious to complete this subject thoroughly. i would like to reiterate that we are willing to move forward on all these points, as i said earlier. we have to take on board the community instruments we have, such as frontex and common rules. and also assuming that we have a more cooperative intergovernmental policy with the idea of an intergovernmental border intervention force. and by completing a system of cooperation which, by definition, remains intergovernmental, in accordance with the law, and i have removed all ambiguities earlier, but which alone allows for a more efficient return to the countries of origin. it is quite true that we are not collectively effective enough in this area today. i believe that europe and this reform will be the way to achieve this. i was then asked about russia, and i think i answered that earlier. i think our credibility vis-à-vis russia is first and foremost to engage in a demanding dialogue. and we see this, by the way, when we look at the dialogue that the united states of america and russia are having. i think it is quite right that there should be coordination between europeans and americans, but it is quite necessary that the europeans should have a dialogue for themselves. it is true that our collective security, the issue of armaments on our soil or at our borders, is a matter for us. so we must complete a common proposal and a common vision, and that is precisely the new order for our europe of security and stability that i have mentioned. secondly, we must also work collectively on the elements of vulnerability that are ours, as many of you have mentioned. because the credibility of this response requires a certain co-dependency which allows for the strengthening, if i may say, of cooperation on both sides, but which avoids vulnerabilities. on topics, especially energy, migration, it is important. we've done this in a reactive way in the last few months, but we've seen how russia or neighboring powers could use what we've called hybrid attacks, but these are organized immigration disruptions or cyberattacks, or gambling on the price of gas or the supply of gas to destabilize us. and so, on this point, we need to build collective resilience with clarity. i want to reassure one of you here on the subject of farmers or rural people. i do not think for one moment that they have nothing to do with the europe we are talking about and i would not like to see them opposed here. on the contrary, i think that when we talk about our common agricultural policy, our farmers on the ground know how much they need europe and that it is thanks to this european policy that we can make progress. and we also know collectively that, being connected, the solidarity investment policy that we had during the crisis is the one that also allowed them to develop in the same way. these policies, which are ours, which are articulated in a european manner, which enable these large investments in infrastructure and mobility, europe contributes a great deal to this and i do not want to forget that here. many of you then spoke about the reform of our macroeconomic policy. moreover, there are differences which are the result of the political styles and sensibilities which have had to be expressed, including with regard to france, some advocating a very strong opening up and a new policy, reinventing or leaving out categories of expenditure from our current spending rules, others advocating a return to budgetary rules which prevailed before. firstly, as the president of the council for this semester, i do not want to prejudge the debates we are about to have. i simply want to put it in terms, again to clarify some of the facts. as far as i know, there has never been a cult, a myth or an objective of zero debt or zero deficit in our texts, not least because in the current interest rate environment this would be counter-cyclical macroeconomically. secondly, i would also like to reiterate that france, before the crisis, reduced its public deficit, as many have mentioned, by exiting the excessive public deficit procedure where it was in 2017, it reduced it massively while lowering taxes and carrying out reforms. i therefore share the magic potion that was expressed earlier, especially since we have been doing it and have continued to do so during the crisis by introducing a reform of unemployment insurance that no one else had done, even without this crisis. so i share this advance and i share this philosophy and i will not allow france to be caricatured, because all this is the result of the efforts of the french and their commitment. now, can we get out of this crisis and go back to exactly the same situation? first of all, we have to look at the fact that in this crisis, collectively, we have diverged much less than in the previous crisis, and i want to emphasize that point. whereas in the previous financial crisis, which then became a sovereign debt crisis, we had a breakdown of our europe, we all had a policy of investment in solidarity, in almost all countries, regardless of political sensitivities. these policies are being evaluated, and for those who are concerned about france, and i thank them for that, a nobel prize winner in economics has had the opportunity to express himself in recent days to say that in his view, french policy was probably not the least good. we have had a policy on this subject which has never been seen before, where we all invested to support our economies and where our europe invested by taking on debt together with the prospect of its own resources to move forward. and i think that was the right policy. because the different policy is the one we had together at the time of the financial crisis. we have left it to the national level to make adjustments. we let the eurozone fracture. it took a long time to get the right monetary response and we did not have an articulation of our budgetary policies. what happened? what happened? europe took much longer than the united states to recover from this crisis, even though it was not the cause of it. it has weakened its productive capacity and it has alienated, diverged its economies. that's not the case with this crisis exit. france, moreover, has already regained its pre-crisis figure in terms of gross domestic product. so i defend the policy that we have collectively pursued in the wake of the crisis. i do not want to prejudge these debates, but i would like us to look at them in the light of the strategy which we all have advocated, whatever our sensibilities. we are all saying: we must invest in climate change. and everybody says it's reforms, regulations, bans. and they say it's not about reforms, but about regulations. there may be disagreements about the pace or the magnitude, but each time we have to invest. invest in innovation, in the transformation of production chains, in the support of certain territories, in the support of the most rural territories, of the middle or popular classes to whom constraints are imposed on displacements sometimes suffered. all of this requires a joint investment. to have this more technological europe, we need joint investments, whether european or national. to have this europe of defence that is even stronger - and i agree that it must go even further - requires investment, which is not being carried out in the same way by the different member states. greece bears a large share of european expenditure, whereas some of us are far from 2%. but it is the collective security that is thus carried. we must also look at the budgetary terms. so yes, i am in favour of having a common analysis of the investments we need. what are the private sector investments? some of what i'm talking about may be in the private sector. taxonomy, by the way, is helping. there's another part. if we want to move fast enough, if we want to meet commitments or follow-up, we need public investment. and so, this mass of public investment, if we want to remain independent, ambitious on the climate, ambitious on the military, social, industrial level, we have to take it on. are they community-minded? are they national? it is a debate we must have and when we do we must have the right instruments. and it is in the light of this debate that we must come out with two facts. a new macroeconomic policy, yes, where we will have to treat these priority investments across all these major segments, either at community level or at national level, in a different way. but in any case, we must find the means to finance it, whether at community level, through new own resources which will gradually finance these new investments, or at national level, but with sufficient time. because our generation, as we all know, has to finance a historic change on many of these issues. i was also asked about multilingualism and regional languages. you have a strong supporter in the french foreign minister. i would like to say first of all that we are committed to respecting multilingualism, first and foremost in the european institutions. i want to say it again here, especially in defence of the french language. and i would not like us all to fall into the habit of forgetting, even with brexit, what our europe was founded on and this respect for different languages. you're the perfect example of that. secondly, yes, i think our regional languages have a place, mr president, you asked me to do that. i am not entirely sure that i share your interpretation of court decisions and i do not want to interfere in a spanish debate, but i want to say that we have our constitutional constraints, but we are concerned that regional languages are respected. this does not detract from the strength of french, which is the only official language, but through education, and precisely through the voluntary policies which we must continue to support, it is important to enable regional identities to live and to progress. i am in favour of the idea that we can also have ambition on the south american continent. many of you have rightly asked me - and i forgot to mention this - that we should organise in may, with our spanish and portuguese partners in particular, an informal summit on the south american continent and our partnerships. and so, we are not forgetting this continent, you have reminded us of its importance. i was then and finally questioned on two final subjects. the first is joint military operations. perhaps i am surprised, mr danjean, by what you say, you who know this area so well and whose expertise i had the opportunity to contribute to the drafting of the strategic document which led to the french military planning laws at the beginning of my mandate. and you know, in doing so, oh how much and better than many here, france's commitment to itself and to europe. first of all, to say that, yes, we still have joint military operations together in the mediterranean, in the arabian gulf and in the sahel with the takuba task force. and so all of these operations, they are military operations. i would also like to stress here how much of this was done at the request of and in coordination with our greek friends, which allows me to say that we have never given up on turkey. and if there is a country that has risen in europe when provocations have taken place, it is france. but we've moved on to these surgeries. we also equip ourselves together, and this time in a totally new way. i think we should take it. i'm the first to say that it's not going fast enough on the rule of law for example. but in my defense, i believe what i said to you is true, because there is no going back, i just answered you to say that what you said was incorrect. we have also made progress on eutm operations again, and i welcome the commitment of the spanish, portuguese, italian and german authorities. we are also equipping ourselves together, particularly in the framework of the permanent structured cooperation which has been established in recent years and which has made it possible to move forward. i think of the essor software radio project, the twister project, and i'm through with it. we have set up a european defence fund with common principles and we have fought. i wish, as you do, that we could go much further, this is not the end of the game. and i am counting on your support, moreover, so that we can continue to tighten up the rules, so that these are indeed fully european purchases. but we are one of the main investors with this fund in research and technology in europe. so this fund is there and it's moving forward. the commission is working closely with it and we know how important it is. we have even developed a common strategic culture with the european intervention initiative proposed at the sorbonne, which has been joined by about ten countries. sorry, the facts are stubborn, they can be upsetting, i admit it. and we are going to complete, thanks to the work of the high representative, this strategic compass exercise which was launched under the german presidency. we also have a space defense strategy. i am thus confused about the plans, even if i may say that we can make a certain assertion, but here too, like you, i no longer believe in deeds but in words, and i believe more in facts and realities than in big words. finally, i was questioned on the question of china and the massacre of the uighurs. you have rightly referred to the massacres, mass deportations and forced labour. first of all, i agree with what you said about the courage and commitment of several brands that have made this happen. there is a framework for this in france, and we can welcome it. that's what allowed them to make it and wear it. secondly, as you know, france has always been very clear on bilateral matters. we have been very clear with chancellor merkel, president michel and president von der leyen on this subject and on making it a condition of the investment agreement. that is why i wanted to reply very clearly to your question and your commitment. let's say two things. firstly, there will be no investment agreement unless the international labour organisation conventions which prohibit and control forced labour and which prohibit forced labour are ratified. secondly, what has been said by several of your colleagues about the duty of vigilance is precisely the instrument which will enable us to implement what you call your wishes. i would like to make it very clear that i am in favour of this proposal being made as soon as possible and that it can be completed as quickly as possible. we have taken it to france and we are of course continuing to apply it. we want this to become a european regulation. it is precisely this framework that will make it possible to impose this constraint on our companies or to protect the companies that impose it. and the commission will, either in the context of this text proposal or on an ad hoc basis, ban the import of goods made on the basis of forced labour. in practical terms, this is what our europe must do. well, let's get to it! i know. that, ladies and gentlemen, is what i wanted to say in response to your questions, your remarks, your questions, to tell you how happy and proud i was to be here today in strasbourg, in this parliament which we hold so dear, as you do. and i would also like to thank you for always defending parliament in strasbourg. firstly, because it is the letter and spirit of our texts. secondly, because the europe we believe in is not a europe with a single centre, but a europe with many centres, with pillars in several countries. and so i think that the presence of the european parliament in strasbourg is important, as are the progress we have been able to make. i would like to thank all the staff of the general secretariat for the dialogue that has taken place in the last few weeks and months. you know that france invests in working conditions, we have set up new premises to allow you to work better, to be welcomed even better here. but we are committed to it, because i believe that europe is precisely the one that corresponds to the values we have been defending for some time. that's what i wanted to share with you. i believe, as you do, in a europe of ambition, but to do that we need a united europe. i also know that here, you know that, beyond the differences we have seen today and that we can have with each other, through debate, respectful dialogue, accepted controversy, we can build the right compromises, that is to say the ambitious compromises that allow europe to be built and to move forward. that is true unity, one that respects all differences. one that respects momentary disagreements, but seeks to build new agreements. thank you all. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i welcome the fact that the areas of defence and strategic autonomy are a priority for the french presidency. if we envision a truly strong and united european union, we must recognize that it cannot be achieved without strong defence and security. of course, there can be no credible and strong eu without a single defence policy, without a european army, without safeguarding our european borders and safeguarding the security and sovereignty of the eu member countries. however, let me note that it is unthinkable today that two eu countries, greece and cyprus, are threatened and their sovereign rights are violated by turkey, while the eu is unable to deal with turkish provocation. the european union has shown unacceptable tolerance up to now. we are now calling for sanctions against turkey.
in writing. for the next six months, france will hold the rotating presidency of the eu. president emmanuel macron, while speaking positively about enlargement, has unfortunately returned to his position of a few years ago that internal eu reform must precede the admission of new member states. this is unacceptable to us. internal transformation is a long process, and waiting for it would only mean that the candidate countries, and thus the region's frontrunner, serbia, could sit in the eu's lobby for years to come. the internal reform of the eu cannot be a condition for further enlargement! i believe that these two processes should not be consecutive but should be parallel. the previous rounds of expansion were not dependent on the previous internal transformations, and this one must not be any different. i call on the french presidency to seize this opportunity and take decisive steps to accelerate serbia's accession to the european union. this is as much in the interest of the european union as it is in the interest of serbia and the western balkans.
in writing. welcome, mr president macron, to the many points in your report presenting the programme of the french presidency, notably those aimed at creating a renewed and strong europe. however, it is important to keep in mind that a strong union is unthinkable in a continent hit by the coronavirus pandemic until the underprivileged, disadvantaged and excluded groups are given the attention they need. the last two and a half years have highlighted the reality of social poverty and the danger of vulnerability. as europe's largest minority, representation of roma communities is perhaps the most timely of these days. i ask the french presidency to give greater prominence to inclusion, representation and participation in its social programmes. a europe of hope can only be imagined with strong ethnic and national minorities, where member states are united by mutual respect, not by political differences, but by shared human values. the eu is also committed to improving the quality of life for all citizens, including those with disabilities, and to promoting the development of a culture of openness and transparency. in the spirit of inclusion, full equality for our roma fellow citizens in access to education, healthcare, housing and employment opportunities must be ensured. i therefore ask the french presidency to pay particular attention to ensuring the stable social position of european minorities, to extending their cultural and political rights and to increasing their opportunities. it's all in our interest.
in writing. the french presidency comes to the eu's helm at a critical moment, when reason, balance, vision, courage and firmness are needed. france has, i believe, the scope to bring about concrete results in a number of key eu cases. firstly, as rapporteur for the european parliament on the single european sky, i have high hopes for the negotiations i will be starting on this issue with the french representatives, especially as i know from the meetings i had in paris at the end of last year that those with whom i will be negotiating are well aware of the issue. on the other hand, i hope that france will speak with the international air transport association, of which they are members, and the main french companies that support ses. if we want to achieve the decarbonisation targets set by the european green deal, we cannot ignore the fact that the implementation of the ets will reduce emissions by 10%. i understand that france will not work very hard on the ff55 package, but even so i welcome the french presidency of the council's objective of persuading the member states to adopt a customs duty on the amount of co2 emitted to the atmosphere for the production of goods imported into the european common market, in other words, the implementation of the so-called carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam). i would also be pleased if france could achieve its objective of requiring member states' governments to subsidize certain industrial sectors so that they can compete with the giants of china and the usa. we are living through an exceptional period in the history of the eu and i hope that the french presidency, one of the eu's founding states, will bring this extraordinary european project back to the level of credibility it deserves.
in writing. i welcome president macron's important promise to protect european democracy. democracy and the rule of law are among the fundamental values of the european union, which all countries, including hungary, have accepted upon accession. yet, over the past decade, orbán's government has systematically dismantled the rule of law and ignored the democratic rights of citizens. i would like to call on the commission to apply the rule of law mechanism with immediate effect after the european court of justice rejects the actions against it!
in writing. france took over the presidency of the council of the eu and presented an ambitious programme to relaunch the european project and adapt it to the present requirements and context. i particularly appreciate the priority that france wishes to give to education and digitalisation, and i take this opportunity to reiterate the european parliament's explicit wish to see the european area for education implemented rapidly to ensure full recognition of studies and thus to be able to prepare a european programme for education directly financed from european resources. but for a resilient europe, education is a means. it's also important what we communicate. unfortunately in romania it is becoming increasingly difficult to explain to the population why we are not welcome in the schengen area, although we meet all the accession criteria. as a strong pro-european, i believe it is time for europe to become truly united and to make a decision to do so. i count on the support of the french presidency of the council of the eu, a friendly state of romania and a partner that has always understood the importance that my country has at european level. i have therefore sent a letter to president emmanuel macron and to the minister for european affairs, to which i hope to receive a positive reply as soon as possible.
in writing. a few days ago i had a meeting on this subject with the french ambassador to slovakia, pascal le deunff. i was particularly interested in the areas of digitalisation, the automotive industry, energy, the recovery plan and budgetary policy. we also want a safe, clean europe, and we also want to tackle the challenges of migration and the protection of external borders. it is important that the french presidency's activities be characterised by compromise between all the member states of the union. the agenda is to create a new european model of growth and innovation for the eu and the euro area. in the area of digital technologies, the presidency intends to focus on the economic regulation and accountability of digital platforms, in particular with regard to hate speech, also by using european legislation on digital services and markets (dsa and dma). i have every confidence that the french presidency will push for useful european solutions.
in writing. france's six-monthly presidency of the eu council comes amid a backdrop of overlapping crises (geostrategic, energy and health). eu citizens feel insecure at the most essential levels of life. the french presidency therefore has a difficult task, complicated by the internal electoral campaign. i appreciated the many priorities put forward by president macron in the european parliament plenary, but i think it would be desirable to focus on the main fronts of the moment: the ukrainian crisis, the omicron wave pandemic and the price increases of basic goods and services. the digital revolution is great, the fight against climate change is uplifting, but let's first lift europe out of the specter of war, poverty and infection! i was disappointed by the absence in mr macron's speech of any reference to the revision of the stability and growth pact and of any clear proposals on energy. i am surprised, however, by the idea that has been put forward, of a new architecture of order and stability in europe. we have an order based on principles and rules, we just have to defend it, not be ready to give it up in the face of threats.
mr wieland, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the online environment has been created and developed by young people who are driven by innovation, who have used their imagination and knowledge in a completely new field. the rapid evolution of this field from simple written communications to complex digital services to a real world that connects people, economic operators, institutions, social and political life around the world has only been possible because of the freedom of movement and innovation that young people have had, because it is truly a young field. it is necessary to impose certain rules. we need to protect consumers and all those who are online, but we need to take into account the specificities of this area and maintain a balance between the necessary rules and the freedom to innovate. as we have an innovative approach in the online environment, we need a flexible approach in the legislation in this area. we need to encourage the further development of digital services and ensure that people who start working in this field now have enough freedom to come up with new, innovative ideas that will move the world and our continent forward. while not a perfect piece of legislation, the dsa maintains the balance we need and will give us the tools to enforce user rights without holding back much-needed development.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, after more than 20 years since the e-commerce directive came into force, it is time for a new legislative package to regulate the online market. the digital domain has evolved and continues to evolve at an astonishing rate, and while the benefits of this rapid evolution are undeniable, we must be aware of the challenges and risks it can bring. that is why i strongly believe in the need for european legislation that is adapted to the times and protects the fundamental rights of all citizens of the european union. firstly, we must fight against illegal content online and defend citizens who become victims of crime by digital means, with a strong focus on protecting vulnerable groups, especially children. in this respect, we must always be guided by the principle that what is illegal offline must be illegal online. secondly, among the many aspects of this important regulation are the transparency and accountability issues that the large digital service providers have to demonstrate. we have digital service companies in the world that have market capitalizations that are larger than the gdp of many countries in europe and around the world, that have acquired self-regulatory powers that are too big for private entities. which is why we have to make sure the rules are followed by the strongest. it is also very important to ensure that european citizens are protected against disinformation on online platforms. disinformation is one of the greatest dangers facing european society today. that is why i believe it is time for the european union to respond in a tailored way, and the digital services act is key to that. the covid crisis has shown us all that the european union must adapt and respond in order to become a global leader ready for the digital age.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, since taking office in 2019, president tokaev has tried to open the country to democracy by initiating a series of reforms. initially, the demonstrations were massive but peaceful, triggered by the explosive increase in fuel prices, amidst the accumulated discontent of the population, both with regard to living standards and respect for fundamental rights. subsequently, administrative buildings were attacked by violent groups and the intervention of law enforcement, lacking the necessary preparation to deal with the events, generated an escalation of violence. the lack of confidence in the security structures led by former president nazarbayev and his cabal was likely to generate distrust in the will of these forces to restore constitutional order, which led to the call for the intervention of the collective security treaty organisation. it is premature to draw definitive conclusions about the events in kazakhstan. president tokaev announced a list of economic and social reforms that will be implemented in the coming period by the new government. even if he withdrew his troops, russia will demand to make the most of the fact that he saved the regime. the russian federation is in a position to note that after belarus, in kazakhstan, another former constituent of the u.s.s.r. on its border, the intervention of the army was necessary to quell the revolt of the population. russia risks paying a heavy price for its games of diminishing extraction and rising fossil fuel prices, and the price could be its own internal stability. china needs a stable kazakhstan that continues to supply cheap raw materials, and kazakhstan now needs to strengthen its economic and political relationship with the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of animals by road, by rail and by road. the fact that a balanced compromise has been reached is a result that many would not have expected in the 18 months of work. this is all it took to conclude that the farmer is not the european union's black sheep and that between doing nothing about animal welfare and completely banning trade in live animals there are plenty of middle ground options that are effective and do not end up destroying an entire sector. the compromise you're looking at today is exactly the right compromise, the middle ground between the status quo and the annihilation of the animal industry. the evidence is in this document itself: firm measures to increase animal welfare (president interrupts). the evidence for the balance of this document is therefore clear. it contains firm measures to increase animal welfare, harsh penalties for those who break the law, a return to an audit system in third countries to ensure that animals are treated according to european standards, a gradual transition to trade in value-added products, with financial support for those who want to give up transporting live animals. to not have that balance would be to go to extremes, and extreme measures don't work in politics, they don't work in everyday life, and they don't work in this particular case. recent history proves this. there have been states that have explicitly stopped transporting live animals only to find out soon that they have resorted to solutions, let's call them creative, so that in fact trade continues unimpeded by moving livestock to intermediate states before they are exported. and this third type has had a huge cost in animal welfare. at the same time, the idea of limiting the transport of live animals to eight hours, without taking into account the size and geography of each state, would be a violation of the rules of free trade and of the european treaties. the document itself is the first step towards revising the european regulation and raising the level of animal welfare during transport without destroying the sector and millions of jobs. the next step is for you, through the vote you cast, and the european commission, which i hope will maintain this balance.
in writing. the european union has the strictest animal welfare standards in the world, but these are not properly applied in all member states. it is important that animal transport meets the same standards throughout the eu, whether in poland, spain or belgium. this also means that there must be a predictable and clear legal framework for all parties involved, with a sufficiently long transitional period for adaptation. animals often experience stress during transport. that's why it's so important to ensure that the conditions are optimal. this includes the temperature, feeding and water for the animals during transport, as well as more streamlined procedures at borders and fast lanes to reduce transport times. transport of live animals should be a matter of course, but should comply with scientifically based and animal-specific animal welfare standards. we must also dare to look at alternatives, such as promoting slaughter on farms in order to limit the transport of live animals. this would benefit the short chain and create opportunities for slaughterhouses in combination with slaughterhouses. these are initiatives which must be able to count on european support and for which the european commission can allocate funds.
before i open the second round of voting today, i would like to give the floor to mrs cavazzini, pursuant to rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, who would like to speak on the referral back to interinstitutional negotiations of the report by mrs schaldemose on the digital services act.
we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting will take place from 1.45 to 3.00 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 4 p.m. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. (the sitting was suspended at 1.47 p.m.)
i would like to begin by apologizing to the commission and the council, and to the members present, for the delay. i was held up by a little mishap. (the sitting was resumed at 3.09 p.m.)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the council on post-pandemic employment and social recovery to empower young people in the eu by dragoş pîslaru, maria walsh, alicia homs ginel, elena lizzi, kim van sparrentak, elżbieta rafalska and leila chaibi, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o000077/2021 b90003/22) (2021/2952(rsp)) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on post-pandemic employment and social recovery to empower young people in the eu by dragoş pîslaru, maria walsh, alicia homs ginel, elena lizzi, kim van sparrentak, elżbieta rafalska and leila chaibi, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o000075/2021 b90003/22) (2021/2952 (((rsp)). i would remind members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words or acceptance of blue cards in any of the debates of this session. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
author. – mr president, commissioner jourová, secretary of state beaune, distinguished colleagues, i would like to thank you first for all of you that have chosen to stay in strasbourg on this late thursday afternoon to debate something that is an all truth a critical topic of the agenda of this plenary week: youth. it is an honour for me to be able to represent here today the voices of the many young people that i’ve met, talked to and above all listened to. in the past two years in negotiations for the recovery and resilience facility, during the eye summit here in strasbourg, within the conference on the future of europe, and many more other moments, having 2022 designated as the european year for youth feels for me, for them, as a rightful culmination of a long road. but it should be just the beginning. i consider this opportunity to ask the question to you, to the commission and to the council, their opportunity, and i can assure you, commissioner, president, that they are going to be listening very carefully to the answers that you will give. this is because young europeans are active and vibrant, and no matter what many may fear, they still have hope. they don’t need handouts and they are not helpless. young europeans only need the access and the opportunity to take the chances that they deserve, and all that access must be created now and those opportunities facilitated in the present in order to strengthen and deliver our common european dream and not to fall prey to the destructive, radical and nationalistic agenda. however, there are serious grave concerns about the future we dream of. covid and the pandemic, but not only, have made those opportunities fewer than ever before, and those windows for access narrower than ever. young people are twice as likely to be unemployed than other age groups and therefore more likely to be vulnerable to poverty. we ask young people to be brave, to endure, to study better, to study harder without human contact and remotely, to work hard and so often without pay or horribly underpaid. to push through all their fears, all their burnouts, their risk, the deprivation, telling them stories, how in our times everything was harder and they need to buck up. we clearly failed as a society to recognise just how hard it is right now for young people in europe. we push them over the edge and ask experience that they cannot get, and then we wonder why they are depressed. we discriminate based on age, gender and an array of other issues, and we often place in front of our youth more barriers than hopes, more asks than tells. and then we are shocked that the second cause of death for a young european was, in 2021, suicide. and still, we do not treat mental health seriously enough at eu member state level, and the risk that we face is not that of a lockdown generation, but that of a lost generation indeed. this is why myself, together with my colleagues from the committee on employment and social affairs in the european parliament, have prepared these key questions for you, but also drafted the resolution outlining the ways that we think should be the priority policies and topics for youth affairs in 2022 and beyond. and we believe europe can provide the right solution to empower its youth to have a better future, provided that all of us are working together cohesively, putting money and actions, you know, behind our words for this objective. we need to do, you know, everything from the start together with our young people. so how will you ensure that they are involved permanently and consistently in all decision-making moments and critical points in the policy design, monitoring, evaluation and impact assessment concerning them and not only? we have the young generation, next generation investment pillar in the rrf and in the national recovery plans right now and many other tools, investeu, esf+, but the question is how we will coordinate them all from a youth policy perspective, avoiding silo policies and ensuring coherence? a one-stop shop, one place where these opportunities can be found and coordinated, you know, and also the substantial usage of the funds for the young european. more on that. how will we ensure, how will you ensure, that the promise for what is called right now the reinforced youth guarantee will now be finally kept? and all member states have committed to it. so what are we going to do to deliver concrete results? at the same time, the union must now together and also at the level of member states tackle decisively the issue of mental health, admit we have a problem and as any suffering person does, seek help and try to get better. how you will create these opportunities for the prevention, treatment and the recovery of mental health issues for young people? so many of them generated by social ills. and i can go on and have questions about green and digital jobs, job market support, education, traineeships, microcredits and micro-credentials, mobility and so on. and our employment committee believes that all these things are not solely a public sector responsibility, and we must have permanent partners in the ngos and the private sector for that. lastly, i would like to pledge that we are not simply here to ask things and have a debate. our young people ask for solutions, and we have put forward such a solution. this house is united and committed to support our youth in concrete ways at eu level.
mr president, if 2022 is to be the european year of youth, it is very important that we explicitly and widely promote all that the european union offers to young people today. many young people have no knowledge of, or access to, the educational, cultural, social or employment opportunities that european union policies provide. that is why i believe it is essential to bring europe closer to each of them. moreover, the council should agree with the european parliament and strengthen youth initiatives. it is time for the implementation of the youth guarantee to be mandatory and not optional. as it stands today, the youth guarantee is failing in too many member states, and young people are not ensured a smooth transition to employment and are not sufficiently supported in the labour market integration process.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, animal welfare and farmer welfare are not negotiable nor are they antagonistic concepts, as some people have suggested, simply because animal welfare depends 100% on the farmer's ability to give it the highest possible standards of growth. these two concepts are interconnected and must therefore be treated simultaneously and with the same degree of care and responsibility. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to maintain its sales volumes in the union during the period considered. without a firm reciprocity clause in free trade agreements, the european livestock sector could be dealt a fatal blow, while 450 million european consumers risk eating cheap and badly. without such commitments and without strong support for the livestock sector, animal welfare would remain a long-awaited goal. i therefore urge you to support this report in negotiated form with my colleagues, whom i thank, because this report contains a strong message: animal welfare legislation must be revised urgently, but without detracting from the care given to farmers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that animals have an intrinsic value, independent of their usefulness to humans. they are sentient beings and as such cannot be subjected to degrading treatment that goes against their nature and objectifies them. animals are not just things. european regulations have allowed for a positive development in the way animals are treated in the european area. however, we can and must do more and better. as identified by the evaluation study on the implementation of european legislation, there are several issues that require attention and solutions. this is the case with the absence of provisions adapted to the needs of different species, the lack of harmonisation in the quality and availability of data, problems in the implementation of legal rules, and sometimes even cases of weak controls. these are problems we want to see addressed in the european commission's announced review of animal welfare legislation. ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that our collective ethics are also expressed in the way we treat animals.
mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. it is indeed positive that there has been an increase in public interest in animal welfare. the eu has a long history of animal welfare and, depending on the member state, is making good progress. of course, there's still work to be done. it would be absolutely essential that the eu also commits itself to the laws that already exist. this would ensure not only animal welfare but also fair competition in the internal market. for example, in the eu, chickens are still beaten with their beaks cut off and pigs are still tailed, despite the fact that this is prohibited by the pig directive, among other things. the new legislation must also take account of the profitability crisis of farmers, since only a profitable holding can invest in the tightening requirements in the desired way and with sufficient transitional periods. the welfare of the investments should also be reflected in the price of the products and in the producer's profit.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, in my view, the best incentive for improving animal welfare is simply financial incentives for farmers. not the injunctions and prohibitions that are so often proposed. and i hope that the european commission will ensure that the strategic plans which are currently being discussed in the commission include such incentives, both in terms of the so-called eco-schemes and in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. it is also necessary to support farmers' investment in animal welfare, because they cannot do it on their own. the second thing is the "field to table" strategy. it provides for short supply chains and this is the area to improve animal welfare, so process production close to where it is produced. and finally, thirdly, the issue of trade agreements. we have to be very firm here. it cannot be that european farmers meet certain welfare standards and that import agreements with third countries do not have such a condition as regards non-european farmers . the commission must be vigilant about this.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i’d like to welcome this report on animal welfare carried out by the committee on agriculture and rural development and thank the rapporteur and shadow rapporteur for the good work. it recognises the general high standard of animal welfare that exists across the eu. however, it is clear improvements can be made to bring about greater consistency across the union. this report recognises that any updated rules must be based on scientific data, impact assessments and a species-by-species approach that takes account of the individual needs. science rather than sentiment is key to a successful outcome, and it must be coupled with practical experience. we have to ensure that the least performing are brought up to standard, rather than setting ever higher standards for those who are endeavouring to comply. a voluntary labelling system champions those who deliver on best practice; making it mandatory fails to recognise their special efforts. the report recognises that changing practices designed to improve animal welfare come at a cost, and additional support must be provided outside of the common agricultural policy. the cap alone won’t be enough. farmers and consumers are at one in the belief that respect for animals and animal welfare is paramount and should be central to our farming practices.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, less than a month after the recommendations of the anit committee were adopted in this house, we are again discussing animal welfare, a sign of the union's attention to this challenge. animal health is our health, and our farmers and ranchers are aware of this interconnection. thanks to their efforts, the union is today a global leader in upholding the highest standards of animal health and welfare. but that is not enough, and that is why we are calling for stricter application of the rules in force by all member states, so that no farmer can be placed at a competitive disadvantage simply because he has taken care of his animals. it is now up to us to guide and encourage our farmers to make a further leap in quality in farming systems, which will benefit citizens and consumers and which will have to be defended at international level, ensuring full respect by our trading partners.
madam president, commissioner, animal health and quality of life is a subject that is increasingly high on the public agenda in europe, and therefore it is natural to review legislation to fill in the gaps but also to integrate scientific progress, but i would like to stress three things. first, we need better harmonisation of the application of this legislation at european level between member states. secondly, for these rules to be effective in the medium and long term, farmers need to be financially supported and here i expect to see the commission involved in the way member states implement their national strategic plans to financially support farmers. and a third thing, which is equally important, is that these rules will only be effective if we can work together to convince our trading partners to apply them, and that is why, in negotiating trade agreements, but also in relation to the world trade organisation, we have to take these things into account because otherwise they remain on paper in europe.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the european ombudsman is and should remain our natural ally in the fight for transparency, for high ethical standards and good administration in the eu. i would like to congratulate you, ms o’reilly and your office, for the work undertaken in 2020. under particularly difficult circumstances, you managed to continue working to safeguard our citizens’ fundamental rights. we appreciate in particular, the strategic work undertaken for evaluating the performance of the eu administration in the context of the covid—19 crisis. as you have rightfully emphasised, in times of crisis, the obligations of transparency are not diminished. abiding by them is even more crucial now in order to preserve citizens’ trust. we appreciate also the efforts to better inform the citizens about your mandate and to streamline the treatment of complaints, including in the framework of the strategy towards 2024. when it comes to defending the citizens’ rights, we have a huge task ahead of us. if we take the example of next generation eu, we need to ensure together better oversight on how these funds are used. 85% of citizens demand transparency and effective control on these funds, according to a special eurobarometer for september 2021. i, myself, included such provisions in the text and i am counting on you and all our colleagues from all the political groups to fully support this approach.
madam president, i would like to thank madam ombudsman for her commitment to achieving the highest standards of good administration within the eu institutions. i am glad to see that the activities of the european ombudsman gain more and more visibility. you updated and made the communication channels with the public more effective. i also applaud your engagement towards multilingualism, including irish. it is of utmost importance that we reach citizens so that they know about their rights and about what we can do for them. as regards some proposals in the reports we are about to vote on, i am worried to see that several paragraphs aim to change the role of the ombudsman office and maintain recommendations that do not fall under its competences as set out in the statutes. i believe that we must act based on democratic principles and rules and that we should not lay on the ombudsman roles that are clearly played by other institutions, such as the commission, the european anti-fraud office (olaf) and the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo). as regards transparency, i believe that improvements in this field are to be welcomed, for example, when minutes of the council meetings are published. but we also have to acknowledge that we must leave room for an efficient political process, for reasoning, for negotiation, reasoning in our institutions. dear ms o’reilly, please allow me to wish the office of the ombudsman a further successful 25 years, and you can count on our support also in the future.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear vice—president, honourable members, dear rapporteur katalin cseh, it appears europe’s cities are on the front lines: on the front lines of the current health and economic crises, on the front lines of the recovery, and key foot soldiers in the coming green and digital revolution. so this report is timely and valuable. my thanks to the parliament and the rapporteur. we agree with you on the importance of digital transformation and that smart city strategies can help us create more inclusive cities, especially in an increasingly digitalised world. today, two in three people living in cities have access to high-speed broadband, as the eighth cohesion report states. we must ensure that, when it comes to digital public services – education, administration, for example – there is also wide access to such digital services and that no one is excluded. so we very much agree, too, on the importance of inclusiveness. this is deeply rooted in cohesion policy through the partnership principle – local actors helping to design and deliver local projects. as regards direct support, cities under the 2021—27 cohesion programme period, 8% of the european regional development fund, so around eur 17 billion, are ringfenced for sustainable urban development projects selected by the cities themselves. and our new european urban initiative will finance experiments in making urban development more sustainable and more participative. we hope that the new european powerhouse initiative aiming for inclusiveness, sustainability and aesthetics in the places where we work and live will also be of interest to cities, and i hope that we will see cities embark on this transformational challenge as well. in this context, i cannot speak of inclusive cities if citizens do not have quality, affordable housing. the commission’s renovation wave and the affordable housing initiative will support local actors in their efforts to increase energy efficiency for a fairer transition. inclusive cities also have high-quality public spaces that are safe. this requires good urban planning and design, urban policy for the common good, as set out in the new leipzig charter. as you know, we in the commission subscribe to this charter. we agree, too, that future cities must be sustainable. i have already mentioned the ring-fencing for sustainable urban development within cohesion policy. as you know, the eu supports cities through various other initiatives, including the intelligent cities challenge, the urban mobility framework, the 100 climate neutral and smart cities by 2030 mission or learning cities to ensure cities are sustainable, resilient, innovative and inclusive. finally, the report calls for tailor—made policy initiatives. we agree that cities cannot face these challenges alone. we must mobilise all levels of government. we welcome your reference to the urban agenda as a new model of multilevel governance. our europe act programme will continue to support this with exchanges of good practice and capacity-building. the next cities forum in early 2023 will mark and amplify this new wave of support for cities. the next few years bring a once—in—a—generation investment, the combination of enhanced cohesion policy, the recovery and resilience facility and other funding sources under the eu budget. let us work together to make the most of these investments. europe’s cities have a bright future. your report illuminates the next step.
in writing. as the epp group responsible for this resolution, i first highlighted that post-covid economic recovery and urban development will be considerably hampered by rising energy prices. i have therefore asked the commission to take measures to strengthen the resilience of the european energy market, to reduce its dependence on external factors and to ensure energy at reasonable prices. in addition, i have called for the encouragement and funding of massive building insulation and rooftop solar programs to increase the energy autonomy of public and private buildings. good administrative and territorial organisation is a basic pillar of urban development and resilience in critical times. in the eu, we have many cities that do not have enough revenue of their own to ensure that they function properly and provide quality public services to their residents. at the same time, their ability to attract european funds or investment is limited, and they are doomed to underdevelopment and depopulation in the long term. one of my priorities in the report adopted today was therefore to ask the european commission to make recommendations on administrative-territorial organisation and reform and to encourage eu countries to exchange good practice in this regard.
in writing. – urban areas are facing a triple crisis in the wake of the pandemic: tackling the health impacts of covid-19; dealing with the climate and ecological emergency; and addressing social and economic inequality. despite these challenges, cities have the potential to become a major driving force for a green and just recovery in europe – if they are actively involved in the decision—making process from the beginning. although it is too early to know what the longer—term legacy of the pandemic will be for urban environmental sustainability, it is clear the unprecedented eur 1.8 trillion stimulus package agreed by the eu will reshape cities in fundamental ways. the infrastructure investment will play an important role in stimulating urban economic activity after the crisis, creating an opportunity to align the recovery with climate, environmental and social equity agendas in cities. the key opportunities for a green and just recovery are found in the following sectors: rethinking urban mobility (implementing green mobility strategies and investing in green transportation infrastructure) and land use; modernising the urban building stock; enhancing the role of green infrastructure and nature—based solutions; and transforming urban food systems and the circular economy.
madam president, commissioner, in recent weeks the french presidency of the council of the european union has proposed the reform of the schengen area and the creation of a specific council modelled on the euro area. before we discuss this, it is important to talk about the expansion of the schengen area, more specifically the completion of the process of romania's accession to this free movement area. our country has met and has been meeting all the technical criteria for many years. we are de facto part of all the schengen area-specific mechanisms, but we do not benefit from equal treatment, whether it is romanian citizens or access to goods from romania on the european market. we don't ask for a gift, we just ask that european norms and the rights of romanian citizens be respected. that's why we launched the european campaign "romanians deserve schengen" to ask european leaders and national governments to vote this year to welcome romania. tensions on europe's eastern border reinforce the need to strengthen the union's cohesion, and romania's accession to the schengen area becomes essential for the protection of common borders and the safety of citizens.
madam president, the women of afghanistan are asking the question, ‘why are you starving us and our daughters in the name of women’s rights?’. this is because this is not a humanitarian crisis caused by conflict or by climate or by a natural disaster, as david miliband told the senate foreign relations committee last week, this is a catastrophe of choice. it is as if it was designed by the western governments that first abandoned the afghan people to the taliban and now abandoned them to hunger and starvation. i have written to the minister of foreign affairs in ireland to ask him to raise this issue as a priority in the european foreign affairs council, and i have asked him to condemn in unambiguous terms the decision of president biden to steal afghan assets for the benefit of 9/11 victims. it is shameful and i would urge all meps to raise this with their ministries. i was briefed by an ngo last week, and all of their female staff that they spoke to were asked if they had been victims of increased gender-based violence. all of them raised their hands, and i can’t provide them with an answer. why are we starving them and their daughters in the name of women’s rights?
madam president, i fear a collective laziness is creeping into this house. it is now almost two years since the european parliament was subject to covid restrictions. we understood the situation, however, we now see covid on the decline, member states getting rid of restrictions and many colleagues in national parliaments fully back to work. not the european parliament, where some colleagues even say, ‘i want to keep remote voting and hybrid debates’. madam president, a parliament is more than voting and reading out statements in front of a screen. it is about debate, about meeting our colleagues and our voters in parliament, face to face. that is something you cannot do from the couch in your living room. according to my book, you either show up to work or you don’t. most people in this parliament show up every day: the cleaners, the ushers, security guards and the people working in restaurants. do you think they can say, ‘from now on, i will work remotely’? they cannot. nor can we. so, president metsola, i call on you: let’s get back to work.
madam president, portugal has been experiencing a worrying situation of weather drought since november. the consequences are expected to be diverse, ranging from supply for human consumption to agricultural production or hydroelectric power generation. the impact on farms in various regions of the country puts the need for irrigation, with the inevitable increase in production costs, in the context of the rise of other factors such as energy and fuels, and the crushing of production prices and reduced incomes. immediate measures and support are needed for the sectors affected, in particular small and mediumsized farming. but mitigation is not enough. preventive measures are needed, including means to enhance water storage capacity, adaptation in productive activities, associated with the definition of water use criteria, which ensure public supply for human consumption, public health, the preservation of income, the safeguarding of means of production and the security and maintenance of water reserves.
i have to say, madam president, mrs von der leyen, instead of explaining to us here in the debate called by parliament your continued failure to enforce the rule of law mechanism to protect democracy in poland and hungary, you had originally decided to visit the company biontech in marburg. i would like to ask you again to refer to article 45 of the framework agreement on relations between parliament and the commission. the commission that's you has been asked to give priority to participation in parliamentary meetings over competing events. this also applies to courses in secondary education, democracy for beginners, hairdressing appointments or pharmaceutical parties. and the next billion-dollar contract with pfizer, you can negotiate it again by text, but afterwards, you know, don't forget to delete it, wink-smiley.
madam president, thank you, i have chosen this evening to speak on a subject that dominates the front pages of newspapers around the world and that negatively affects the lives of all citizens. the energy crisis in europe forced fertiliser factories to reduce their production and inevitably led to higher prices. as a result, we have very high costs for setting up farms, which leads to farmers being unable to do their job. the increase in energy prices generates price increases along the entire supply chain, directly affecting not only farmers but also consumers. in this context, i would point out that in the future there may be a severe food crisis and unimaginable increases in food prices. the european union, working with the member states, must come up with solutions and financial support for farmers. they must be able to continue their work and maintain their ability to produce food at prices that are affordable to consumers.
madam president, it is now more than three years since i accompanied a group of asturian workers to the court hearing in rotterdam on the closure of a plant in asturias and also in galicia (in the case of asturias, with more than 250 workers). since then, until now, everything has happened: fraudulent sales, new owners without any kind of industrial program, seizure of assets... a process that is in the hands of the national court in spain. it has been a long agony and in these difficult moments, where there seems to be no way out, i want to show from this parliament the support, the affection, the closeness to those 250 families of asturians. and also to hope that a europe that cares for workers (the europe that protects) will also find ways of helping and supporting these workers.
madam president, i want to convey a message from the 400 ethnic hungarian citizens of transylvania. i am a romanian mp, but i am also from the hague, i am also european. they say: we want fair elections in the hungarian elections, where more hungarians in romania can vote. we oppose all forms of voter influence and against electoral fraud. the hate campaigns of the last decade have affected our social relations. there's no reason to be afraid. we refuse to be afraid of brussels, of george soros, of migrants or sexual minorities. we don't need politicians to protect us from them. ladies and gentlemen, hungarians are not anti-european, as mr orban would have you believe. they are our european brothers, my brothers in romania or outside. i'm not going to lie to you. said balla zsófia. as i live, so is my country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we now have four times higher energy prices and shrinking energy stocks, and this crisis in the european union has deeply affected vulnerable consumers and the european union's economy. that is why i believe that most member states look to the european union with great hope and expect immediate pragmatic and effective solutions. i think in the medium and short term, it's essential that the european union buys gas stocks for all the member states and we also have to think that the transition to green energy is essential, but before we give up what we have now, we have to be prepared for this step, so that it doesn't produce the shocks that we are experiencing these days, because they produce real drama among the citizens of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, in the context in which we live, when in many european cities citizens are in the streets, i could not choose but to talk about human rights and, yes, the rights of the child. commissioner, i do not think the european institutions can be happy and i do not think they can be satisfied with the level of compliance with our regulations. we have human rights regulations, we have child rights regulations, but they're being flagrantly violated, and this is where we are! commissioner, i think this is a moment when we all need to reflect on how we can implement what we are regulating, and i will give you just one example. during the pandemic -- and colleagues have spoken here before -- many states have disproportionately restricted, violated the regulation that we voted on here, and from a child rights perspective, children have started to be abducted by state institutions, as happened to children in romania, in finland, in sweden, now in denmark, parents arrested. i don't think there's a greater love than a mother's love, and i think you have to revisit, you have to look at what's happening with these institutions and what's happening with human rights. i had a minister of justice in my country who said, "human rights are a luxury". i hope the european union does not adopt this dictum.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we are 27 member states in the european union and, although we still have borders, european citizens can choose to live, work and contribute to the development of the european union in any of the 27 countries. millions of european citizens, millions of romanians have made their mark in countries other than the one in which they were born, and decades later, their soul is bound both to the country in which they were born and to the new country in which they live and work. so it is natural that they want to be full citizens of both states, and yet, even though we have established that we are a family, even though we have established that between us, the 27 member states, there are special relations, we still have some states that refuse dual citizenship. i think we must also take this matter seriously in this parliament and try to create a real sense of belonging to a great european family for all our citizens, wherever they are in the union.
the rapporteur. (opening of the debate) ... of the amendments, i ask for referral back to committee to open interinstitutional negotiations.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, it is a great pleasure to be here with you today. the european parliament and the special committee on beating cancer (beca committee) have played a crucial role in this journey since we took the very first steps towards europe’s beating cancer plan over two years ago. we are determined to successfully tackle cancer, to strengthen prevention, treatment and care, to eradicate inequalities, to improve research, and to make a concrete difference to the lives of citizens by working together. for many of us, this plan, its prioritisation, its implementation, its every action, is also personal. we have each been touched by cancer in different ways. personally, in our families, in our friends, our colleagues, and now, we have an opportunity, an opportunity with this plan, europe’s plan, to make a real difference. i am particularly grateful to the members of the beca committee, the rapporteur mep véronique trillet-lenoir, and the shadow rapporteurs for their dedication and passionate work on the report. i want to thank you for the many extensive and constructive exchanges we had during last year. we share the same vision. this is the first time europe has a plan that has eur 4 billion allotted to it for its actions. a plan that looks at the whole picture. first of all, prevention – this is the most effective way to tackle cancer. we need to give citizens the tools and information they need to live healthier lives, and this is why we will update the european code against cancer, so citizens can have specific recommendations on how they can reduce their risk of cancer. we want to improve health literacy, achieve a tobacco-free europe, reduce harmful alcohol consumption, and improve health promotion. these are all achievable goals that will improve people’s lives and health in tangible and concrete ways. the second area that concerns prevention and where we will be working intensively this year is to update the recommendation on cancer screening. screening saves lives and we will make sure that citizens across the eu can benefit from our future eu-supported cancer screening schemes. early diagnosis saves lives – this is not a cliché, this is a fact. preventing cancer at the work place is key. today, 52% of annual occupational deaths in the eu can be attributed to work-related cancers. this is why we are particularly happy that in december we agreed on the fourth revision of the carcinogens and mutagens directive. this important step will help us to improve the protection of more than 1 million workers in the eu. another important goal of the cancer plan, reiterated also in your report, is to ensure that all patients across the eu, regardless of where they live, have access to quality-assured diagnostics and treatments. it is simply unacceptable that where you live in the eu determines your diagnosis, treatment and level of care. in this respect, at the end of 2021, we launched the eu network linking national comprehensive cancer centres, which will enable countries to work together to treat patients with complex conditions. only two weeks ago, we launched the cancer inequalities registry, an important tool to identify the trends, the disparities and the inequalities between member states and regions and to help us channel investments where they are most needed. however, high-quality cancer care relies on a high-quality workforce, and this is also highlighted in the beca report. the new inter-speciality cancer-training programme aims to deliver a more skilled and mobile cancer workforce through cross-border training and information sharing. the plan also addresses quality of life issues. social integration is crucial and i am very pleased that we will very soon present a report on fair access for those whose lives have been touched by cancer to financial services. this is a guide to our work on an important issue: the right to be forgotten, now recognised in many member states. today is international childhood cancer awareness day, and i pay tribute to those children, their parents, their siblings, their families, who go through this journey. to support the lives of the young people and the survivors whose lives have been touched by cancer, we have launched an eu network of youth cancer survivors to connect them and their families, as well as social and health professionals active in cancer prevention and care across the eu. these are just some examples of our recent and upcoming initiatives on the implementation of this plan, of our plan. honourable members, the cancer plan is continuously working in tandem with the horizon mission on cancer, ensuring coherence between ambitious research goals and realistic policy aims. as you highlight in your report, research and innovation has a crucial role in our fight against cancer. we have recently launched the first calls under the horizon europe programme, which will increase the understanding of cancer and support our initiatives on screening and quality of life. in the coming years, both initiatives will enhance research, innovation, data, digitalisation and new technologies. today’s discussion comes at a time when covid-19 has significantly impacted cancer care, delaying screening, delaying early diagnosis, postponing treatment and surgeries. this makes our plan, this makes a plan that is altogether our plan, and your report even more significant.we will also work hand in hand with this parliament to reach out to the citizens, who are at the very centre of this plan, to all the various stakeholders and to member states. the european parliament and the beca committee have an indispensable and irreplaceable role. this is our common journey, and like that of a cancer patient and their family, it is a long and it is a winding road. we will walk along together in order to deliver what european citizens rightfully expect from us, to make a real difference against the realities of this disease, to make a real difference.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. every one of us, when we talk about cancer, has a person in mind -- someone in the family, someone in the circle of friends -- who has had cancer or even died from it. in my case, it's one of my best friends, hans-jörg. she died agonizingly of cancer a few years ago at the age of 46, and i think that each of us, when we look at these images, has the goal of saving other people, other families from that fate. we cannot defeat cancer as the eu alone, but if we do not set the right course, we will not succeed - especially in rare cancers and in childhood cancers. researchers need to collaborate across borders, and in doing so, we need to roll out the red carpet for them, not put obstacles in their way, like we do with, for example, the implementation of data protection and other things. patients need help to go to a specialist in another country, not european or national bureaucracy. we have to do better than that. unfortunately, the report has been somewhat overshadowed by the debate on alcohol. there are also things that are being interpreted that are not there, but the scientific facts, we have to take them into account. véronique, the french minister for agriculture, said yesterday in the environment committee that the reference to the who was not necessary. véronique, it's good that he's in there, and the epp supports the passage. we shouldn't ignore the scientific facts. but above all we should vote together for this report. and if the arguments put forward are not enough, we should keep in mind the subject of childhood cancer. all the scientists say that we can only do this if europe works together, and there are important points in that. cancer is the leading cause of death in children after the age of one. and if there is no other reason to vote for this report, think of the children with cancer and their families. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the roads of humility. this is what a cancer patient feels like in the worst moment of his life: unworthy, humiliated. you got money, you get ahead. you don't have money, you wait, and maybe you're not there when you finally get your appointment. i come from romania, the country where when the doctor says, "you have cancer", a serious clock starts ticking fast, swallowing minutes and swallowing days, because in our country, cancer doesn't offer much hope to a patient. prevention is insufficient. treatments are expensive, diagnosis, late. why die of breast cancer in the 21st century when so many european women survive? just because you're bulgarian, because you're romanian or because you're polish? unfortunately, there are too many patients who are being overwhelmed by the medical system: they don't have medication, even the simplest of medications. patients are walking around buying their own pumps, buying their own cytostatics. added to their torment is the humiliation of running after something that cannot be found. we can't have some of us having it and some of us dying for days. europe is now investing €4 billion to help its member states beat cancer. there's money for prevention, for diagnosis, for treatment and recovery. i want to bow to two romanian women, carmen uscatu and oana gheorghiu, from the "give life" association, who built an oncology hospital themselves, using their society and its resources. and i want to bow to two european women, one who is a survivor herself and is in front of us and is the commissioner for health stella kyriakides, and another who is an oncologist, her name is véronique trillet-lenoir and wrote today's report. cancer patients are not just dry statistics: they are mothers, they are fathers, they are children and friends, they are my grandparents. but they are above all european citizens. we've managed, in a year, to find a vaccine for an epidemic we've never seen before. i believe we can find a cure for this deadly disease. one day we will beat cancer, i promise you that. why can't that day be today? because the sick only have today!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe we often proudly wave the flags of research and rights. well, here in the fight against cancer, we have an opportunity to translate these little words into tangible results, as this excellent plan shows us and proposes to us, a plan that we must approve and implement. commissioner, research means new and more effective early diagnosis capabilities, more treatment interventions, better medicines and innovative therapies, more personal means of rehabilitation. as mrs alessandra moretti said, there are survivors who need special care and attention, and there are survivors who need to be treated with care and attention. and then the rights. the first right is to health, which is the right to life, including a life that is wounded, crippled and painful. and then equal rights for all citizens of europe, whether they were born in milan or berlin or in some remote european city, perhaps the poorest, lacking services, hospitals, equipment. all european citizens, with the right to a homogeneous, equal network of services, aimed at the best that science and technology can offer. and then let me remind you of a priority of this parliament for years, that of attention to childhood cancer, and today is the international day against childhood cancer. commissioner, i would ask you to stop reading and listen. childhood oncology is a priority!
president. - first of all, i would like to thank and congratulate my colleague, mrs véronique, on behalf of renew, and i am very proud of her for the excellent work she has done on this report. six thousand children die of cancer every year in europe! in fact, it is the leading cause of death in children over one year of age. and that is unacceptable. we cannot allow bereaved parents with terminally ill children to wander around europe looking for the right treatment. it is not possible that every child in europe does not have the same chances of survival! today is world childhood cancer day. it's up to us to make that fight a priority. recognize pediatric oncology as a specialty field. provide more research and affordable medicines for children. we need to simplify access to treatment, across borders and together, as a true health union. please, commissioner, make sure that the mobile application that gives an overview of all the treatments in the various european countries is available soon. give parents and children hope!
madam president, from covid-19, the eu has proven that it can work as a collective in coordinating and collaborating when it comes to providing healthcare services, and we can do the same when it comes to dealing with cancer. we can share information, we can develop a code against cancer, developing standards that are for all across europe, regardless of your address. prevention can and does reduce the incidence of cancer, and we can all learn from the recommendations in this report. today is international childhood cancer day, and it’s so appropriate that in this report we outline how we can work for better treatments and care for children, for adolescents and for young adults who are fighting cancer. we can collaborate with healthcare professionals, researchers from academia and industry and patient representatives from across europe to help those young people. and when these young people recover from cancer, we want to assure them that their battle with cancer is over when their doctor says that they are recovered and that they won’t face obstacles in the workplace or when trying to access financial products. we want to see the right to be forgotten in place for all cancer survivors in europe. this is a plan supported by eur 4 billion. the challenge for us all now, for here in this parliament, for the council and importantly, as you know commissioner, is to make this plan happen.
madam chair, the measures we're discussing today are literally life-saving measures. the fact that 40 percent of cancers are preventable is encouraging because prevention is the best medicine -- more effective than any therapy -- because it saves lives, nerves, fear and tears. one of the most important elements is healthy living habits, which i would best describe as enjoying everything, overdoing nothing. the leading causes of death in the european union, heart disease and cancer, are largely caused by unhealthy diets, smoking and alcohol. therefore, any comprehensive cancer plan must include measures to combat these very things. otherwise, it would be like having firefighters stand outside your home, waiting for it to catch fire so that they can put it out. that is why i support the introduction of labels to enable citizens to make healthier food choices. in conclusion, the disparities in access to therapies, diagnoses and care between member states are shameful. it is essential that the european union acts decisively to reduce these disparities.
madam president, commissioner kyriakides, dear véronique, ladies and gentlemen, cancer is one of the most serious health problems, especially in the less developed countries, where health systems are suffering from numerous shortcomings and survival rates are worryingly low. immediate action is needed to improve the chances of survival of patients and to support their families. the drama they're going through -- and many of us in this room have gone through these tragedies -- the hardships they're struggling to overcome should spur us all to immediate, concrete action. prevention is another important aspect of fighting cancer. research is needed in this area and, in particular, action is needed to inform citizens about the factors that may contribute to the disease. it is important that we invest in health education for both children and adults, so that people can make informed choices about their lifestyle and diet on their own, not by imposing them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. cancer is a subject that we like to push aside, but when it hits us or our families, it unfortunately becomes the most important thing in our lives. and because we are so repressed, we often don't think about how we can prevent this terrible disease on a daily basis: by more exercise, by not smoking and also by eating a healthy, balanced and high-quality diet. high-quality food, enjoyed in variety and not over-eaten, is therefore particularly important. and then there are alcoholic beverages: wine, beer, even spirits. and one thing is clear: excessive alcohol consumption is a big problem, not just in terms of cancer, but it's bad for our overall health and unfortunately often fatal. excessive alcohol consumption is harmful, just as too much sugar is harmful and too much meat is harmful. at the same time, moderate consumption of high-quality wines and beers has been part of the diet and lifestyle of many of our member states for many centuries. and we shouldn't tell people not to have a glass of wine at lunch or a beer on the holidays. we should recognise that wine, beer and spirits are part of our culture, that hundreds of thousands of families in europe work in vineyards, wineries, breweries and distilleries, striving to produce quality food every day. i therefore ask you to support these amendments. this is not about lobbying, this is not about watered down. it's just that we could advocate for moderate consumption. prohibition has never brought us anything.
i am pleased that our report will put a strong focus on prevention and give concrete guidance on how, through various legislative amendment programmes, we can make further progress in the structured fight against cancer. where you live shouldn't be a question of whether you want to live. right now in the european union, we have first-class and second-class citizens because patients in eastern europe have a 30% lower chance of recovery than patients in western europe. as meps, we must ensure that the fight against cancer is not conditioned by social status or borders. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. i therefore believe that each member state should have at least one specialised centre for children and young people with cancer. our task is to help patients no matter where they live in the 27 member states, and all citizens deserve to be included in the right to be forgotten for cancer patients. europe can pool its efforts, knowledge and money, and such resources require, of course, political will. we also take care not to discriminate against the specificities of our industries and promote a healthy lifestyle. so to conclude, 40 percent of us are likely to face cancer at some point in our lives. this is one of our most important documents because there is no higher priority than life!
madam president, i would like to thank you. one in four cancer deaths occurs within the eu, despite the fact that only one in ten of the world's population lives here. there are, of course, various reasons for this, but it is clear that the eu and our member states must step up their efforts to combat cancer. action is needed along the entire chain, from root causes, to prevention, to screening, to treatment and follow-up. i am particularly pleased that the prevention work has been so well presented in this report and that the importance of chemicals and endocrine disruptors is highlighted. it is also positive that the committee is based on the research of the world health organisation and that the carcinogenicity of alcohol is shown and that there are recommendations there. it is time to turn our backs on the wine lobby and put labels on alcohol bottles. it is time for the rest of the eu to emulate sweden's restrictive alcohol policy not the other way around. i would also like to make it clear that in the case of wine lobbying, we must be pleased that the report says that there are no safe levels of alcohol consumption.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in april 2019, we were all campaigning to win the support of citizens to represent them in the european parliament. for me, april 17, 2019 was the day when, after some medical tests, the doctor called me and said: "mr. falcon, you have been diagnosed with cancer and you need to be operated urgently, even if it can be done tomorrow". in that moment, in that moment, everything changes. then you see the world in different colors. speaking in a stammer, my doctor gave me four days of family in my hometown, with friends, lots of hugs and lots of support, and then i got on the operating table, which turned into three operations. four hours turned into eleven, and after five days in intensive care, the doctor told me, "the surgery was a success, follow the therapy and you'll be fine". cancer can be defeated. thank you, colleagues, for bringing hope to people diagnosed with cancer, and i wish you much health, wisdom and support for these people.
madam president, mr vice-president borrell, i think that the report on human rights and democracy is extremely important because it represents our supreme commitment to the defence of these values. but i want to raise here, in the plenary of this parliament, a very serious situation here in europe, because, mr vice-president, on the border of the european union, in the republic of moldova, the russian federation has been maintaining an artificial conflict in the transnistrian region for more than three decades, where democracy and human rights are being trampled on every day. there are countless cases in the european court of human rights, where the russian federation is condemned for restricting access to education, for restricting freedom of expression, for maintaining an artificial conflict situation. we have an obligation to support this community to get out of this zone of blackmail and pressure from the russian federation. transnistria needs freedom and democracy.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by congratulating mr benifei on an extremely important and good report. in reality, it is quite simple. all toys bought in and for the eu must be safe. unfortunately, we see today that this is not the case. toys from third countries, not least, are being sold on online marketplaces which do not comply at all with our rules on the internal market. parents can easily throw dangerous toys into the trash. toys containing carcinogens, with loose parts or with strong magnets which destroy the stomach of children. just to mention some of the problems. it can't be like this. we must not accept that. parents, grandparents and others need to be able to shop safely online, and dangerous chemicals simply have no place in our toys. the online marketplaces provide increased accessibility for dangerous toys, and thus this is likely to be one of the biggest challenges to get safer toys in the eu. we need to close the loopholes in the legislation. the platforms should be made accountable, and i am glad that the report also addresses this. we need to fix this so people and children can play with safe toys.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our children are beginning to explore the world and develop their skills through toys. our children learn colors, numbers, shapes at a young age and then playfully continue with geometric skills. since toys are part of our children's lives and development, it is important to evaluate the toy directive and to promote rapid changes in these characteristics or a reduction in the content of substances that are hazardous to children's health. these toys must be safe, whether they are bought in shops or online, whether they are manufactured in the european union or in third countries. when it comes to our children's health, we have to be very careful. without a balance between benefits and risks, between the capacity for innovation and the quantities of safe materials allowed for the manufacture of toys, we will also be putting at risk a market in which almost 6 000 small businesses operate in the european union. moreover, the price of toys may become increasingly prohibitive. we must pay attention to scientific studies and at the same time reduce as far as possible the bureaucracy, labelling and packaging regulations which have nothing to do with the safety and health of children. in my opinion, our report - and i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work - shows just that, namely the need for balance and dialogue with manufacturers and consumer protection organisations in order to have safe, healthy, innovative and child-friendly toys.
i have to say, madam president, the most important thing now is to preserve peace in europe. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe. the german chancellor olaf scholz has helped by refusing to supply arms to ukraine, thus keeping channels of communication open to moscow. yes, it is true that the russian troop advance has led to the current threatening situation. i hope moscow will follow through on its announcement and end the maneuvers. but if we want a reliable european security architecture in europe, we must also take the security concerns from the russian point of view seriously, without sharing them. and if moscow feels threatened by nato expansion, you have to talk about it and negotiate. the only acceptable formats of dialogue are those which must be translated into a european security conference. the european union must be able to play a leading role in the world. this is the basis for a european peace order.
madam president, ukraine is europe, and ukrainian security is european security. high representative, unity among member states is most important for us, but we cannot have unity if we have orbán going and negotiating alone with putin. common action within nato, and full support for ukrainian independence, territorial integrity and strategic choices should be supported by us. this is the only way to answer to the unprecedented military aggression that country has been facing recently from the russian federation. at the same time, we need to continue providing political support, economic help and assistance to ukraine, including in defence and security related areas, and to develop a long—term strategy. this requires europe to formulate a geopolitical answer, because this crisis is also a lesson for us, and it could dramatically change the way europeans think about their own security.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fact that we europeans must stand in solidarity with ukraine has been rightly emphasized by most of the speakers here. only the extremists of the left and the right are becoming instruments of russian neo-imperialism. but it is not enough to prevent a new intervention in ukraine. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. and we cannot allow western greed to be used for putin's aggression. therefore: stop nord stream 2 and finally take a hard line against russian corruption and money laundering in the eu.
madam president, there is no need to remind you of the severity of the ongoing crisis. putin’s russia is working according to the plan: a strategic plan that has no less a goal than challenging the west and changing europe’s security architecture. building up a military presence and tightening the noose around ukraine, day by day, is not just a military drill. it is russia getting ready to attack one of its neighbours. the war in ukraine has already been going on for eight years. the strategic end state putin has in mind has not been delivered yet. ukraine has not collapsed, and there is no puppet regime in kyiv to follow the master’s orders. putin’s attempt to correct this mistake he made could take place at any moment. don’t let yourself be deceived by the dislocation of troops. moving units back and forth is what you do when you prepare for attack. russia is not de-escalating; they are escalating by adding pressure with cyber attacks. the west should not leave ukraine. diplomats and the media should stay in place. politicians should visit ukraine daily. this is what ukraine needs now, in addition to material support from friends and partners. last but not least, the eu must reaffirm strongly and openly that ukraine has the perspective to join the union one day.
madam president, yesterday we debated the cfsp and to csdp here, and i commend the high representative for his tireless and successful efforts in trying to bring about unity. however, i expect more from the council – peer-pressuring member states and deliberately jeopardising this very unity for internal political reasons or with misconceptions of history. we must stand foursquare behind the free and independent people of ukraine, through diplomacy, through the provision of defensive aid, and through hard cash. this is also about us, about our values, about upholding international law. it must be crystal clear, ahead of any further aggression, how high the price will be: freezing assets, stopping freedom of movement for everyone related to the regime, banning russia from the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication (swift) and halting nord stream 2. my message to the russian people, who are not our enemy, is: do not let mr putin drag you into a senseless war. to the people of ukraine: long live democratic ukraine!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i join those who have here expressed solidarity with ukraine and its people and maximum determination towards putin. but putin was always there. for years, putin has been testing our capacity to react and our political will. he's tested us in georgia, he's tested us in crimea, he's tested us by supporting other dictators, like maduro or bashar al-assad. the question is what are we ready and willing to do. i believe that the time has come to take a clear-cut stand on a common foreign policy by assuming a qualified majority in decision-making and establishing a european army, complementary and interoperable with nato. we have to make it a priority to decouple from strategic dependencies that can be used against us: energy, strategic natural resources, advanced technologies, especially when those dependencies are on non-democratic states. and, returning to putin and ukraine, we must take on with concrete resources and commitments an increased presence in the black sea region, a region of strategic importance from the point of view of security and energy.
madam president, mr high representative, commissioner, the kremlin's attempt to negotiate with nato and the usa a new security architecture in europe by establishing zones of influence from the soviet era shows russia's denial of the sovereign right of independent states to decide for themselves their systems of alliances and how to ensure their security. the long list of concessions and excessive compromises made in russia's favour for the sake of the business of large european companies, but also for the supply of gas on preferential terms, have financed the army with which putin today threatens the peace of some european states. in other words, the much-loved "business as usual" with russia was done at the expense of the security of ukraine, the baltic countries, poland, romania, bulgaria. in these days, the united states and the united kingdom have reacted quickly and massively, militarily consolidating ukraine and its eastern flank. nato is the only real shield for european security. at least for the moment, the solutions for european security are: accelerating the process of gaining energy independence from russia, deterring russia militarily and economically, and ending political compromises in favor of russia.
madam president, "you don't understand russia", moscow officials accuse us, and they're right. how can the european union, with its values, understand a dictatorship with imperialist nostalgia, still led today by people who come from the darkness of the ussr and do not want to leave? on the other hand, however, it is difficult to understand why when putin's intentions are very clear to us, such as, for example, the massing of the largest military device since the collapse of the ussr close to our borders, the european union fails to speak out and decide in unison on reprisals. to remain silent, to hesitate, to tolerate blackmail or to hope that putin will one day become the apostle of peace, are mistakes that can greatly endanger our democratic construction, especially in eastern europe. whatever the outcome of this crisis, if the union is to be a strong and credible global actor, it must drop its gloves, because the putin regime will not drop its boots, with which it periodically enters our lives, unless it has in us a determined interlocutor, fair in business, but also quick to react in unison when the game is dirty.
madam president, mr. high representative, mr. commissioner, distinguished colleagues, i believe that today's debate is very important and i say this as a man who is banned in the russian federation since 2015. i believe i am one of the few meps in this parliament who has this kremlin ban precisely because i have constantly allowed myself, mr high representative, to criticise putin's policy of illegally maintaining for 30 years a military presence in the republic of moldova, in the transnistrian region. my parents, like me, were born in an area occupied by the ussr, an area that belonged to eastern romania before world war ii, and they know these realities very well precisely because they lived them to the fullest. today, in ukraine, there are over half a million romanians, citizens of this state. on their behalf, i ask that you, along with our allies, do everything possible to stop putin.
in writing. we condemn, demand and propose that for months now, this forum and the european chancelleries have been pouring out legitimate vigour and initiatives for peace in the face of the military threat from the east. is anyone listening, or are we operating in a closed loop, with no echo in the surrounding reality? which is the bigger problem: russia, which wants to rebuild its soviet-era sphere of influence, or europe, which is caught off guard again? russia's intentions have been clear for a long time. that is why it is time to move from indignation to mobilization. for that, we have to go from being reactive to being proactive. of course, it is not easy when even a credible response to a limiting situation seems to be a colossal effort for those who have indulged, for so long, in mercantile lethargy. we will soon be discussing international sanctions and, as usual since the annexation of crimea until now, restrictive regimes will be adopted based on the lowest common denominator, due to the threat of veto by any member state. the impact is predictable. the current crisis in ukraine should force us to move from the rule of unanimity in foreign policy decisions to the system of qualified majority voting. it would be a first signal at council level that the eu wants to count in the international equation.
in writing. russia's increasingly threatening actions on the ukrainian border have in recent weeks substantially weakened the security situation in europe and the entire international rules-based order. the deployment of almost 150 000 troops on the country's borders and the repeated violations of the minsk agreements have created a situation in which europe must prepare for war. when an aggressive former superpower threatens a smaller democracy with the use of force and the redrawing of borders in our very neighbourhood, the eu must not stand idly by. it is a good thing that the eu is now ready to support ukraine with a macro-financial assistance of eur 1.2 billion. but we can't let the support stop there. the eu must also provide material support to ukraine to strengthen its defence capability and make it clear to russia that there is a high price to pay for violating ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. the eu must be prepared to impose wide-ranging sanctions if russia decides to escalate the situation further. a strong european response would be essential now to avoid the threat of war. a divided europe and half-hearted reactions would only encourage russia to continue its actions against international law. determination is the best peace offering right now.
in writing. the situation on the ukrainian border remains tense. we are not facing a ukrainian crisis, but a european crisis. the foundation of the european construction is peace, which is now in danger. i welcome the united european response to the crisis. i believe that it is never too late to find a diplomatic solution; dialogue is the way to de-escalate the situation. the epp group strongly supports the sovereign freedom of individual states to determine their own future and path. we stand in solidarity with ukraine. we remain committed to ensuring that the negotiations about us cannot take place without us. to increase the costs of russian action, the eu must find economic measures and sanctions that all member states agree with. i welcome the decision of the european parliament to provide 1.2 billion euros in aid to ukraine. romania is closer to this conflict than other eu countries. it is important that we enjoy the benefits of the nato security umbrella, the strategic partnership with the us and the solidarity of the eu. no romanian citizen should be afraid. we are ready to honour our international commitments and to participate in the implementation of the common european response in all possible scenarios. i hope that a diplomatic solution proves to be the most viable.
the european union (eu) is a partnership for peace and development, based on the values and principles of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. these are also the values and principles which should guide their international relations. in its relations with russia it must be explicit and concrete in defending ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. the threats and aggressive military movements of russia near the ukrainian border are unacceptable. in addition to the direct impact on the security of ukraine and the continent as a whole, russia's political and military behaviour has grave consequences for democracy, development and economic and social prosperity, and the eu should be prepared to apply sanctions if necessary. diplomatic efforts should continue at the highest level to ensure the reduction of tension, and strong coordination of diplomacy and the implementation of the common security and defence policy is required, in conjunction with other relevant partners. ultimately it is up to the ukrainians to decide on their future. the eu must contribute with all its capabilities to make this happen.
the next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance, pursuant to rule 162 of the rules of procedure, on the subject of 'one youth, one europe' (2022/2534 (rsp)). i would remind members that in all debates at this part-session there will be no 'catch the eye' procedure and no blue card questions. in addition, remote interventions from the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states are also planned. i would also like to remind you that speeches in the chamber will continue to be made from the central platform and i therefore invite you to follow the list of speakers and to approach the platform at the appropriate time.
author. – mr president, i have a question for you, for the distinguished commissioner, for the presidency and for all of you who are listening in the room. do you remember the feeling that you experienced the most when you were 18 years old? it’s a good question, right? some may say it’s a question about a feeling of joy, or curiosity or wonder: in our romantic depiction of our younger times we were convinced that we were at the top of our world. but i remember, at the same time when i was 18, that it was about some degree of insecurity related to my looks, about girls – and why not music and sports? very interesting. but do you remember – all of you remember that? but how many of you are remembering the anxiety of that age? how many of you remember the doubts about what follows after your studies? the questions, the uncertainty. do you remember how, in some of the most vulnerable years of your life, you had the toughest decisions ahead of you: to work and study hard, to compete without pause, to get where you are now? and for any young person, in any period, anxiety, doubts and questions will be constant companions at their start of life. and that’s probably one of the most critical parts of the life in order to fulfil the personality. and the european year of youth that we are celebrating in 2022 is indeed, for the majority of young europeans, not necessarily a moment of celebration – on the contrary, it is a moment of agonising contemplation of vanishing possibilities. and that’s really serious. this is why renew europe has decided to make this topic of youth the main proposal for this plenary, for this particular session. this is why we have just voted – and thank you very much for the resolution empowering european youth. and that’s very important, because young people are on the fault line between the digital / green revolutions. they are subject directly to technological change, to social vulnerability, to worrying demographic evolutions, and also to education systems that have not changed for decades. and also because our youth has lost two precious years to covid, so we think that they deserve more. this is why renew europe has adopted today a pledge for all young europeans, and this is why we will launch the ‘one youth, one europe’ call for action, requesting concrete actions that will have a real impact, besides all the plans we have put in the resolution that will be voted on today. in the resolution, we call for a common european legislation for internships that you are very well aware of, ensuring that they are paid and that no young person in europe is exploited any more in fake traineeships or internships. we call as well, in our call for action, for the reinforcement or refurbishment or reimagining of the european youth one-stop portal, providing quick and easy access for all eu level-solutions, funding and opportunities at one click away. we call for the creation of a single european mental health hotline and a european mental health support network. this is one of the critical issues that you will find in any discussions that you have with young people today. this would be providing free online resources and mental health consultations to any youth in need at european level through coordination. we call for the creation of a real european civic service in order to simplify and diversify the opportunities for civic engagement. we call for a european culture pass that can give free access to young people; a european youth mobility card to host both facilities of the interrail pass and the free public transportation in eu capitals; a european study loan for equal opportunities; and a european youth office for coordination. this is what i hope to hear in today’s debate: opportunities, access to solutions, certainty and understanding. this is not business as usual, dear colleagues, this is our opportunity to leave a legacy of access and opportunities for one youth, for one europe.
president, commissioner, secretary of state beaune, the european commission must immediately put the conditionality mechanism into action and use it against hungary and poland. the european court of justice has served ready wine; there are no excuses for further delay. the longer the european commission waits, the more ill-gotten money will flow into the pockets of corrupt associates and relatives of viktor orbán in hungary and the more time the polish government will have to further dismantle the independent polish judiciary. these attacks on the rule of law must be stopped immediately. the european commission says it wants to build a case that is 100 per cent untouchable. however, the existence of corruption and problems in hungary and poland has been established with two hundred per cent certainty. the european court of justice has today given europe an unmistakable fiat to protect the rule of law by hitting member states who do not follow the rules where it hurts, namely in their pockets. i would therefore ask the european commission to do its job. i would say to the member states: it's got to be done with the lip service. it's time to show our teeth and stand up for our credibility.
madam president, today is the day when it was ruled that compliance with eu values cannot be only reduced to an obligation for candidate states before accession, and then disregarded after joining the union. it is an ongoing obligation. it should be clear to everyone that we have a strong legal instrument that has to be used. the commission has absolutely no excuse to refrain from using the conditionality mechanism; neither in the case of poland, nor in that of hungary, or of any other government – not people – which disrespects the rule of law and eu values. speaking of governments, romania has received eur 43 billion net from the eu so far in european funds. this has transformed our society – from business to health, from education to work, from culture to our freedom. so now, denying the primacy of eu law, harassing judges, ignoring the justice reform, the venice commission, disregarding media freedom, reducing competences of the national anti-corruption directorate, they all put romania at risk of losing trust and money. i hope we will have the wisdom not to the next ones in line. president von der leyen, i am so sorry that you are not in the room today, but starting tomorrow, we all expect the commission to do its job.
mr president, ‘we do not yet have full scientific evidence about the effects of vaccination, but we cannot wait for all these questions to be answered’. this is what commissioner didier reynders said in this plenary on 28 april 2021. we received guarantees from him in front of us that this green certificate is not going to be used to violate people’s rights, but it will be used to facilitate the freedom of movement. and look what is happening right now all across europe. we heard just today that the commission is acknowledging that member states are abusively using this certificate to violate people’s rights. and the commission says implicitly that that is ok. what we saw happening this year is that this certificate was used to coerce people, to mandate people, to force people to be vaccinated against their will. so the question to the commission is, why would someone accept that eu citizens be vaccinated with medical products based on these contracts that weren’t released to the public? so i’m asking publicly here the commission, before we even talk about prolonging the green certificate, to fully publish the contracts that the commission signed with the companies concerned.
mr president, commissioner, every year in the european union alone, 2.5 million people are diagnosed with cancer. another 1.3 million citizens are losing their battle with this cruel disease and are being taken from us. these are either children, elderly people or very dear beings who leave behind real drama. data collected by the european commission show that more than half of work-related deaths are caused by occupational cancer. we must not allow this to happen in the european union! i am very pleased that in five years we are already discussing the fourth proposal for an amendment to the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens or mutagens at work. our citizens need to know that the european union is working continuously for their well-being and health. health must remain a priority for us. the proposal we are debating today aims to reduce occupational exposure to three carcinogens and is a further step towards a healthier europe, and i insist on this because it is important to explain to citizens that there are things that have no price and that we must fight for continuously. we are already in the third year of the covid-19 pandemic, a pandemic that has shown us that health should always come first. we also need to ensure that we deliver on our commitment to a european health union and that workers, who may not have the privilege of working in the comfort of an office, are protected against any harmful factors to their health. these are essential workers who have been hard hit by this health crisis, such as health care workers, construction workers, refiners, chemical manufacturers. in this regard, i want to stress that it is absolutely vital that we find the best solutions to protect all exposed workers.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the enormous energy crisis we are experiencing has caught us by surprise just as we are moving towards the green deal. in parallel, our farmers have also had to deal with russia's attacks on the price of grain and its expansion into other markets and the political instability it has also triggered. the commission established the profitability of the union industry by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. here's the example of farmers in my country: to the price of inputs that has increased five times over 2021, add up to 60% higher prices for natural gas and around 20% for electricity and diesel. in january 2022, in a single month, electricity and gas prices increased by 6-7 times. the effect is acute in the price of food, which is up to 25% higher for staple foods. in this way, farmers are afraid of tomorrow and, with no solutions, some producers are contemplating bankruptcy or the prospect of their labour being sold to speculators, which will mean the destruction of small and medium-sized farms, which are the very ones that the cap has placed at the heart of the green revolution. in animal husbandry, it is even worse: to the new bills, the increased price of feed is added, which represents almost 70% of the production cost. animal welfare standards, therefore, are becoming increasingly difficult to maintain. but the worst affected is the pork sector, where the situation is catastrophic. here they further hit african swine fever and reduced exports to china. in this area, we are faced with a paradox: although we have surpluses of pigmeat on the market, the european consumer is paying, at the peak, more per kilogram. overall, industry profit margins in europe were at their lowest level in the last decade. and yet the european commission continues to leave the sector adrift, saying - many wonder why so easily - that it expects the market to regulate itself. the same commission inaction also applies to the rest of the agricultural sector, where some remedies could be made, for example by eliminating protective tariffs and anti-dumping duties on some fertiliser imports. without intervention, however, european agriculture continues to spiral into an expensive spiral that could bring it to its knees in just a few years. commissioner, it is good that the commission is aware of the situation. however, how does this lack of support for the european farmer fit in with the commission's expectations of him: to make the green revolution a reality and in the long term; to fight land abandonment and rebuild the countryside; to attract young people to agriculture and to make the common agricultural policy a top brand?
mr. president, the ukrainian people have the courage to stand up to one of the largest armies in the world and they are succeeding. they have the courage to fight, but not to give up the values of freedom, which are also the values of the european union. it is a lesson for any tyrannical and murderous regime which wants to stifle in blood and bombs the aspirations and values of europe, democracy and the choice of a future in freedom. dear colleagues, this lesson of ukrainian citizens is also for us, who have taken liberty and peace for granted in recent decades. our lesson is that we must have determination, courage and open the way to the european union today to all europeans who want and believe in this project. and fear not: just as they were able to stand against such a great army, so they will have the strength to rebuild their country and be ready for the european union. ukrainians deserve to be in the european union and the union to open its doors wide. just as the moldovans and the georgians deserve. the commission has taken historic and courageous steps in recent days and this must continue. united we are strong and this is also seen in the help given by romanian, polish, hungarian, slovak and moldovan citizens to war refugees. countries that have opened their borders to refugees urgently need support, they need to be helped. glory to ukraine!
in writing. russia's war against ukraine is a war crime. russia has used all kinds of military weapons in ukraine and is threatening the world with a nuclear bomb, targeting not only strategic facilities and the ukrainian military, but also residential buildings, kindergartens and other common facilities. the european union, the united states and many other democratic countries decided to impose personal sanctions on the russian warmonger, president putin and his foreign minister lavrov. he is responsible for the repression of the ukrainian people in the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. the russian leadership is under heavy sanctions. the ruble has lost its value drastically, and in the long run, the russian economy will be hit hard. other, including mixtures belarus has lost all independence. lukashenko does what putin wants. today, the belarusian forces also launched an offensive against ukraine. in effect, putin has achieved complete control of the belarusian regime. the democratic world has to do a lot more to stop this putinism from going through. in the next few days, the main objective will be kiev and its capture. it is clear that this will require a lot of civilian casualties and the duration of the ukrainian resistance is unknown. a new era in european security has begun.
in writing. the european union has decided to make its position on russian aggression clear by voting today. as a separate, sovereign state, ukraine cannot be challenged by its neighbour, regardless of its alleged territorial claims. it is also unacceptable that this aggression is justified under any pretext offered by the kremlin. the unity and solidarity offered by the eu to its neighbour sends a clear signal in the form of a significant strengthening of sanctions, the disconnection of key russian banks from the swift payment system and, above all, the granting of eu accession status to the candidate country. it should be emphasised that ukraine is currently fighting courageously not only for freedom and democracy in its own country, but also in europe as a whole.
the invasion of ukraine by the russian federation, in addition to territorial annexation, is an intolerable political-ideological annexation, like the one that has already been consummated in other border territories and has been attempted in other latitudes through disinformation, cyberattacks and funding of extremist and destabilizing political forces. the european parliament's plenary session and the resolution debated and adopted therein reinforce the action of the european institutions and its member states, which have been steadfast in supporting ukraine in an articulated, united and proportionate manner, by sending defence equipment, by retaliating against the invader in order to target those most responsible, by avoiding escalation of the war to a level where there are no winners or losers and by strengthening their security and defence networks, in cooperation with nato and other allied countries and by ensuring humanitarian support, including the reception and integration of war refugees. i would stress that the portuguese people and their government have been at the forefront of solidarity with the ukrainian people, a solidarity which is growing throughout europe and the globe and which is fuelling hope that a peaceful solution can be found to the brutal threat the world is facing.
the vote is already open and will be open until 16.15. i now invite all colleagues to ensure there are many people in the esplanade for our address. i am looking forward to that. (the sitting was suspended at 15.51)
good afternoon, i would like to announce the result of the vote on the resolution on russian aggression against ukraine. in the vote on the resolution as a whole, 676 members voted. 637 members voted in favour. there were 13 votes against and 26 abstentions. so the resolution is adopted.
the minutes of today’s sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of our next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolution adopted to the persons and bodies named in the resolution.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on tuesday, 1 march 2022.
dear colleagues, we are here again as the shelling of ukraine continues unabated. the price of putin’s illegal invasion can be measured in civilian casualties and the upending of the democratic world order. our outrage grows with every shell that is fired, as does the ukrainian defiance and our peoples’ solidarity. our cities and our governments have put european values into practice by welcoming more than a million ukrainians fleeing the kremlin’s tanks. people have taken to the streets all around the globe, including in russia, to condemn putin’s invasion, to tell the kremlin aggressors to stop the killing. to demand freedom. to demand that the voices of ukrainian children are no longer drowned out by the sound of putin’s bombs. much of putin’s propaganda claims that we are somehow anti-russian. nothing is further from the truth. we recognise the immense courage it takes to stand up. we know the russia of navalny, of nemtsov, of magnitsky, of the thousands jailed over the last days. and our message is this: putin does not equal russia. brave citizens of russia, despite the threat of jail and the brutal crackdown, continue to stand up. they are the peacemakers. handwritten placards with peace signs and anti-war slogans today are enough to merit people being detained. there are reports of more than 13 000 people in 147 russian cities being held for speaking against the invasion. only yesterday, 4 500 people were detained: russians standing up under the toughest of conditions, showing the world that the true face of russia does not have to be putin’s. those brave people can today face up to 15 years in prison, according to the two laws brought into force in russia on 4 march, criminalising not only those protesting against the war, but also informing about the war, contrary to the official information given by the russian authorities. putin will find that the truth is not easily suppressed, and i want to express our solidarity with all peaceful anti-invasion protesters in russia and applaud their courage to stand up publicly. so on behalf of the european parliament, i call on the russian authorities to free all those unjustly jailed, to allow the freedom of expression. i call on the russian authorities to stop intimidating protesters and release immediately all those who are detained.
the minutes and the texts adopted at the sitting of 1 march 2022 are available. i take it there are no comments. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the s&d group has notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within the delegations, and those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the pech committee has decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1). the report, which constitutes the mandate for the negotiations, is available on the plenary webpage and its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday 8 march at midnight, that the decision to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament on the decision to enter into negotiations is made within the deadline i just mentioned, the committee may start the negotiations.
i would also like to inform you that, since the adjournment of parliament’s session on 17 february 2022, i have signed, together with the president of the council, three acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79. i would also like to inform you that on wednesday i shall sign, together with the president of the council, one act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
following consultations with the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposal for changes to the final draft agenda: the report by our colleague ms toom on eu citizenship report 2020 is moved to wednesday afternoon as the last item. based on the number of amendments received, we would declare that the second voting session is cancelled. finally, i would like to inform you that the votes are distributed along different voting sessions taking into account the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for split and separate votes. please note also that this distribution could be still subject to changes. the relevant information concerning the distribution of votes is available on the website of the european parliament under the section entitled ‘priority information and documents’. the agenda is therefore adopted and the order of business is thus established.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the implementation of cohesion policy 2021-2027 (o-000002/2022 b9-0006/2022) (2022/2527 ((rsp)) by mr younous omarjee, on behalf of the committee on regional development. members are reminded that no requested speeches or blue card questions will be allowed in the debate during this part-session. i would also point out that, as in the recent partsession, the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states. i would also remind you that the speakers in the chamber still use the platform in the centre of the chamber. i urge you to follow the list of speakers and move closer to the podium as your time to speak begins.
author. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before we turn to our oral question, i wish to express, on behalf of our entire committee on regional development, our full and unwavering solidarity with the ukrainian people. we also express our full solidarity with the poles, slovaks, romanians, hungarians and moldovans who share a physical border with ukraine and are at the forefront of welcoming the ukrainian refugees who are fleeing this shameful war and the kremlin's bombs. we are facing, ladies and gentlemen, one of the largest movements of population in the history of europe. within a few days, more than 1.5 million refugees were on the roads. this is why our solidarity must be concrete. europe and cohesion policy must now respond and demonstrate their ability to provide additional support to these countries now. that is why, commissioner, i welcome the proposals you intend to put on the table. following the discussions we had together in the informal council in rouen and in marseille, i can confirm that our committee on regional development is prepared, if necessary, to amend the cohesion regulations in order to facilitate and enable immediate funding for support for the towns and regions which are hosting refugees and also for support for ukrainian refugees. despite this urgency, we are concerned about cohesion policy, and that is the subject of our question. two years after the adoption of the regulations, the 2021-2027 cohesion policy has not yet started and almost no partnership agreements have been validated. we have a duty to make this programming a success and we hope that the programmes will be operational in the regions and in the field before the end of this year. this situation is of particular concern to us, commissioner, because across europe, recovery plans are being deployed in regions that compete with, and are not consistent with, traditional regulations. and where there are abuses, the states must now be reminded to bring order and to strictly respect the objectives of cohesion policy to which they are bound by the regulations. of course, we must face up to the urgency of the recovery. this is absolutely necessary, but it is also imperative to commit programmes to the maintenance of long-term and sustainable development objectives. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european energy charter is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which will be taken in the near future. the new cohesion policy must therefore be able to be rolled out throughout europe before the end of this year. this is the message of our regi committee and, i should like to say, it is also the concern of the committee of the regions. we therefore expect the following questions to be answered. first, what is the state of play so far in the submission and approval of partnership agreements and cohesion programmes? are they more or less advanced than at the same stage of the 2014-2020 programming period? secondly, what is the average time taken to approve partnership agreements and programmes? moreover, when does the commission intend to transfer the first interim payments? thirdly, does the commission continue to share the position of commissioner hahn, who stated - do you remember - in october 2021 that almost all of the 2021 budget allocation should be rescheduled for subsequent years? fourthly, what measures does the commission intend to take to avoid the considerable risk of under-implementation of the funds? finally, commissioner, you are aware of the european parliament's commitment to the principle of partnership. we therefore want to know how the commission ensures that the partnership principle is respected and implemented by the states and, therefore, that all local actors and civil society are consulted, which is absolutely necessary. that is what we wanted in the negotiations and that is what we got. in conclusion, madam commissioner, i would like to say that you are the guarantor of the agreements discussed, discussed and negotiated with you and the member states in the trilogues. we therefore ask you - and we know that we can count on you - to ensure that the member states and regions respect the agreements reached and the agreed rules which now bind us all.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear chair omarjee, honourable members, in fact, in a yet more challenging time than any of us could have imagined, when the horror of war is ravaging european soil, europe is acting and it’s acting more united and with more determination than ever before. answering directly your call, tomorrow i hope the commission will demonstrate again that cohesion policy can act fast in such situations, supporting our regions and member states in welcoming the increasing number of people fleeing the conflict. but meanwhile, our structural long—term work does not stop, and finalising the 2021—2027 cohesion programming remains, in fact, a top priority. we started the preparation very early, already in 2019, and our expectation sincerely was that all the programmes would be ready by the end of 2020. as you know, the pandemic crisis affected every aspect of private and public life, and the commission had to come up with new proposals. and now, how far behind are we? from previous mff periods, at this point in time, it is true that almost all programmes had been submitted. in contrast today, we have adopted one partnership agreement, that of greece. twelve member states have formally submitted theirs, together with a little over 100 draft programmes. however, it’s impossible to draw a comparison between the world of yesterday and the world of today, as we all know. in the last year, member states focused, and rightly so, on the programming and delivering of crii, of react and of the recovery and resilience instrument. and in fact now i fully concur with this parliament that in this difficult context, we must not lose sight of ensuring stable regional policy and investment in the long term. so, let’s note very quickly two or three topics. first, let’s focus on what can be done on the ground. delay in formal submission does not mean absence of resources. at this moment, member states have funds, both from crii 2014—2020 and react—eu. second, it should not prevent the implementation of projects to start already because, as you know, expenditure is already eligible from 1 january this year, provided that the programming tests accommodate them. third, no amount will be lost – and here i answer directly your question – due to the delay in 2021. we have reallocated the 2021 money to the years 2022 to 2025. but, in 2022, we no longer have this luxury, so we cannot afford further delay. fourth, once programmes are in place, the commission has both soft and regulatory tools to help reduce implementation risks, and the risks of de-commitment. we’ll follow implementation almost in real time. let me stress two more elements. programme quality: cohesion programmes matter more than ever before, so quality is at the centre of our concerns, and they matter for a green and digital transition for all regions. i urge member states to send fully mature, high—quality and pre—agreed programmes in full compliance, namely with the charter of fundamental rights. and second, partnership: partnership – the evidence here is clear – successful programmes have strong partnerships, so we’ll monitor compliance with the code of conduct of partnership. we will also encourage the full use of community—led local development, which is a true agent of change at local level, empowering people to be in charge of their own development strategies. this is the situation; the pandemic and the ensuing crisis put us behind. we are pursuing an ambitious recovery plan for europe. we are facing a humanitarian and geopolitical challenge that we consider unthinkable. and in the midst of all this, we must ensure the cohesion policy continues to support a resilient, cohesive, long-term approach. this is our belief, and we believe that it is also the belief and interest of you, the european parliament, and our european citizens. so thank you very much. we are together in this concern and in this objective.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hold in my hands the letter of european cohesion policy 706 pages of rules on how the european structural and investment funds work. they are very good at predicting what to do in a moment of crisis - when the european union is being swamped by a wave of refugees. i know this well because in these 705 pages, together with constance krell and a large team of people, we have devoted two years of our lives to getting you accepted. the problem is that cohesion policy is not working at the moment because of the inaction of the member states, but also because we are watching their inaction with our bare hands. but it turns out that the measure of leadership is concrete and rapid action. the lack of such action lends leadership to others. (the president interrupts the speaker)
could we please just have a small pause? we have an issue with the interpretation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – i can continue in english until interpretation is available. so, i’ll start from the very beginning. you already saw the book that i showed you. i said, this is the alphabet of european cohesion policy. and i know this very well because with a large group of colleagues, along with constanze krehl, we dedicated three years of our lives to participating in adoption of those ... (interrupted by the president)
this is not personal, but there are a number of languages involved, not just english and your language. so please wait a little bit, we will fix the problem, and we will not steal any speaking time from you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – i knew that at some point in my career i would end up in front of the plenary without knowing what to say. and i have to say that even knowing that for so long, it didn’t prepare me well for this. but i can assure you that the situation is such that even such moments could not break our will to support our neighbours ... (interruption by president)
colleague, please you can continue.
on behalf of the ppe group. – which language, madam?
your own language, whichever language you want. as you know we are a multilingual parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group. i have in my possession the book that is the basis of european cohesion policy, as i have already said. the problem is that this policy is not working at the moment and we need clear and concrete action. we should do this... (the president interrupts the speaker) i can send my speech in writing. i can use the services of parliament to send it in 24 different languages, if that's going to help. but, madam president, i would like to ask you to indicate to me when i can continue with my speech. i'll continue in english, then and we'll see how the interpretation goes, but that goes so far, anyway. - good for you. i hope you understand me in bulgarian and hear what i'm saying, which is that we can't afford any more delays like this right now. whether there's a translation or not, whether you understand what i'm saying, i know you understand what we have to do. we bulgarians like to say that the neighbor is part of the family, and the family is always helped. over a million refugees from ukraine are currently in poland, hungary, slovakia, romania, and bulgaria. we have enough dormant money in cohesion policy that we are not using at the moment. i call for urgent action the european commission to immediately create a tool to support any country that accepts ukrainian refugees. only then can we show that there is action behind the talk, that we believe in what we are doing and that we can be united in this difficult time. when the whole world is watching. as you can see, there are no refugees who choose other countries overseas. every time, in every crisis, europe is the first to help. we have no right to apologize for not being prepared for a crisis. when did we go? were we prepared for the greek debt crisis, the refugee crisis before that, the corona crisis? but these are moments where we stand stronger and stronger, and i believe that no matter how many times the translation stops, we have all been together here and we have agreed that we cannot stand by and watch as some countries take on the burden of the whole union. europe must act now. the european commission should immediately set up an initiative to support any country that is currently hosting refugees. we have money. we need the will to use them.
thank you, colleague. i also thank you for speaking so slowly and clearly so that the interpreters will get the message across to even the finnish language and english language and all the languages.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. first of all, i would like to take this opportunity to assure the commission of my support if it is proposed that we support towns and villages which are taking in refugees from the ukraine, from the war zone. i believe that the european parliament has demonstrated more than once in recent years that we can work quickly and flexibly when it comes to taking on new challenges. we have shown this during the corona pandemic, when it came to adopting crii and crii+, when it came to inventing react-eu and also formally confirming it. this was also the case when we worked quickly to draft and then adopt the just transition fund. however, there are also challenges that we can only overcome together and where things are a little bit sticky at the moment. we are writing march 2022. the period of support for european cohesion policy should have been a very productive year. of course, we've been delayed in the negotiations because of the pandemic, and it took until february 2021 to pass the trilogue. if you review this, you have to say, for example, that we could not make a single trilogy during the croatian presidency in the spring of 2020. it was the corona. but now - and i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to you - we are in a situation where very few partnership agreements, very few operational programmes have been submitted. but the regions, the cities and the communities, the citizens, are waiting to get started with european cohesion projects, because they are different projects from those which can be financed, for example, by the arf. and they are waiting for us to face the challenges of the green deal, of digitisation or of improving the situation of the regions that are structurally weak and actually carrying out the projects. i therefore take this opportunity not only to appeal to the commission to help the member states to get the programmes started soon, but also to urge the member states themselves to do their job, to submit the partnership agreements as soon as possible and the operational programmes as well. i think that is what the citizens expect from us and that is what they need in these difficult times.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, commissioner ferreira, it is absolutely right to support, also through regional policy, the municipalities and regions which help the war refugees from ukraine. we have had good experiences with the crii+ and react-eu programmes during the corona crisis, which we can use now. aid on the ground to strengthen local authorities is part of an active peace policy. this is the right way to live and to communicate our common values of humanity and democracy. but at the same time we must not neglect our long-term cohesion policy. that was the original reason for this debate. the main conclusion of the eighth cohesion report is that cohesion policy remains urgently needed: firstly, the consequences of the corona crisis are still not overcome. reconstruction must not exacerbate the existing inequalities. and secondly, the visible reduction of structural inequalities and fair socio-ecological conversion are crucial for cohesion and resilience in the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the european union will be spending in the next years more money than ever, from the budget of the european union and from the recovery and resilience facility. and the recovery and resilience facility, together with the cohesion policy, are the most important investment policies that the european union has, benefiting the net recipient countries, but in fact benefiting also the single market of the european union, the economies in all of our member states. we have decided the policy for the next 7 years with future—oriented objectives, objectives which will make our economies stronger, more competitive, more innovative. this is why we should, commissioner, make sure that we are able to implement the policy without any further delay. my first call to the commission is to make sure that you’re working with member states to recover the delays. yes, we had delays also in the adoption of the legal basis, but now the delays are in the adoption of the operational programmes of the partnership agreements. we have to work with governments. they concentrated and they did well on the recovery and resilience facility, but we have to push them now as well because there have to be synergies between the two, because there needs to be coherence, convergence, coordination, and the recovery and resilience facility will be more successful if implemented hand in hand with cohesion policy. first thing. second thing. the fact that there is a delay now we should also use to make sure that we allocate money where countries need it, also as a consequence of the war in ukraine. exactly as we reacted when covid occurred, we should see where we can introduce more flexibility, where we can eventually amend the co—financing rate so that member states can use the money on the ground where it is needed, including to alleviate the consequences of increased energy prices and help the most vulnerable people affected by the increase of energy prices.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would first like to assure you of our full support for your recent announcement to adapt the cohesion rules to support the arrival of ukrainian refugees. i think this is as much a moral imperative as an economic necessity. this debate comes at a crucial moment, when the resources mobilised, whether for cohesion or recovery, have never been so large. there is also harmful competition between the recovery plans and the structural funds. this largely explains the delays in current programming and, in the long run, poses existential risks for the future of cohesion policy. in addition to your proposals to extend the co-financing of the crii+ initiative to 100% for one year and to redeploy the unused funds for 2014-2020, one way, madam commissioner, to remedy these delays should be to strengthen the participation of local and regional authorities, both in steering the recovery plans and in the development of the partnership agreements. as such, could you tell us more about the updated code of conduct on partnerships that you wish to see?
madam president, commissioner ferreira, the 2021-2027 programming period is a very different period from what we have had so far. the european green deal is bringing major changes. the pandemic that followed has had and is having a severe impact on our population, but also on our economy, and the war in ukraine will affect not only the energy market, but the economy as a whole. we are talking about a period in which we will have to overcome challenges as best we can, and this can only be achieved through close cooperation between the authorities, those who have to program the cohesion funds, civil society and the economic environment. we need to ensure that this dialogue exists from the programming period, that civil society is listened to, not just heard, and that citizens' priorities are reflected in the projects that will be implemented in the coming years. it is important to find the right means to encourage civil society to have a say, to put forward its priorities, especially in regions where there is no tradition of social involvement, or where the authorities have so far decided unilaterally. economic operators, those who have felt the negative effects of the pandemic and who will also feel the effects of the war in ukraine, must be encouraged to come up with solutions, with projects for the economic growth of the regions in which they operate, because only in this way will cohesion policy achieve its goals.
yes, it is. tomorrow is international women's day.
madam president, commissioner, the exceptional times we are living in call for exceptional measures. first, no more euros from the eu budget should go to beneficiaries in russia or belarus. that is why we must establish a general prohibition on european money, including from cohesion policy, being able to reach companies or other beneficiaries in these countries in any form. second, we already have hundreds of thousands of refugees in the union, and that number will grow to several million. it is necessary to temporarily extend the eligibility of the cohesion funds for projects assisting ukrainian citizens, on the basis of the rights conferred by the temporary protection directive. looking to the future, ukraine will need reconstruction. we must support the creation of a reconstruction fund for ukraine, including the channelling of part of the interreg crossborder cooperation programme.
madam commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eighth cohesion report has shown very clearly that cohesion policy is a success story and that cohesion policy is urgently needed in the future, as there are still large differences between regions. and this basic principle of solidarity, which is cohesion policy, must continue to operate actively and with sufficient resources in the future. the covid crisis has revealed new challenges, and the european union has also managed to adopt a recovery and resilience plan. and because all the quotas from the financial perspective have not been used in the past, all those who are involved in cohesion policy at national, regional and local level are very busy. this is why there are also considerable delays in the adoption of partnership agreements. these days we are seeing a new crisis, namely the russian aggression against ukraine, and a wave of new refugees coming to the european union. i am also very much in favour of taking care of these unfortunates who have had to flee their homes, and of using the funds in cohesion policy to ensure that the municipalities and regions can provide good care for those who need it most in these days. but certainly this ukrainian crisis will, if we may so say, certainly change our priorities and i think that there will be a lot of creativity in the partnership agreements and a lot of help from the european commission to respond to the challenges that will also come as a result of this crisis.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much to all the honourable members for the important questions that have been put to us. i’ll try, in the short time that i have, to concentrate on three or four issues. first, i will recall that lack of funding is not a problem at the moment, at the level of the different countries and regions, as they have to finish the 2014-2020 and/up to 2023. there is the crii facility, there is the react-eu extra money that is being used and the quota of 2022 is not yet exhausted at all. and the member states can also anticipate the support to programmes that will be absorbed later on in the 2021-2027 operational framework – so the partnership agreement – provided that the operational programmes accommodate these projects. nevertheless, i think we are all together in recognising the importance of speeding up the partnership agreements. we are convinced that in the first half of this year, we will formally receive from member states most of the proposals of the partnership agreements for 2021-2027 and this is absolutely essential – with the exception of four countries that will only present them, that’s the information we have – in the second half of the year. on this capacity of cohesion policy, without jeopardising the purpose of the policy is to be able to give emergency support to the different problems that we are facing. we think and, in fact sharing your concerns, we think that we can do something with cohesion funds in support of those countries that are receiving the refugees from ukraine. and in fact, we will, i hope, that tomorrow in the college, we will have a decision of the college in relation to the aspects that several of you have mentioned. so, the possibility to use react-eu funds to do it and for this, we don’t need the support of the two co-legislators. then, the prolongation of the 100% co-financing of crii for an extra year and the possibility to use still available funds in the operational programmes with a line to support these refugees. for these two operations, we will need the support of this parliament and the support of the council because this requires a change in the cpr, as you know. we are really very happy to hear so many of you already stating, and in particular the chair of the committee on regional development, that we will have this support and, of course, being fast is as important as having funds. so, we are expecting this to be operational. my other comment is in relation to certain members that referred to the need to stop the dependence from russia in relation to energy. there is a package that is being prepared by the commission on exactly how to organise our work. cohesion funds are supporting very much renewables, as we all know, and climate targets. also, i think it’s important that we put in the possibility and the materialisation of our targets in relation to creating a true internal market for renewables that still doesn’t exist, and 15% has not been reached. in relation to other comments, yes, it is true that while we are putting pressure on member states to speed up their presentation of programmes, we still want them to make quality programmes and that, in fact, as mr fernandes was mentioning, that it is important that the funds are directed to the regions that need it the most. but the quality of the vision that you have in terms of development has got to be there so that all the funds converge and in particular, and here i quote or i come back to what mr omarjee, among others, mentioned, that, in fact, it is not possible that the different instruments don’t have a kind of coherent vision of the country and of the development strategy for the different regions that integrated. and yes, of course, we want partnership principles, correction of asymmetries and compliance with the basic principles of the european union to be there. i would also like to make a clarification, in particular, it was [inaudible] that mentioned it, that the cohesion cooperation programmes with russia and with belarus, the cross-border programmes, have in fact been already suspended and we are trying to reinforce, together with a lot of other instruments, the programmes in which ukraine is a partner so that in fact, we give a contribution to the maintenance of a minimum of quality of life of the people that live close to the borders. and yes, we will have to reassess the future support in relation to the devastated territories. lastly, yes, the commission is assuming its responsibilities under this framework. we see a lot of progress in the presentation of the programmes. but yes, it is a joint responsibility partnership – that’s what it means, a partnership between the member states and the commission with a lot of support from all of you. and so i think the reinforcement of transparency, of accountability, of understanding and knowing who is the final beneficiary is among, as you know, our new legislation, as well as simplification. so let’s see, if, in fact, what we are aiming at when we negotiated in trialogues – the new legislation, if we can deliver it in practice so that you have a full sharing of the purposes of the targets that we want to reach. yes, the cohesion policies will be there and it is, i think, one of the basic fundamental souls of europe when it comes to principles and solidarity, which is as we know a very important principle of us together and we see it today more than ever.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place at the next part-session, not this part-session. written declarations (rule 171)
the next item is the report by sophia in 't veld, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposals for a regulation on investor citizenship and residence rights for the commission (a9-0028/2022) (2021/2026 ((inl)). members are reminded that no requested speeches or blue card questions will be allowed in the debate during this part-session. i would also point out that, as in the recent partsession, the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states. i would also remind you that the speakers in the chamber still use the platform in the centre of the chamber. i urge you to follow the list of speakers and move closer to the podium as your time to speak begins.
rapporteur. – madam president, when governments are selling passports or visas, what is actually bringing in the cash is not those passports and visas, but it’s the little blue and yellow logo on them. these stars of the eu flag, however, are not for sale. they belong to all of us, and governments are essentially selling what is not theirs to sell. golden passports and golden visa schemes are not about attracting any meaningful, legitimate investment in the real economy of europe. they are designed for shady business, shady money and shady characters. now, already in 2014, colleagues, this house called for a ban on golden passports. then, in 2017, daphne caruana galizia was murdered, among other things because she exposed the corruption—riddled trade in passports. today, the war in ukraine puts the spotlight on this problem. russians are the largest group of third—country nationals that have obtained golden passports and golden visas in the eu, many of them oligarchs with links to putin’s kremlin. they escape sanctions merely by waving their nice eu passports. it must end. a large majority in parliament sends a very clear message to you, mr commissioner, a message that cannot be ignored. the commission has to put legislative proposals on the table before the end of the year. now is not the time to first wait for the blessing of the member states to ban these schemes, as it is actually those same member states that exploit those schemes. so now is the time for the commission to be independent in the service of europe and its security. president von der leyen, incidentally, promised us to consider legislative initiative reports by parliament as if we have the full right of initiative. so today would be a very good day to honour that promise. parliament has done its homework. we have put on the table a complete and detailed set of proposals. now let the national governments explain why they still think it’s a good idea for russian oligarchs to get eu citizenship or residency rights. first, we want to phase out golden passports, no more sale of citizenship. second, we call for very strict regulation of the golden visa to the point that they will lose their attractiveness for callous opportunists. background checks shall be tightened, intermediaries shall be strictly regulated, and a requirement of physical presence shall be strictly enforced. we also call for rules governing the investment itself. it should not be enough to just buy a house or a villa. the investment must be in the real economy and in line with the climate and social objectives of the union. and if countries monetise their eu membership in this way, then it’s only reasonable that they share that profit with their fellow europeans in the form of a levy. the proceeds of which will be an own resource for the eu budget. and finally, third countries, often mini states – ‘statelets’ – who benefit from visa—free travel in the european union should be banned from issuing golden passports as they have become the new route into the eu for undesirable characters. commissioners, we are looking forward to your proposals. consider this as support for a new initiative and independence of the commission. and finally, i would like to thank all my shadow rapporteurs because this report is truly the fruit of a collective effort. so thank you all very much.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, sophia int veld, and the libe committee, and all those who have contributed to this important owninitiative report. this report deals with issues of particular importance to the union's values, solidarity between member states and risks to the union's security. these are issues of vital importance in the context of the recent political developments, in particular, of course, the russian aggression in ukraine. i would like to reiterate what the president of the commission has already stressed in her state of the union address in 2020: european values are not for sale. the sale of citizenship, through what are sometimes called 'golden passports', poses serious risks, as the commission has repeatedly stated, in terms of security, the fight against corruption, money laundering and tax evasion. the commission fully shares the concerns of the european parliament and the objective of taking action to abolish citizenship by investment programmes in all member states as soon as possible. these systems, as you know, are in place in some member states and allow wealthy investors and often their family members to obtain a passport in exchange for a large sum of money or a substantial investment. however, this is often done without any real link to the member state in question, without any real establishment on its territory and without any investment in the real economy. these programmes have clear implications for all the other member states and for the european union as a whole. a foreign investor who acquires the nationality of a member state can, on this basis, enjoy freedom of movement in any other member state. they can engage in economic activities and even participate in the democratic process, in particular by exercising their right to vote in european or local elections. this is something the commission cannot accept. our position is very clear: the member states concerned must abolish their citizenship by investment programmes, because these programmes are in breach of eu law. i reminded the ministers of justice of all the member states of this at the last justice council last friday. the commission has worked actively to keep this issue on the political agenda. as you know, the commission launched two infringement procedures in october 2020 against malta and cyprus, with the aim of abolishing their citizenship-by-investment schemes. i'm sure many of you will remember the debate we had in plenary at that time. we consider that the granting by these member states of their nationality and thus of eu citizenship in exchange for a predetermined payment or investment and without a genuine link with the member state concerned, is not compatible with the principle of sincere cooperation enshrined in article 4 of the treaty on european union, and with the concept of eu citizenship as defined in article 20 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in parallel, the commission has been in close contact with bulgaria, which also operates a citizenship-by-investment scheme. i can now report some positive developments to you. cyprus has brought its citizenship-by-investment scheme to an end, and the bulgarian parliament is currently considering a bill to abolish the country's scheme. the final vote is a matter of days. the commission welcomes the recent announcement of the maltese authorities that they would suspend their citizenship-by-investment programme for russian and belarusian citizens. this is a positive first step. it is all the more unacceptable in the present context that wealthy russian or belarusian citizens become european citizens through such a system and thus enjoy privileged access to our internal market, in particular to our financial system. in the joint declaration of the g7 of 26 february on economic measures taken in the context of the ukrainian crisis, signed by the commission, france, germany, italy, the united kingdom, canada and the united states, we have in particular committed ourselves to taking certain measures to limit the sale of citizenship. to sum up, let me underline that the request in parliament's report to phase out citizenship by investment schemes is fully in line with the commission's priorities. i am grateful that parliament's report welcomes the infringement procedures we launched. this is the best way to phase out citizenship by investment schemes in the member states. this would also naturally lead, for example, to an end of the activities of the intermediaries involved in the development and promotion of such schemes, which is another request in your report. with regard to parliament's request for legislation to phase out citizenship by investment schemes, the legal and political feasibility of such a legislative proposal would need to be carefully assessed, in particular at a time when infringement proceedings are still ongoing. let me just conclude with a few words concerning some other requests contained in the report and referring to citizenship by investment schemes, such as the creation of a new category of own resources based on the investments made through these schemes. i would like to stress that the commission considers that such a measure would risk legitimising such schemes. our position is very clear: these schemes must be completely abolished and should not be legitimized in any way. i thank you for your support for our action. i shall be glad to hear your views during the debate and to continue our fruitful discussion on this important file, and to insist that now we just have to receive a final decision in malta about the abolition of the complete scheme for all the different people who try to become, to be through that way, members of the national authorities, members of the national member states. and i want to say that it's very important for us to have a final decision as soon as possible, and we will continue to use all the tools at our disposal to reach this goal. of course, i will now have the pleasure, madam president, if you agree, of giving the floor to my colleague ylva johansson, who will address residence by investment schemes, the other part of the report.
member of the commission. – madam president, ms in ’t veld, honourable members, 11 days ago, on 24 february, we woke to the news of war on the continent of europe. in an unprovoked invasion, putin is bringing down overwhelming force on a much smaller, sovereign neighbour. on the front page that day after the invasion, olena kurilo, a teacher, her bandaged and bloodied face in silent condemnation in a silent call to action. and we have heeded that call. last week, the member states unanimously agreed to welcome all refugees from putin’s aggression by activating the temporary protection directive, and the eu has imposed massive sanctions to say this will not stand and to cripple the kremlin’s ability to wage aggressive war. if you are fleeing putin’s war, you are warmly welcome here. if you are supporting putin’s war of aggression, you are not welcome. in parliament’s resolution last week you spoke out against residence investment schemes for rich russians with links to the regime, and president metsola called last week to close all possible loopholes. as just mentioned by my colleague didier reynders, the commission and members of the g7 committed to limiting sale of golden passports. several eu member states are taking or considering steps to limit access to investment—based residence permits for russians. but this is not only about russia and not only about this terrible war. eu residence, eu citizenship are among our greatest assets, giving access to our union, our area of freedom, security and justice, treasured around the world, and this valuable commodity is sold cheaply. you can buy eu residency in some member states for eur 500 000 – a lot of money for an ordinary person, but peanuts for organised crime. it’s time to act. madam rapporteur, sophie in ’t veld, your report on citizenship and residence by investment schemes could not be more timely. for many years, parliament has raised its voice against golden passports and platinum permits, citizens and residents investment schemes, schemes that give the rich and wealthy shortcuts to free movement, shortcuts to eu citizenship. and at no time has this question become more acute, more urgent than it is now. you can count on the commission’s support to address the risks posed by these schemes. risk to security, money laundering, tax evasion and corruption. and we have taken action. existing eu legislation addresses some of the parliament’s concerns. applicants for residence by investment schemes are checked in eu and international databases, including the schengen information system. we consistently assess risks raised by investor citizenship schemes in third countries. i recently proposed to suspend the visa exemption with vanuatu on grounds of public policy and security because other third—country nationals can too easily get access to the european union. this suspension will enter into force on 3 may. we exercise constant pressure on all visa—free countries running citizenship by investment schemes and with results. several visa—free countries have decided to terminate their schemes or have put on hold plans to set up new schemes. and we will do more. you can count on the commission to follow up on your report. investment residence schemes may never be a shortcut to citizenship. that’s why i am considering strengthening checks on continuous residence as part of our current revision of the long—term residence directive. we must prevent people from using these schemes to falsify their tax residence by ensuring implementation of the directive on administrative cooperation with infringement procedures if necessary. the anti—money laundering framework helps to reduce the risk. we will look at further measures. you ask for many different measures to eliminate and mitigate risks covering many different aspects. we will analyse all these requests very carefully and, where necessary, propose legislation. i will continue to work together with you following up on this report. as a first and important step, very soon, the commission will present a recommendation to all member states addressing residence permits and citizenship under investor schemes, in particular in the current context.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, for many, many years, we have been warning the commission and the member states about the risks and dangers of golden passports. we’ve been sharing our concerns about security, money laundering, tax evasion, corruption and organised crime in connection with these schemes, even arguing why eu citizenship should never be for sale, as it goes against the very values of the european union and even has the potential to undermine those values. but for many, many years, our warnings have fallen on deaf ears. and now, with russia invading ukraine and starting a horrific war on our continent, it seems that member states – apart from malta obviously – have finally woken up and realised that it might not be the best idea to offer a backdoor into europe for each and every individual with loaded pockets, and god knows what intentions, especially given the fact that 50% of these passports end up in russian hands. both commissioners today said it’s time to act. i say, better late than never, because those words need to be put into action now and not only temporarily or for the short term, we need a long-term solution. in that regard, the call of roberta metsola, our president, directly on the leaders of europe to close these loopholes and end the dangerous phenomenon of golden passports was very important. we must ban the sale of eu passports and stop the flow of dirty russian money into the european union. as we are facing putin’s aggression, we must take decisive action at the european level. the legislative initiative we’re discussing today is the best long-term possibility to eradicate golden passports and to ensure that any residence for money scheme in the eu goes hand-in-hand with watertight security checks and thorough vetting of high risk individuals. let us be absolutely clear: the so-called russian elite with links to the kremlin and dubious self-serving investments cannot be welcome in the eu.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, ‘eu values are not for sale’. do you all remember? i am quoting president von der leyen. presidenta von der leyen, en su discurso de investidura y, sobre todo, en el discurso sobre el estado de la unión de 2020, la presidenta de la comisión se comprometió a atender el requerimiento firme y enérgico que viene sosteniendo la comisión de libertades civiles, justicia y asuntos de interior desde 2014, cuando, en lo peor de la gran recesión, se generalizaron en —¡cierto!— chipre, malta, bulgaria, pero también en otros doce estados miembros de la unión europea, estos esquemas de adquisición privilegiada de la residencia que da lugar a la libre circulación y abre el plazo para obtener la ciudadanía y el pasaporte de la unión europea a quien quiera comprarlo con dinero procedente de negocios corruptos, de negocios ilícitos, de la evasión fiscal. esta normativa no solamente es abyecta; es inmoral y es contraria directamente a los valores europeos, y, por eso, hemos exigido una y otra vez, y de nuevo en esta resolución —que tiene como ponente a nuestra colega sophia in 't veld—, que se ponga fin a esos esquemas de adquisición privilegiada de la ciudadanía o la residencia por inversión. pero todo esto cobra una importancia recrecida ante la evidencia de que la unión europea está obligada a crecer en su respuesta, de una vez, ante la intolerable agresión de putin contra ucrania. es cierto que la unión europea no es una potencia militar, pero tiene que emplear todo su hard power para poner coto a esos oligarcas rusos que han comprado mansiones, palacios, castillos y yates de precios prohibitivos en toda la geografía de la unión europea. incluso estados miembros que tienen ahora gobiernos progresistas, como portugal y como españa, han heredado de sus gobiernos conservadores leyes infames que permiten esa adquisición de la residencia que tienen que ser derogadas por un instrumento normativo de la comisión. por eso esperamos esa iniciativa legislativa prometida por la presidenta von der leyen que ponga fin a los visados dorados y a los pasaportes dorados. ¡no a los oligarcas rusos! ¡no a los visados dorados! ¡no a los pasaportes dorados!
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, according to a parliament study, between 2011 and 2019 more than 132 000 persons, including family members of applicants from third countries, obtained residence or citizenship in member states via citizenship or residence schemes, with a total investment estimated at eur 21.4 billion. last week, this house called for an end to golden visas for russian oligarchs. an urgent review of all of the beneficiaries of such citizenship or resident status needs to be made, and those attributed to russian oligarchs and their families – in particular of those linked to sanctioned individuals and companies – need to be immediately revoked. we are still not properly implementing rules in place that we have for countering money laundering. we need to enforce these rules immediately, especially in relation to the assets deposited and spent in the eu. we have these rules. we just need to properly use them and take the risks of money laundering arising from these schemes very seriously. we also need to significantly improve these rules with the new package. putin’s invasion has once again highlighted the massive consequences of issuing golden visas and golden passports. we need to acknowledge not only the huge revenues brought by these schemes, but also the consequences, which are far worse, namely that these schemes bear major risks in the areas of security, corruption, money laundering and tax avoidance. examples such as russian oligarchs purchasing islands in eastern finland by using a cyprus passport, or russian billionaires receiving a separate passport in exchange for investing in the bank of cyprus, need to be immediately stopped. i am therefore calling on the commission to come up with proposals that will definitely ban this kind of scheme and to propose new laws to harmonise and govern the rules on residence-by-investment schemes. and i am calling on the member states to carefully look at those real-estate registries and check whether those investments are in luxury villas or in properties, or in the economy, industry and better lives for people, because this is what investment stands for.
mr president, commissioner, it is essential that we cherish at every moment the essence of democracy and what underpins our societies, namely freedom of expression, freedom of association. a democracy cannot be viable as long as fundamental rights are restricted and civil society is not at ease. we see what's happening in europe today, where a tyrant first restricted access to free speech, eliminated civil society, and now kills people just because they don't want to think like putin. we have no right to miss this chance to preserve the beauty of democracy as it is, through an active, secure, credible and engaged civil society. i think that's the europe we want to build further.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european union is one of the main destinations for those seeking refuge from war or even poverty. we have seen waves of refugees fleeing their war-torn countries. and we see the wave of refugees after putin's war against ukraine. we see this every day in romania, hungary, the republic of moldova, poland and slovakia. this report emphasises the need for all refugee children to have access to education as soon as possible. if we really want to help, food and shelter are not enough. we must ensure that all these children have direct access to quality, inclusive education, perhaps with their mother tongue taught alongside other european languages, to avoid the risk of exclusion from the outset, and that they can decide at the right time whether they will contribute to the reconstruction of their country of origin or to the development of their adopted country. inclusive education and mutual learning is the only way to an open society, to the progress we need as a human race.
madam president, the european union's greatest asset is its single market of almost 450 million consumers, a market which brings economic benefits and wellbeing to small and medium-sized enterprises in all european countries and can ensure economic prosperity for all. we're trying to harmonize legislation, reduce red tape, while increasing the safety of all products that are put on the consumer market. we want to create an environment where fair competition is a real attribute. and yet, we cannot talk about fair competition as long as we have borders within the european union. goods produced in non-schengen countries wait at the border for hours, even days, and even if this is a side effect, the waiting times add additional costs for smes in non-schengen countries. my dear colleagues, we must do everything possible to eliminate the borders within the european union.
madam president, the brutality of russia's criminal invasion of ukraine has shocked the entire democratic world. i am sure that this situation presents us with at least three new challenges. the first is the need to do everything possible to help the brave ukrainians who are fighting for freedom and democracy across europe today. ukrainians today are teaching patriotism to the world. and i believe i will live to see the day when their representatives will be in this chamber of ours. the second challenge is defensive. we must urgently improve the defence of our eastern border, because today it is an aggressor who threatens with nuclear weapons. the protection against cyberattacks is a special category, and we must not forget about disinformation and meaningless propaganda. the third challenge is energy. it's important that we don't finance the aggressor and achieve energy independence from russia as soon as possible. we need to act together in building energy infrastructure, in joint purchasing, as well as in developing renewable resources. no one knows how long the war criminal will continue to attack innocent ukrainians. but i am confident that we can meet these new challenges, that free people can defeat a mad dictator, and that peace can reign in europe. democracy and a functioning european peace project are the best guarantee of this.
madam president, i want to speak tonight for some friends - for maria, for sasha, for veronika, for katya and for their mother. this is a refugee family from ukraine, who i met yesterday and talked to a lot. these ukrainians, these people left on the morning of february 24th, hearing the bombs, thinking it was an earthquake and saying, we wish it was an earthquake. well, these people have arrived in europe and expect us to be able to work. they're waiting for us to communicate. i can't accept having roaming charges. i can't accept not having papers as soon as possible. i can't accept that they can't speak their own language. and i think that dear friends, dear colleagues with 1.5 million ukrainians who are all over europe and with a much larger number coming over us, we must be prepared to tear down all the barriers that still exist, because these people are brothers. these people are europeans, they are our sisters, and our daughters, and our boys, and our children. i encourage you all, dear ones, to make their lives as beautiful as possible in europe.
madam president, madam commissioner, you come from the war-affected area. i have met these days with citizens fleeing the path of war, at all three common border points of romania with ukraine. i've seen hundreds, thousands of refugees who are affected by this unjust war. romania treats refugees as a state with a european attitude, as we should be. but i want to raise here, in the european parliament, a question which concerns our borders, which we are today guarding very well and effectively. we have met the criteria for schengen for ten years and we have been postponed for ten years. it is unfair that romania and bulgaria are being sanctioned and treated as if they were not eu member states. the treaty is being violated by this injustice and i insist that romania and bulgaria be accepted into the schengen area as soon as possible.
mr president, mr vice-president borrell, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. i think your experience is very important in order to relate with the greatest accuracy the risks facing the european union today. we know very well that in the kremlin we have a tyrant who despises democracy and has tried, and it seems that up to this hour has succeeded in eliminating freedom of expression in the russian federation and silencing civil society. and that's what putin wants to export to europe today: disinformation, diversion. it has moved its fight from the front lines to the homes of european citizens through the instruments it controls. the most exposed at the moment to these tools of disinformation are the citizens of the states that have broken away from the u.s.s.r. and they are the ones we must support, mr. vice president borrell. your visit to moldova was important, but this effort to support ukraine, moldova and georgia must continue because these countries have a european vocation, and we will be able to close the door on putin forever and stop him from this adventure when we bring them all into the european union.
madam president, authoritarian regimes and dictatorships are based on lies and deceit. they have mastered these weapons and have now turned them against us. expertly crafted misleading news undermines civic engagement and creates a parallel reality. for example, the kremlin has launched a full—scale war against ukraine and has succeeded in convincing the russian public that this is just a ‘special operation’. china imprisoned and exploited more than a million uyghurs in forced labour camps, but continues to cover up its crimes with vocational education and training centres. we cannot allow our european society to be manipulated in this way any longer. let us remove these sputniks from our information orbit. let us prevent the propagandists of authoritarian regimes and dictatorships from being accredited. let us protect and support the work of independent media. only then will the minds and hearts of europeans be protected. this is our common goal.
madam president. we’ve got this very important discussion on this very important report, and what we could hear from commissioner jourová was that she’s very happy about the ban – netflix’s ban in russia. are you serious? are you really serious? we need a ban on russian oil and gas before you have your satisfaction on a netflix ban. so before the discussion turns into the grotesque, remember that germany, the so-called european leaders, are against the ban on russian oil and gas, and money from the gas and oil will go to the russian army and the russian army will kill ukrainian children. so before this discussion turns into the grotesque, remember that the ban on netflix is a joke, because people are dying. we need a ban on russian oil and gas now. remember, it’s germany who is against it and history will judge again. remember that.
madam president, war kills people – not a distant figure of speech but a cruel reality which putin has brought to our doorstep. but there are many ways to kill. autocrats with a skewed vision of the world have also learned to kill critical judgment, to poison people’s minds and souls for political gain. this kind of war can be as effective in annihilating enemies, in subduing societies and determining the future of nations. i speak, of course, of disinformation, fake news, of deliberately using the amplified effect of new digital technologies to undermine democracy. let’s call a spade a spade. we’ve allowed for years that regimes such as putin’s insinuated into our digital societies and created segregation, hatred and conflict. we saw its effects in elections across europe. we saw it in the us, we saw it in the brexit campaign. protecting our democracy and prosperity is therefore not just politics, it is the foundation for peace. we have a duty to fiercely protect our democracy from foreign interference and to decide to live in a healthy society where technology is used according to our values. i welcome this report and the work of the inge committee that provides the tools to fight for our democracy. let’s use them.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms kalniete, for her report, which is timely in the new circumstances of widespread attempts to destabilise the european neighbourhood and to disrupt the dynamics of democratic processes within the european union itself. ladies and gentlemen, working with keyboards and mobile devices has been going on for over a decade. i believe we are all aware of this, and we are now witnessing an unprecedented level of violation of the right of citizens, russian citizens to information, which is manifested in russia by blocking access to major platforms such as facebook, twitter and youtube and restricting access to western and independent russian media. ladies and gentlemen, the truth is what gets you in jail, and that's the answer to all those who ask why europe has taken the decision to ban pro-russian media that spread lies and disinformation. you know what money laundering is, and here's what information laundering is. i therefore welcome our report which also highlights the importance of media literacy as a key way of strengthening the ability of our citizens to identify disinformation in an age of inflammatory and manipulative rhetoric on social media and in public spaces. i also called on the european commission to take responsibility for drawing up a list of illegal surveillance software and for training staff in the institutions. ladies and gentlemen, transparency has never been more important, as has the proper marking of disinformation. in collaboration with european institutions and media houses, our strategic commitment must be to identify narratives of manipulation in the fight for truth.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i come from romania where, in the mid-1940s, the soviet union's foreign interference in the democratic process cost us half a century of communism. ladies and gentlemen, let no one pass through our experience. a few days ago, a ukrainian refugee arrived in bucharest describing russian disinformation. i quote: "when i sent my friends in russia videos of dead people near my house in kharkov, they stopped writing to me", i end the quote. the woman also said that she had been called by a cousin from crimea and invited her to stay with him until the russian army liberated kharkiv from the ukrainian nazi army, and finally, when the woman called her aunt from belarus to tell her that she had arrived safely in romania with her little girl, she asked her what she was looking for in the nato attackers. ladies and gentlemen, this is how russian disinformation works, and we must have the courage and the determination to dismantle putin's disinformation network in europe, the network that funds parties, politicians, journalists and analysts. we must do so because external interference is a serious breach of the values and principles on which our union is founded, such as human dignity, freedom, solidarity, democracy and the rule of law. thank you and happy birthday, ladies! (applause) thank you very much.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this important discussion. once again, this is a very important contribution to better understanding maybe where we are and what we need to do. and thank you for establishing the inge committee because already some time ago, many of us felt that too much, maybe everything, is at stake and that we need to pay more attention to the phenomena of disinformation and trying to decrease the trust of people in our democracy. a lot has been said here about freedom of speech. let me assure you that freedom of speech remains the golden grail for us. it does not change. it is in our european dna that we protect freedom of speech. but, freedom of speech is not absolute because by protecting absolute freedom of speech, we will resign on truth. and the society which resigns on truth, which forgets to value truth, is a weak society and is lost. and this is what must not happen to us. paní předsedající, dovolte mi nyní reagovat na pana uhríka. udělám to ve svém rodném jazyce, kterému pan uhrík dobře rozumí. pan uhrík přirovnal evropskou unii k orwellovi. jinými slovy řekl, že tím, že zakazujeme nebo že omezujeme možnost některých médií vysílat v evropě, zavádíme cenzuru. a já chci říct, že bychom si měli uvědomit, o čem tady mluvíme, mluvíme-li o válečné propagandě a dezinformacích, které se pojí k válce na ukrajině. dnes ráno jsem četla zprávu, že v nové nabídce dezinformací je zpráva, že válka na ukrajině je fake, že je vymyšlená a že to, co vidíme, jsou najatí herci. pane uhríku, opravdu věříte tomu, že šestiletá umírající holčička je najatá herečka? to, co jsme viděli před několika dny. opravdu věříte tomu, že včera zabitý osmnáctiměsíční chlapeček v mariupolu, v době, kdy mělo být zastaveno ostřelování, je najatý herec a jeho zoufalí rodiče jsou najatí herci? myslím si, že bychom si měli všichni uvědomit, o čem se tady bavíme a o jaké míře sprostoty a neúcty k lidskému životu mluvíme, pokud se bavíme o dezinformacích, které se váží k ukrajinské válce. já si myslím, že je to verbální barbarismus, který se pojí s barbarismem, který vidíme v reálné válce na ukrajině. i will come back to english because speaking about orwell, i think that what we see is orwell in russia. there we see that absolute power, which is not limited by checks and balances, leads to absolute evil. and the action of the eu against russia today and sputnik, i agree it’s a radical reaction in an extreme situation. it’s radical, it’s unprecedented and it’s necessary. i want to say one thing to conclude. what we see in the days following the start of russia’s invasion in ukraine, after 24 february, is that the investments of putin’s russia in creating sufficient power for disinformation in europe went in vain because it didn’t disappear, but it is weakened now. and we see that in spite of the years of massaging public opinion in the eu, especially in central and eastern europe, the people show that they did not believe it or they do not believe it now. and there is an extremely big and important wave of solidarity. i want to thank the people in poland, in hungary, in slovakia, in romania, in my country, for such a strong action helping the people who are fleeing the war. and this is now, this is today, but disinformation will gain again its power. i just imagine this is like the second wave of a tsunami. it will come and they are already starting and they will be harvesting the fear of people, they will be fuelling the fear of people, because there will be increased crises and there are already increased crises of energy. there will probably be increased crisis prices of food. there will be a big portion of discomfort which the european people are not used to, and we have to be ready for that. we have to strengthen all our actions against disinformation, everything we spoke about today, our action through the code of practice and many other things. but also we have to tell the people the truth ourselves because the best way of combating disinformation is the truth. and i think that we will need a mature society, well informed people, the people who will trust us and trust cannot come without the truth.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the quality of the debate we have had today. the european parliament was right to set up the inge committee 18 months ago. your careful and documented analysis demonstrates the range and diversity of measures facing our democracies. in order to justify and support its military aggression against ukraine, the russian federation has engaged in a continuous and concerted campaign of disinformation and manipulation of information targeting members of civil society in the european union and neighbouring countries, with serious distortion and manipulation of facts. on 2 march, the council adopted restrictive measures suspending the broadcasting activities of sputnik and russia today in the european union or towards the european union as a matter of urgency. these measures will be in force until the aggression against ukraine is brought to an end and until the russian federation and its associated media cease to engage in disinformation and manipulation of information against the european union and its member states. the presidency also supports the efforts of the european external action service and the commission to unmask the manipulation of information by media or websites close to the kremlin, which is intended to give a biased picture of the ongoing conflict and the role of the european union and europeans. it is also important that the major online platforms play their role in preventing and reducing the manipulation of information in this conflict. in general, the council is playing an active role in this area by reviewing commission initiatives in this area such as the european democracy action plan, the digital services legislation and the isr 2 directive, among others and by developing more comprehensive and ambitious responses to strengthen the resilience of our society and to combat disinformation attacks and hybrid threats. work is currently under way in the council to develop a european union mechanism to respond in a coordinated manner to hybrid information manipulation campaigns targeting the european union and its member states. let me again commend you for the great work you have done over the past year and a half. and let me assure you once again that the presidency and the council as a whole attach the utmost importance to protecting our democratic processes, institutions and societies from any foreign interference, including disinformation. the council will continue to support joint efforts to move forward by jointly developing ambitious and determined european responses to the issues under discussion. the european summit, which will be held at the end of this week in versailles, will deal in particular with this question. our heads of state and government, in the context we know, are taking this matter very seriously. the protection of our democratic processes, to which we are all committed - and today's debate has shown this once again - deserves that we concentrate all our efforts in a structured and common way.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, tuesday, 8 march 2022, and the final vote on wednesday, 9 march 2022. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. external interference, manipulation of information and disinformation are serious violations of the eu's core values, undermining the democratic process. the report notes the need for a coordinated eu strategy against external interference. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the eu must invest more in the development of vital infrastructure, especially in strategic sectors such as trade and security. cybersecurity and cyber resilience are increasingly important given the increasing trend of cyber incidents triggered by hostile states such as russia and china.
in writing. foreign interference constitutes a serious violation of the universal values such as human dignity, freedom, equality, respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law on which the eu is founded. the evidence shows that information manipulation is particularly used by authoritarian foreign state and non-state actors, who use various tactics to interfere with democratic processes in the eu. the incidence of cyberattacks has been increasing in recent years. several of them were tracked by state-sponsored hacking groups with ties to the russian and chinese governments. these included actions such as a global spear-phishing e-mail campaign targeting strategic vaccine repositories or attacks against the european medicines agency (ema) and the norwegian parliament. such attacks mislead and deceive citizens and influence their electoral behaviour, divide, polarise and exploit vulnerable sides of societies, promote hate speech, aggravate the situation of vulnerable groups, who are more often the victims of disinformation, and aim to destabilise european democracy. it is therefore important to work systematically to protect the eu in this area.
in writing. i support the report prepared by the european parliamentary committee on external interference in democratic processes within the european union, including disinformation, because the document summarises the work of the last two years of investigation, analysis and formulation of solutions, within this special committee of which i am a member and to whose hearings i have invited romanian experts in combating fake news. the report is very broad, covering everything from the relations of eu parties with third countries, including their obscure funding from outside the union and the problem of recruiting european elites, to the vulnerabilities of the media and the role of social media platforms. i draw attention to the call on the european commission to propose a coordinated and cross-sectoral strategy, with adequate financial resources, based on resilience policies and embodied in instruments to deter hybrid attacks against the eu, as well as in a common sanctions regime. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against fraud, corruption and organised crime.
mr. chairman, how we respond today to putin's aggression against ukraine and its people will define the kind of world we live in. ukraine today is fighting for our common shared values, freedom and democracy and we must do everything to end this aggression and heartbreaking human tragedy. hundreds of thousands, mostly women and children, are fleeing the threat of war. hundreds of thousands of women and children whose future has become one big question overnight. i was involved in the coordination myself in the first hours and days, and i met in person with the volunteers and organizations that have been helping these people since day one. thank you for all these acts of humanity and solidarity. i'm glad people can come together to help those in need. this unity and solidarity across europe, across my country slovakia, gives us a chance to return to the core values on which a free, democratic, prosperous and peaceful europe was built after the second world war. as pope francis said almost two years ago, as we faced the onset of the pandemic: "we are in the same boat, all fragile and disoriented, but at the same time important and necessary, all called to row together". because only united in truth and principle can we solve the challenges we face. only united can we stop the tragedy unfolding before our eyes. and only together can we defend freedom and democracy.
millions of women in ukraine did not imagine that they would have to celebrate and celebrate as they should have, in fact, celebrated women's day in 2022 in such tragic conditions. commissioner johansson said she was in romania to see the border crossing at siret. and he was telling you what he saw there. but i'll tell you something i've seen: the sadness in the eyes of the women, of many tens of thousands of ukrainian women, who are with their children, holding their hands, carrying them in their arms, trying to save them by crossing, after days and days of standing in the cold, the border with romania, because that sadness is for their children. those women don't know what the future will be for these children. many lost their fathers killed by bombs or simply because they gave their lives in defense of ukraine. their homes were destroyed. what is the future of these children? and mrs. johansson was talking about this major concern. i want to give you another very hard example: a woman died because after three days of standing in the cold in ukraine - and, by the way, tomorrow it was announced that it would be minus 20 degrees in ukraine for the next few days - she had to stay at the border between romania and hungary for almost another day. he died of exhaustion. here is an injustice that is due to the fact that romania is not in schengen, and someone should bear this responsibility, be it personal or moral.
mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian catastrophe which the russian war against ukraine is unleashing is a great challenge for europe: the women and children who are fleeing war today and who are in danger of becoming widows and orphans tomorrow need to be taken in immediately. we have seen the generosity of europeans, starting with the citizens of the neighbouring countries, the poles, the slovaks, the hungarians, the romanians, and the immediate reaction of the european institutions in guaranteeing humanitarian legal protection to the ukrainian refugees. we have seen the beautiful face of europe, a face that has been missed too often in recent years, when other peoples were fleeing war. we will have to take in many millions of ukrainians and the effort will have to be a joint one, from estonia to portugal, from finland to cyprus. there is only one europe. but this must also be an opportunity to adopt mechanisms and rules that apply regardless of the european borders of entry; we must reform the dublin treaty immediately and make solidarity and humanity a european rule.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we seem to be succeeding in dealing with the refugees from ukraine, whereas in recent years we have unfortunately failed to agree on and put into practice a common attitude and a solidarity approach towards refugees. for the first time in the history of the european union, we have activated the mass entry directive to provide refugees with targeted, non-bureaucratic assistance, from care to work permits. the real test is yet to come. but all this shows us what is possible when there is the political will to act together in solidarity, quickly, decisively. but there is still much to be done. flight and migration remain at the top of our agenda. not just because of war, not just because of rising violence, not just because of rising conflict, not just because of climate change, not just because of corona, not just because of the shortage of manpower, not just in the nursing field. we must therefore maintain this political will for a new approach to a common policy on asylum and migration with a fair distribution key, for an independent energy union and a social union, for a common foreign, security, defence and development policy. but let me say this in conclusion: there is really no alternative to ending war, to living in peace and freedom.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing putin's war, it has no other name. their brutal aggression against ukraine is a barbarity that has awakened political europe. in the face of dictatorship, european democracy will win. the union is acting swiftly, unitedly and in solidarity, breaking down dogmas and taboos. today our thoughts and hearts are with the ukrainian people and, on this international women's day, especially with the women and girls who are suffering, fleeing and even dying. we must therefore continue to support with humanitarian and military aid the citizens who have decided to fight heroically in ukraine. but above all, ladies and gentlemen, the union must be a land of welcome without frontiers. the activation of the temporary protection directive should ensure a fair distribution of refugees, relieving the countries on the front line. and finally, commissioner, you have said it. i call for special protection measures to be taken to ensure that women and girls do not fall into the hands of human traffickers.
mr president, commissioner johansson, minister, happy 8th of march to all women, but especially to those who are now fleeing russian bombs and bullets with little children in their arms or are staying and fighting for their country, ukraine. dear colleagues, we will soon have two million refugees in europe. the response of romania, poland, slovakia, hungary and the european citizens is a living proof of the european solidarity to which i bow. but there is a long-term crisis ahead and we urgently need european coordination, resources and adequate protection for those affected. we have launched an appeal to the european commission to create a single european portal, accessible to refugees from ukraine. i have called for civil society and local authorities, who are on the front lines now, to be urgently supported with adequate funding and resources. commissioner, the commission and the member states must ensure that temporary protection is activated at european union level. refugees must have prompt access to counselling, education, health, housing, social services and employment. it's up to all of us to show that in these dark times, humanity will prevail. thank you, ukraine!
mr. chairman, the number of refugees from russia's escalating aggression against the civilian population is growing steadily. according to today's figures, more than two million people have already left ukraine. the largest number of refugees were in poland, with 1.2 million, in hungary, with more than 190,000, and in slovakia, with more than 140,000. these figures do not include refugees migrating within their own country, and people who would like to leave their homes but cannot do so for fear of their safety. the failure to respect the ceasefire in the creation of humanitarian corridors is the most acute and fatal problem of ukrainian refugees. this is where the space is for all of us to exert all diplomatic and economic pressure on the aggressor to guarantee the security of humanitarian corridors. however, the real assistance to refugees is mainly provided at member state level. within the union, i would like to express my particular appreciation for the activation of the european directive on the temporary protection of refugees from ukraine. today we also need to redirect european funds to help refugees and to mobilise other funds for this purpose. we owe it to them, because it is the ukrainians who are fighting and dying on the front lines for our values of democracy and freedom. in addition to investing in basic humanitarian aid for human beings and their immediate future, we also need to strengthen the infrastructure of local and regional governments and member states. allow me also, from this place, ladies and gentlemen, to thank all the people of good will who are showing their great heart and helping the brave ukrainians. i thank you from the bottom of my heart for your help and your sacrifice.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear ukrainians, europe’s greatest humanitarian catastrophe of this century is unfolding before our eyes. because of the russian massacres, around two million people – mainly mothers with children, have left ukraine. i was on the polish-ukrainian border a few days ago and saw a never-ending flow of refugees from ukraine to poland. on a freezing night, yet another train carrying 1500 women and children arrived at the przemyśl station. this is the reality in europe in the year 2022. i am grateful to the polish people and to others on the border of ukraine who are helping the incoming refugees as best they can. the whole of europe must give its full support to poland and the countries that receive the refugees first. but the massacres of putin’s regime in ukraine continue, meaning that the flow of refugees will continue. hundreds of thousands of people are trapped in mariupol and other cities. these people need safe humanitarian corridors, and they need them now. the only possibility for the flow of refugees from ukraine to stop and for the people of ukraine to be able to return to their homeland is when putin’s regime will be defeated and pushed back and ukraine is free and safe again. for this the strength and determination of the whole free world is desperately needed.
respected ! any help, any donation can save a life! the people in ukraine and the people fleeing the war need our help, shelter, medicine. putin's brutal russian aggression against ukraine is forcing millions of people to flee. we're watching the suffering of mothers, children, the elderly. the sights are heartbreaking. it's unacceptable that aid workers can't save lives. the refugee wave today is the largest since world war ii. but the reception is warm. anyone fleeing war should be welcome in the european union. we need to take people in, give them shelter, education, doctors, jobs. today we're talking to the ukrainians. we want peace. europe has awakened to a different world. war and humanitarian disaster are a great test for us. we can be proud that countries that traditionally closed the door have now opened it. slovenia also. all refugees are human beings, regardless of gender, color, race, or religion. on international women's day, our thoughts are with ukrainian women, mothers, girls. in our name and theirs, we demand peace.
mr. chairman, please! today is a holiday for ukrainian women, as some of them, on an equal footing with men, are fighting for the freedom of their homeland, while others are fleeing, leaving their homes to save their lives and the lives of their loved ones. still others mourn the death of their children. and i can't understand why the world supports criminals, people who, out of fear, hatred, lust for power and wealth, are able to make hell on earth for others. the heroism and courage of president zelensky and the ukrainian people should be a guide to how to behave with dignity. and the governments and politicians who feed putin, who don't want to impose sanctions, don't behave. but there are thousands of poles and thousands of europeans who are behaving with dignity, who are opening their hearts and their homes. and from this place i would like to thank the people of my podkarpatie, which borders ukraine, for your heart, support and help. local governments, volunteers, ngos, and those who support poles in this aid to ukrainians. today, there are over a million women and children in poland. they need a home, security, schools, jobs, psychological support. they need information about when their lives will return to normal, and it turns out, and i think everything indicates, that it won't be anytime soon. that's why i'm calling on the european union today, on politicians, to step in with help, with real help. support local governments, organizations, volunteers and ordinary people financially. without money and political decisions, there will only be more pain and tragedy. thank you so much! glory to ukraine!
commissioner, colleagues, i've been to several border crossings with ukraine. that is why i begin by congratulating the staff who are dealing with border protection, especially the romanian border, for the professionalism they show. romania ensures border protection as well as any schengen country. i thank the hundreds of volunteers who have stepped up to help the refugees, including my colleagues at pes activists romania for what they do for the children of ukraine. however, the situation is difficult and is likely to get worse. we have over a million and a half refugees, but the total estimated number is over five million. an integrated european response is needed to ensure the extended support of frontex including in the republic of moldova, additional funding and better coordination, the implementation of child-specific measures, the creation of safe areas in the border area in coordination with local authorities and civil society, a more flexible status for refugees, a medium and long-term plan for migrants from ukraine and, not least, the uniform implementation of measures by all member states.
today, on march 8th, first of all a thought of respect for all women in the world, but especially for the ukrainian ones for their courage proved either on the front or on the way of the pilgrimage to protect their children. commissioner, i would like to make some very concrete proposals and requests to the european commission. first, many of those who left ukraine and are in the european union need health and education services. this is a competence of the member states, but the european commission, in addition to the funding it provides for the support of the member states, should also ensure the coordination of these actions so that all refugees have access to these services, regardless of the differences between member states in education and health policy. secondly, a very large number of refugees, after leaving the country, are in the european union. they need information. it would be very useful to have a single telephone number valid throughout the european union to which they could have access and, also in this context, roaming for a few months, temporarily, free of charge for ukrainians in the european union. it would help him a lot to communicate with those who are left at home.
president, lives do not count for dictator putin. he sows death and destruction. he's been firing rockets and artillery at random into cities across ukraine. millions are fleeing, mostly to the west. a question that comes up is: why doesn't the russian orthodox church condemn putin's violence? it is the church's sacred duty to condemn this violence by putin. the small country of moldova, with a population of about three million, is faced with the challenge of taking in over a hundred thousand refugees. this is not something that europe's poorest country can afford. moreover, everyone in moldova is asking themselves: are we next in line? and that question is all the more pressing because of course there are already a lot of russian troops in transnistria. so we have to help moldova first. the role of serbia is questionable. the country voted for the un resolution condemning the russian invasion, but on the other hand you see large pro-russian demonstrations in serbia. and you also see that where all the countries have stopped flights to moscow, air serbia has doubled the number of flights. it is high time we reconsidered serbia's eu membership application. before you know it, we'll be in serbia bringing in the trojan horse!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate today on how to take in millions of refugees must not be merely symbolic. our credibility, our values, our economy are at stake. i, in the meantime, would like to thank the many volunteers and associations, the doctors, the nurses, the local administrators, the national governments who are doing everything to welcome the victims of this conflict. charity and humanitarian aid are essential, but they are not enough to face this epochal transition. a strong political europe is needed. we have a duty to welcome and integrate refugees into an economic system which is currently in great difficulty and which needs to be strengthened. the proposals approved by the european commission to promote our energy independence are certainly a first step forward, but we need european, not national, ceilings on energy prices, but we also need a plan for food independence. and to deal with this new crisis we are calling for a new permanent fund for the construction of the common european home financed by the joint issue of debt securities. to do what? funds to support enterprises facing increased sanctions burdens, common migration policies, common industrial and energy policy, common defence, green transition and raw material storage infrastructure.
today, on their birthday, ukrainian women don't get flowers. i get blood, suffering and tears. today, they also receive separation from their husbands, their husbands, their sons, their children. this is the greatest human tragedy since world war ii, an exodus of women and children. what can we do for them? they need to go to hospital, they need to have papers, they need to go to school and they even need a job here in europe. we europeans must treat them as our own because they are our own, they are our european brothers. from their poverty, mr. commissioner, the romanians gave everything, they didn't bother to open their house, put on the table the trinkets, the yarn, wait for half a bed. they gave everything they had. but the help of these people, of these angels, is not enough when we're talking about five million, seven million people. union, listen: let us give as we have never given before, for the suffering of the present is nothing compared to it. what putin destroys with one hand, we can destroy with two.
in writing. in general, the military crisis and the food crisis are interdependent. when the first one is triggered, the second one automatically intervenes. in this particular case, however, of a war between the union's main energy supplier, such as russia, and the union's main supplier of corn, rapeseed and sunflower seed, such as ukraine, the consequences can be devastating. one global estimate shows that since the start of the war, prices of basic agricultural products have risen by as much as 10 percent. in some places in my country, romania, the price of bread has already gone up by a lion in just a few days. at european level, the commission must consider activating all possible instruments to avoid a food crisis, to mitigate the impact of food price increases and to calibrate the objectives of the 'green transition' to the new geopolitical reality. at national level, however, building the network of food storage centres is vital for romania. missing this opportunity from the funds allocated under the pnrr is reprehensible and must be corrected urgently. i therefore call on the european commission to urgently intervene in support of european farmers so that they are not left in the lurch, as they unfortunately have been during the pandemic.
madam president, i should like to welcome the commissioner back to the european parliament. the war in ukraine, the military invasion of the russian federation into ukraine, shows exactly why europe needs a strong economy. we will be able to face much easier the economic consequences of this war if our economy is strong, if our economy is competitive. this is valid during this crisis and this will also be valid during the next crisis, which for sure will occur. we do not know when the next crisis will occur, what its origins will be, but for sure, the next crisis will occur. and this is why our economies have to be strong. we will be hit harder if our economies are weaker and the best instrument that we have at european level to ensure the strength of our economies is the european semester. the european semester is now becoming more important also because of the recovery and resilience facility, the new funds which we are putting at the disposal of member states. and we have ensured that the country-specific recommendations and the european semester play a big role in this context. this is why our call towards the commission is to make sure that member states are implementing the reforms that they have committed to, and some reforms are more important. firstly, the structural reforms are very important. secondly, the fiscal consolidation. and thirdly, the growth-enhancing measures, because we are launching next generation eu. we have indebted ourselves, and in order to be able to repay back this debt, our economies have to be stronger because debt always has to be paid back in good times and in bad times. the rrf has also made the european semester more enforceable. we call on the commission, we expect the commission to work together with us, to work together with member states, to enforce the european semester now and for the future. we can also imagine a closer link between the european semester and other financial instruments of the union.
madam president, commission, council, the truth is that we are facing a debate at a delicate moment, a moment that we certainly did not envisage a few weeks ago when we were negotiating the report that is being adopted today - a robust report, a consistent report - and i would like to thank irene tinagli for her work in these weeks to achieve a large majority in this house. in any case, putin's war is already the central issue, as are the possible economic and social effects of this war, of course, in ukraine in the first place, but also in europe as a whole. and i think it has similarities and differences with the crisis that we seemed to be overcoming a few months ago from the effect of covid. we certainly have good examples of the response to the covid crisis: we were able to respond to that crisis with the construction of european public goods, we were able to jointly manage the purchase of vaccines, the investment in r&amp;d to develop those vaccines and also the policy of supporting recovery with the new generation eu and, of course, with the support of the european central bank as well. and in this crisis, the crisis in ukraine, european public goods are also at stake, the security of europeans - first and foremost - the independence and autonomy of our continent. but it is also true that there are some differences. probably the biggest difference is that we are facing a slowing economy, predictably a new recession, with very high inflation rates. and this, in some ways, changes substantially the frame of reference in which we must set out the community's responses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial perspective is not distorted. but we also need to think clearly about how we can collectively respond to that investment to accelerate energy independence, something slightly different from what we've done with the new generation eu.
madam president, the moment to reflect on the eu governance framework has come and it is now more important than ever. we have been through a pandemic which presented a challenge but also an opportunity to relaunch our economies and society, while accelerating the dual transition to green and digital in a more sustainable, resilient and inclusive manner. we have been very ambitious and successful in creating the recovery and resilience facility, and we have important lessons to learn from this. already, after the rrf experience of setting it up, we have lessons that we can use for revamping the semester. now, an irresponsible act of aggression of an independent country is creating a humanitarian crisis, an energy crisis and most certainly will reflect in economic and social consequences dire for the european union. the new economic governance framework needs to reflect all these lessons and be adapted to the new reality. so this is yet another argument to rethink the way the semester works. so what do we need to do is expand the basis of the semester to cover the new topics that we are talking about. we are talking right now, more and more, about social resilience, especially of our health and social protection systems, opportunities for the next generations, while looking at strategic autonomy, security, defence and economic well—being. it is time for a common response with solidarity and proper ambition – the eu style. so i’m looking forward to that.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, first we had the health crisis. the pandemic hit us, and it seemed like we were never going to recover from that shock. still, we had a good time. then there was the energy crisis, which still weighs on the shoulders of european citizens and puts all member states to the test. and it wasn't enough that we've been hit in the last two years by these two crises, because a criminal sitting in the kremlin decided that it was time to start a war and put unprecedented pressure on europe. in these times it is essential that we respond in a coordinated way to all these challenges. as difficult as the situation is, it is essential that in these times we have the capacity to coordinate our policies so that we can support the business environment, provide it with a predictable and stable framework, act with a lot of responsibility, because only through investment can we create new jobs, we can offer our citizens more security. millions of ukrainians are heading these days to the european union, because here they feel safe, because here they think they can give their children a future, because here they think they can find decent work. all these citizens are the ones we have to think about these days.
i have to say, madam president, every year, earth overshoot day moves further and further. the day marks the point at which we have used up the amount of resources that the earth can regenerate in a whole year. in 2021, the date was already july 29. we must dare to have high ambitions if we want to have a green planet with resources on which our children and our grandchildren can live well - also in the future. and that is precisely what is contained in the 8th environmental action programme which we are voting on. pressure from the european parliament has ensured that the ambitions for environment and sustainability are higher than in the commission's original outline. at the same time, we have ensured that there is a holistic approach, where climate and the environment are not seen as being disconnected from the economy or from the way we should be structuring our societies. the goal is clear: by 2050, we should all be able to live good lives without depleting the planet's resources. the eu must be climate neutral and circular, and biodiversity must be increased. and then the gaps in our society will be reduced. these are big but crucial goals for our future. but we also need to secure the road to get there. that is why we have clear targets for what we must achieve by 2030 and we are asking the commission to come forward with proposals by 2024 on how to make the sub-targets concrete. with the 8th environment action programme we are taking another important step towards a more sustainable world. a world where we're free of pollution and dangerous chemicals, leaving behind a greener planet than the one we've taken over.
madam president, commissioner, i wonder why we should believe that one crisis eliminates another and why not two crises at once are worse. i think we have multiple crises at once, and in a world invaded by tragedy, we need to focus on how we can get out from under the rubble. we cannot delay managing the crises we face, we cannot stop the efforts to reduce emissions, pollution, protect biodiversity and human health. at this point, the warnings from the scientific community about the climate crisis are getting more and more dire. the effects of climate change will wreak even more havoc, throwing the world into food insecurity, storms, fires, heat waves, floods. the new ipcc report reminds us that we still have a short window to implement important measures and avoid the scenario where action is already too little, too late. we can't continue to fund putin's military and war - you heard right, yes, we have funded this - through energy dependence on imports. and the solution is by no means europe's increasing long-term reliance on fossil fuels. it's not going to be easy, it's not going to be popular, for many of the member states, but not implementing climate action will come at a cost, eventually. the bigger question is how much it's going to cost us if we don't act now, if we remain passive. compliance with and implementation of your programme, the 2030 agenda for action, is a key step. the climate is changing as a result of human activity, and the change is accelerating because we're doing nothing. gentlemen, this is our destiny, to save the planet from many hands at once.
mr. president, as a doctor, i want the lives of every working citizen to be protected. the commission, members, the world has changed, as have the labour market and working conditions, and the war and the pandemic will continue to have consequences that are still difficult to assess. i have been working since the beginning of this pandemic in a coronavirus support hospital in iasi, the nicolae oblu emergency clinical hospital, a hospital that gives the exact time in emergency and neurosurgery at the european level and that has recently treated the first refugees from ukraine. you should know that new risk factors for occupational diseases have emerged and the problem of old ones has not yet been fully resolved. i find that one in five jobs in europe is of poor quality, and the differences in approach and legislation between member states only serve to create a risk factor and have immediate consequences, and the consequences are visible. in one year, in the european union, we have seen over three million occupational accidents with 3,000 deaths, 200,000 deaths from occupational diseases, 100,000 deaths from occupational cancer, and this is just the tip of the iceberg, because the real numbers are much higher, and that's why i think, at this point, i want every person's life to be protected, and that we need to adopt a different strategy today, a zero plan for occupational deaths, related to occupational diseases and accidents, and i know that we can do this today.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the european economy has suffered for two years from the impact of the covid-19 crisis, and now it will need to further adjust to strategic choices made to protect our citizens and our values against autocrats that violate peaceful order and international law. against all these challenges, we need a strong fiscal policy response that can encompass the strengths and overcome the weaknesses of all 27 national tax systems. this can be achieved through better digitalisation of national public administration in order to reduce the vat gap and to improve tax collection and information sharing across the union. stronger support for our smes; it is unthinkable right now for them to face the extra tax burden and the unnecessary red tape when they represent 99 % of businesses in the union and create two out of three private sector jobs. better use of the fiscalis programme, which offers eur 269 million to national tax authorities to cooperate better to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. strengthen the eu’s network of anti-fraud experts, eurofisc, and empower them with sufficient resources to effectively carry out risk analysis and coordinate investigations on vat fraud. this is how the renew europe group envisages the action plan on fair and simple taxation supporting the eu recovery, well reflected in the parliament position, for which i would like to thank our rapporteur, luděk niedermayer, and all the other shadow rapporteurs. but no action plan is possible if fiscal policies are a mere reflection of our political beliefs. they should be a portrait of our current reality, and the truth is that today we need to better protect the union’s financial interests. this requires flexibility and effectiveness. therefore, renew europe believes that the conference on the future of europe should represent a good opportunity for us to explore, with our citizens, the decision-making process used for taxation policies.
madam president, commissioner, the textile industry is one of the most important ecosystems in europe. tens of thousands of businesses, the vast majority of which are small and micro, are engaged in this activity which provides employment for millions of people. throughout history, the european textile industry has been at the forefront of innovation and global competitiveness. it is a source of pride and an important european asset that the textile strategy should value and help to grow even further. we all know that the industry has to transform, that it has to become greener, more circular and sustainable, take full advantage of digitisation and push reuse, recycling and waste reduction. at the same time, the textile strategy should create a positive framework for the sector, a framework that emphasises skills, technology, innovation, a framework that recognises the complexity of the challenges facing and faced by the sector, in particular in the context of the pandemic, that takes into account the complexity of the value chain, but also that rewards the resilience of the textile industry and all its contribution throughout our history and its heritage and legacy. commissioner, it is time to act for the sake of the sector and the competitiveness of european industry.
president, sustainable, green, conscious, recycled polyester ... as you walk through a clothing store, these terms are increasingly appearing on labels and posters. and then when you walk out of the store with your purchase in a recycled plastic bag, it almost feels like accountability. almost, because those hundreds of certificates that claim to be green are actually almost always wrong. it is almost never green and the conditions in which people work are from inappropriate to life-threatening even, in some cases. and if we look at what people earn to work in such conditions, it's certainly not a living wage. not in southeast asia, not in europe or on the fringes of our continent. and this exploitation behind a false facade of sustainability must end. it is high time to put an end to the growth in certification that is taking place in the sector. it is simply cheating at the expense of those who want to do what is right, and at the expense of people and the environment. i guess you can only say that everyone's gonna get hurt. both the consumer who wants to do good and the small emerging decent alternatives that are being competed away by the larger brands with their greenwashing. i think it is time for action, action against greenwashing, action for a sustainable sector, one that benefits people and the environment rather than being the butt of it.
madam president, the new strategy for sustainability in the fashion industry should, first of all, address the needs of consumers. nowadays, consumers are becoming more conscious of the impact of their clothing choices. in this regard, we have to support measures to implement minimum repairability requirements, minimum ecodesign standards for stress resistance and lifetime of products and components, and ban the use of hazardous chemicals and materials in clothing and textile products. it is time to act now. it is time because textile consumption in europe helped to leverage the fourth highest impact on the environment and climate change from a global lifecycle perspective in 2020. after food, housing and mobility, the clothing industry has one of the highest impacts on the planet since it represents 11 kilos per citizen in textiles and it produces about 20% of global wastewater and around 10% of global carbon emissions. in this regard, i insist that it is also important to support actions at eu level in order to increase the effectiveness of extended producer responsibility schemes by establishing an eu level definition for obligated producer and an eu level classification for when textiles become waste. we must ensure that the future will lead from fast fashion to sustainable clothing, meaning that we cannot accept half of working practices, overextraction of raw materials and high energy consumption.
madam vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen a real exodus of the textile industry from the european union to asian countries. we all know the reasons, because in many states in that area, production costs are much lower, and relocation has become necessary to have competitive prices. while globalization has many advantages, it also has drawbacks that we saw very clearly during the pandemic, when we had to wait for protective equipment, like masks, robes, to be shipped from asian countries. but the effects on the population of the european union have been seen for a long time, in the increase in unemployment among textile workers, mostly women, when factories were relocated to areas in asia -- as i said earlier -- where workers' rights or the impact on the environment are less regulated. even in my city of arad, in romania, this phenomenon has left hundreds of women out of work. so far no one has taken into account the environmental costs of these relocations, but with the green deal we need to assess the impact of pollution on the products we consume in the eu, even if they are produced elsewhere, if we want to talk about fair competition. last but not least, we will have to take into account the conditions under which our textiles are produced, in terms of working conditions, of the exploitation of workers. commissioner, the textile industry - if we are to talk about such an industry in europe - urgently needs a european approach and strategy, because we can no longer just talk about price competitiveness. the european union can no longer remain a consumer. we need autonomy, our own industry and action, as mr ehler said.
the european parliament's urgent resolutions serve to denounce unacceptable situations which are often unpleasant for the governments of the third countries to which they refer, which is especially difficult when it is a friendly country such as mexico. but we have to keep in mind that in the last 25 years, at least 150 journalists have been killed in mexico. unfortunately, with the arrival of the new government, the situation has worsened. the figures for the previous legislature have already been exceeded in this legislature. since the beginning of 2022 alone, six journalists have been brutally murdered, marking one of the worst periods for the mexican press in recent times. in addition, according to official statements, 90 percent of attacks on journalists go unpunished. the violence against journalists in mexico is a matter of grave concern to my group and to this parliament. and that is perfectly expressed in this resolution, which expresses our concern and is supported by a large majority of this parliament. we call on mexico to strengthen the strategy of the protection mechanism for human rights defenders and journalists. we democrats do not like it when the president of a country points out journalists in his frequent public speeches, and even less so when they are the victims of violence by a fateful coincidence. freedom of the press and the free and secure exercise of the profession of journalist are hallmarks of democracy and the rule of law in a free world. journalists and the free press are there to have an opinion on what politicians do. not the other way around. we stand in solidarity with mexico in the sadness this scourge has caused to the people and to democracy. only with respect, transparency and security will it be possible to guarantee freedom of expression in mexico and thus strengthen its democracy. this resolution adds the voice of this parliament to the worldwide call for a reversal of the situation of insecurity and helplessness suffered by mexican journalists and human rights defenders.
author. – madam president, i might be the only non—spanish—speaking author of this resolution, but that’s important because this is a european issue, defending the rule of law and defending journalists across the world. exposing high—level corruption led to the death of mexican journalist roberto toledo. criticising local authorities for their relationship with mexican organised crime got media worker josé luis gamboa killed. over the last two months, we’ve seen what’s very likely the deadliest time for the mexican press in over a decade. toledo and gamboa are two of seven journalists who have lost their lives in mexico since the beginning of the year, while others were threatened or went missing. there are two outstanding actors in these tragic stories. one is the violence unleashed by the war against the drug cartels. the other is the near total impunity. as the country’s justice system has eroded, corruption has proliferated at all levels. while 99% of all crimes are not prosecuted, mexico is launching a war on truth, killing journalists and human rights defenders. dear colleagues, here in this house, we defend freedom of speech as it is an essential part of our functioning democracy. it’s high time we called on mexico to do the same, not to let murder go uninvestigated, to strengthen the protection mechanism, and to refrain from stigmatising media workers and let them do their job. let’s remind those involved in such brutal murders of a simple truth: even if you kill the messenger, you will never kill the message. the people of mexico are angry at censorship and they don’t want to be complicit in the murder of freedom of expression in their country. we also call on these people, who are very dear to us and who are very close to us, to fight for their right to speak freely and to stand for the journalists in their country. they don’t carry weapons: they only carry a notebook and a pen to defend themselves. one last message, perhaps, to the mexican government: you are an essential partner for the european union, but we won’t close our eyes when your democracy, when your freedoms, are eroded.
madam president, i welcome parliament's resolution and the commission's plan to rescue the agricultural sector at this time of great crisis. but for food security, we need even more measures, well calculated, such as: adapting national strategic plans to the new reality, postponing provisions that may reduce production, increasing the percentage of advance on subsidies, viable solutions for total independence of european production, aid for producers affected by the energy and fertilizer crisis and above all support for states that can fill the gap left by ukraine on the agri-food market. romania can do this through its sunflower, cereal and soybean crops, but for four years, already at high risk of desertification, my country has been experiencing extreme drought. with a fixed zero euro budget for agriculture in the pnrr, romania needs the reopening of the plan, without changing the amount allocated, to invest in sustainable water management systems and agricultural product storage facilities. it is not a fad, it is a vital necessity for ensuring our food security, that of the countries with the massive influx of refugees, of the union and of the vulnerable states.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, over 100 billion at their peak. among account holders reported and identified, dozens of corrupt government officials, alleged human rights abusers and criminals. this is not the only swiss scandal, but the biggest one, involving the second-largest bank in the country, fully ignoring financial action task force (fatf) recommendations and all anti-money laundering (aml) rules because swiss law allows them to. commissioner, if swiss banking secrecy laws are at least immoral and swiss legislators are behaving like enablers of financial crimes, why isn’t switzerland on the list of high—risk third countries? on any list, as a matter of fact. this is wrong, and as long as it will continue, we cannot apply our rules related to high-risk third countries to these jurisdictions. if this happens here at our door, how exactly are we to be taken seriously with our new strategy and our new rules? this will never happen. it is a pity because the new package has very good provisions on the relationship of our obliged entities with these third countries which can lead to closing down operations if the law of that third country does not permit compliance with eu requirements. and this would hurt. but first we need to make sure that our own backyard is clean and that we name and shame those who deserve to be named and shamed.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the republic of moldova has unequivocally embraced its european path, values and objectives, and has embraced the idea of solidarity and unity that underpins our union. citizens and state authorities have not only stated their assumptions. they are doing it, right now, in the most concrete way possible, by standing in solidarity with the hundreds of thousands of ukrainian refugees, helping them with what little they themselves have. it is our turn, the european institutions and the governments of the member states, to take on the task of providing the most concrete assistance possible to the republic of moldova. the package of assistance we are now approving is welcome, but it is far from sufficient. moldova's needs, as they were estimated when the package was conceived, are of a completely different magnitude today. i therefore call on the european commission, which has already shown, in these moments of hesitation, vision and courage, to take up with this parliament a new approach to relations with the republic of moldova, of a different political scope and with appropriate financial support.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, one of the countries most affected by the criminal russian invasion of ukraine is moldova. eu has a humanitarian responsibility to help moldova, which received hundreds of thousands of refugees from ukraine who are fleeing the russian bombs in order to save their lives. but eu also has a historical responsibility for moldova. it became a modus operandi of putin to invade, under different pretexts or excuses, regions from southern european countries which were before part of the soviet union. we’ve seen this happening in georgia and ukraine. there’s modus operandi was initially implemented by the russian federation in moldova, which since the fall of soviet union, keeps its 14th army in transnistria. even though moldova had its territorial integrity violated by the russian federation for 30 years, countries had no problems cutting deals with putin for cheaper gas, oil or coal. the precedent instrumentalised by russia in moldova and left unpunished for so long, just motivated putin to keep invading countries until he caused the current war and humanitarian crisis in ukraine. it is time to restore justice in europe, and moldova deserves justice, not just being by being helped financially, but by having the russian army withdraw.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already done so. moldova is in dire need of support. even before putin's invasion of ukraine, moldova was in a difficult economic situation. a severe recession presented the new government with very difficult tasks: socially sustainable structural reforms, greening of the economy including energy production, the rule of law, the fight against corona. in addition, as a result of the russian war of aggression, hundreds of thousands of people, mainly children and women, are now seeking refuge in moldova. we must immediately support the people of the poorest country in europe in their selfless aid to the refugees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i call on the commission to investigate and to ensure that moldova is included in the forthcoming eu aid programmes in the context of the refugee crisis in a transparent manner. and: should the eu commission, the latvian, swedish, german and other governments not put pressure on the banks, which have lost the billion from the century of robbery of a mafia clique in politics and economy, at the latest now? the people of moldova need their assets back now.
mr president, commissioner, i support the republic of moldova to benefit from this macro-financial assistance operation. moldova, the most fragile neighbour of ukraine, apart from the humanitarian emergency, is also noting a massive economic hit from the loss of its imports from ukraine, a collapse in investor confidence and cross-border activity. this mfa operation would help moldova to cover part of its external financial needs and contribute to reducing fiscal vulnerabilities. in these times of multiple crises, the european union plays a key role in ensuring economic resilience within the eu as well. the european commission should therefore refrain from subordinating financial stability to political interests. to this end, hungary asked for immediate and effective access to eu funds allocated to it. amid war and consequently growing economic insecurity, it would be of utmost importance for the commission to act on a professional basis.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i was a member of the delegation from the union to moldova and i have been to this country many times, which is culturally, civilisationally, not just geographically, absolutely part of europe. my colleagues have spoken about how moldovan society has opened its hearts and homes to refugees, but i think the efforts of the president of moldova, the prime minister of moldova, all those who think in european terms - the common european home - should also be appreciated. moldova should be supported, but, contrary to what we hear in this room, it should be supported in order to open the doors wide for this country in the future, when it comes to membership of the european union. europe must be with moldova, moldova with europe.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the citizens of the republic of moldova for the solidarity they have shown, as have the citizens of my country, romania, poland and hungary. it is clear that macro-financial assistance must be provided, but, commissioner, it has emerged from today's debates that these amounts were set before the war and it is clear that now the republic of moldova needs more and more substantial aid, especially in the form of grants, because yes, the loans will have to be repaid. so i would ask you two things. firstly, discuss in the commission the possibility of increasing the grants and, secondly, push for the first tranche to go faster, perhaps in may, because now the citizens who have opened their homes need help, after all, and we know well that the republic of moldova had a problem in terms of jobs, in terms of per capita income anyway. so my appeal is to help the republic of moldova, but to help it with what we need and when we need it.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you to all the honourable members for intervening and supporting the macro-financial assistance (mfa) proposal and also the idea of further strengthening our package of support in the near future. i think that this support is very important for several reasons. firstly, the humanitarian effort that moldova is having in these weeks. secondly, geopolitical reasons; we all know what kind of pressure is on this country because of its position. and thirdly, because – and i had the opportunity to meet members of the government – i think it’s the right time also to help because there is a strong commitment for reform, for anti-corruption and for defending our common european values. and this is the reason why i think your support for the mfa is very important and our commitment to go beyond in the near future is also so important.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on thursday 24 march 2022.
the next item is the report by mr sarvamán, drawn up on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027: combating oligopolistic structures, protecting eu funds against fraud and conflicts of interest [2020/2126 ((ini)) ] (a9-0039/2022).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome all those who have remained here at such a late hour and i am pleased that we are discussing this very important own-initiative report, albeit at a late hour. we are finding increasingly oligarchic structures within the european union, and also outside the european union, at our borders, there are very dangerous oligarchic structures. we're not equipped for that. perhaps because we tend to believe in working with goodwill. perhaps it is because we are more concerned with the positive aspects of encouragement and support, and because we also have confidence in the national authorities, and because we sometimes overlook factors which are quite dangerous. by oligarchy i mean, or is it commonly understood, the criminal intercourse of businessmen with high-ranking politicians for mutual illicit enrichment and also to jointly exercise power in an illicit way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. there is systematic fraud in tenders. there is a remarkable concentration of grants in certain individuals. and we don't even have the ability to digitally trace back, relatively quickly, to which economic beneficiaries money or subsidies have gone, which economic beneficiaries are behind the subsidies. unfortunately, in many of our funds, particularly in the agricultural sector, we still have opportunities in some cases where there is no ceiling on support, not even on permanent support. this is something the budget control committee has been vehemently campaigning for us to do. the money should go to the broadest part of the population and benefit the broadest part of the population. the taxpayer must know who the money is going to, what the money is going to someone for, what projects are being funded, and this must be fully traceable. so we finally need what we discussed. the commission is gradually coming closer, but all the steps so far are voluntary. there is no mandatory interoperable database in which you could simply - i say, at the touch of a button - trace who got how much for what? who's behind a company? how do companies get together? there are still some non-transparent corporate structures that are hard to trace. there are straw men and straw women who are trying to get their hands on european money, or on the money of european taxpayers. and that is why, commissioner, it is also important that we apply the conditionality mechanism accordingly when we discover such structures - and apply it consistently. that where we see oligarchs, politicians and organised crime getting together, we should intervene most consistently and most harshly and equip the european public prosecutor's office accordingly. but also that with great consequence we finally have the ability to digitally trace back who gets why how much money? it's not that much to ask. if we want to be at the forefront of the digital world, then it must at least be possible to trace our funding back to the economic beneficiaries. we must not fail to do so in national bodies, and we must also know whether national bodies are legitimate and properly equipped, let alone want to work properly. i thank petri sarvamaa for the excellent report and the president for not stopping me right away.
member of the commission. – madam president, first i would like to thank petri sarvamaa and his colleagues for this very – and rightly so – ambitious report. the commission is fully committed to protecting the union budget from fraud, conflicts of interest or any other offence. the current legal framework is already well equipped to protect the union budget, and the financial regulation also applies, of course, to the funding that is being mobilised for the recovery and resilience facility. as it makes up the majority of the next generation eu funds, i would like to highlight a few features of the recovery and resilience facility that are particularly relevant for protecting our budget. as you know, the commission can disburse funds under the recovery and resilience facility only if the member states have established robust internal control systems to prevent, detect and correct fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest. the member states must also collect data on the entities receiving union funding and on the physical persons behind those entities. the commission can also recover funds and reduce its contribution where a member state does not act. the commission, the european anti-fraud office (olaf), the european court of auditors and the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) all have competences and responsibilities to protect the financial interests of the union under the recovery and resilience facility. another feature of the recovery and resilience facility is that plans should contribute to effectively addressing all or a significant subset of challenges identified in the country—specific recommendations. this also covers country—specific recommendations that are related to the independence of the judiciary or to the fight against corruption. some member states have measures in their plans targeted towards such challenges. the union budget is also protected from breaches of the principles of the rule of law that affect or seriously risk affecting the budget. that includes, for example, breaches that relate to conflicts of interest, corruption, arbitrary decisions by public authorities, and effective cooperation with olaf and the eppo. under the conditionality regulation, the commission has sent requests for information so far to two member states and it continues to assess the situation across member states. the commission will inform the european parliament about any written notification under the conditionality regulation without any delay. i would also like to highlight that the establishment of the eppo is a great achievement. the eppo is in charge of investigating, prosecuting and bringing to judgment criminal offences against the union budget. the cooperation offered by the commission, together with the rules protecting the prerogatives of the eppo, contribute to the effective protection of the union budget from criminal offences. however, for the commission, all of the european court of auditors and the eppo to do their work, it is necessary that data in the domain of eu funding are recorded and made available by member states. we need to always have clear and complete information about the final recipients of the funds. in that respect, we are fully on the same page. this brings me to the next point: the digitalisation of controls and audits and improving the quality and interoperability of the data on recipients of eu funding. the commission intends to use the upcoming targeted revision of the financial regulation as another opportunity and attempt to promote electronic collection of data on recipients of eu funding and the beneficial owners and the use of an integrated it system for data mining and risk scoring to assess and analyse those data. the commission stands ready to work closely with the european parliament to advance as much as possible on this proposal. when it comes to protecting the rule of law, the commission and the union have a number of instruments at their disposal. this rule of law toolbox consists, among others, of infringement procedure proceedings, the article 7 of the treaty on european union procedure, the country—specific recommendations in the framework of the european semester and the annual rule of law report, including assessments of corruption vulnerabilities. these instruments vary because they are tailored to address the specific types of situations in member states, aiming at preventing or responding to rule of law and corruption issues. finally, the early detection and exclusion system (edes) allows the early detection and the possible exclusion of fraudulent or unreliable economic operators, possibly even imposing financial penalties on them. so i have confidence in the comprehensive tools for our management and control of the union budget. we will never reach literally zero errors, but our multiannual approach allows us to make sure that no eu money is lost, wasted or affected by fraud. we have zero tolerance with regard to fraud and we are fully committed to working for better protection of the union’s financial interests.
the committee on agriculture adopted an opinion on the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the whole of europe is the victim. we are all victims. the victims are the taxpayers. i am speaking from the field of agriculture. the victims are, of course, the ordinary farmers who want and need subsidies. who are the perpetrators? the perpetrators are a small group, a small group of greedy people who cannot get enough, a small group of greedy people who, on the one hand, are striving for power, who are striving for control of the media, but on the other hand, of course, are also striving for money and really getting rich with money. that's why we must do everything we can to clearly separate the perpetrators from the victims. we must do everything we can to apprehend the perpetrators. that means that we finally need more money for the people, for the staff of olaf for example - finally more money and more staff for olaf - finally more money and more staff for the european public prosecutor's office and, of course, for europol. we need a commission which really wants to bite, a commission which really bites and only gives in - i would say once - when it has a piece of meat in its mouth. that is, if she's killed someone. this is really about protecting the european union, protecting it every day. that is what i expect from the commission.
madam president, commissioner, that was a great speech. i applaud you! really great! you spoke about the digitisation of european auditing and control. and i say, when will it be? we're still talking about it here. for two years we've been saying we need to know who the money is going to! and where's the result? how long are we gonna wait? another two years? five years, ten years? the oligarchs are laughing at us! now we have eu sanctions against russia and every russian oligarch is laughing because he is simply taking money from the eu through cyprus! we don't know who we're paying! this report is a slap in the face to the european commission to wake up and say when it will address the problem of oligarchic structures in the european union. i don't want to wait another five, ten, 15 years to solve this problem. this is a problem we have now, now in the european union, and we have to deal with it. i think that sends a clear message to the european commission.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, in 2020 alone, over eur 253 million of detected fraud were lost, and this is only in eu funds under shared management. this is the tip of the iceberg, as national data reporting is not accurate and reliable enough. but we’re not only talking about stolen money. we are speaking about a connection to oligarchic networks seeking to gain control over independent judiciaries and free media to cover up conflicts of interest and fraud, and to capture the state. the new multiannual financial framework and next generation eu make available eur 1.8 trillion in eu funding. olaf has already warned of the vulnerabilities we face in the absence of appropriate tools for monitoring this allocation. and we have these tools. we must extend the use of arachne and edes to all eu funds under shared management. we must improve their functionality and make the systems interoperable with national and local databases. article 61 of the current financial regulation has been a game changer in fighting conflicts of interest in the eu. the revised version must be bold enough to enforce this framework, make it stronger and lay down clear rules on preventing, identifying and managing conflicts of interest. this is how we can succeed.
madam president, putin's aggression against ukraine has caused horror and suffering for almost a month. millions of people, mainly mothers, children and the elderly, have been forced to seek refuge in eu member states. evacuations are becoming more and more difficult, especially for vulnerable groups. ukraine has almost 3 million people with disabilities, of whom more than 150 thousand have managed to flee to neighbouring countries. however, many of them are unable to do so because of health problems. in addition, hospitals and social facilities are often the targets of attacks. i therefore thank all the organisations and volunteers who provide targeted assistance to vulnerable groups, both in the refugee and reception sectors in neighbouring countries. i also call for support for countries that receive people fleeing war to be able to provide assistance to people with disabilities, taking into account their specific needs.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine must not become a banal reality, a habit. we've seen millions of people who have had to leave their country, their home, and rely on the support of strangers, on the help of others for the most basic things, and we romanians help refugees from ukraine every day. and i hosted, like many others, refugees from ukraine. kids with their moms, their grandmothers, their aunts. i saw the desperation in the eyes of the children who don't understand what's going on around them. we can and must help these children to have a life that is at least somewhat normal if we mobilize, if we find solutions so that they can go to school, learn in their own language, communicate with other children who are going through the same suffering and at the same time not be left behind. we need to take it a step further, to help them build their future the way we would like someone to help our own children in similar situations.
madam president, commissioner, i think we are all shocked by the crimes committed by the russian federation in ukraine these days. unfortunately, the bullets sent by putin kill children, kill women, kill people of all ages and destroy entire communities. but for putin, it's not just the military that he's using today to spread terror. another weapon dear to putin is disinformation. it uses all modern tools on a large scale because it can afford to allocate, at least last year, a budget of over 1.3 billion dollars for media tools through which it propagates the aggressive line that the kremlin has in distorting reality. we must also fight this weapon that putin has and is using today because it affects the citizens of the european union as well.
in writing. the war in ukraine has made it even clearer that the european union's energy dependence on russia must be drastically reduced as soon as possible. at present, the eu is heavily dependent on russia for its gas, coal and oil supplies. we must all agree that our energy resources cannot be left to the aggressor in war for the long term. the war-induced spike in energy prices is not only dealing a severe blow to the economically most vulnerable in society, but we are already seeing that european agriculture, producers and the business sector are also being affected. the whole internal market is being negatively affected by recent events. we must therefore explore all possible options to enable the european union to meet the repowereu plan and reduce its energy dependence on russia by one third by the end of the year, while avoiding energy price impoverishment. a key element is the increased diversification of energy sources. nuclear energy will continue to be needed, but the transition to green energy produced in the eu must be accelerated in parallel. the development of innovative new green technologies and the more efficient use of renewable energy sources will be needed to meet our energy needs adequately while meeting our climate change objectives. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize the reduction in energy taxation as a necessary step by the member states, which is essential to ensure affordable energy for all.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in a few moments we will be voting, almost unanimously i am sure, on the first package of measures to mobilise the cohesion fund to welcome refugees. i would like to thank you personally, commissioner elisa ferreira, for this proposal which expands cohesion policy. there are already 3.5 million ukrainian refugees in the european union - a truly colossal number. once again, cohesion policy is proud to intervene in a concrete way in response to a crisis, as we have done since the covid-19 crisis. cohesion policy now has a duty to help the refugees, the ngos, the cities, regions and states that are on the front line of this great upheaval. but we already know, madam commissioner, that the scale of the needs now requires a second set of measures and additional resources. cohesion will respond again today, and i therefore welcome the care+ proposal adopted yesterday by the college of commissioners. you can count on the full involvement of the regi committee in its adoption - i hope so, ladies and gentlemen - as soon as possible. in conclusion, i would like to say that europe was born of solidarity and for solidarity. we can see clearly that in these troubled times, in these times of war, in these times when we all hope for peace, only solidarity will make it possible to withstand the trials of the moment and to open new, more integrated paths for europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, yet again, the european parliament acts quickly and resolutely, and it is urgent because many millions of people, women and children are fleeing death and destruction, seeking shelter in europe from the unprovoked and unjustified war that putin launched on ukraine exactly one month ago today. europe and its people have responded with compassion and solidarity. all citizens and all european member states are engaged in the effort. they all deserve our full backing and support, especially those bordering ukraine and acting as first responders in accommodating ukrainian refugees. today we show that we care for these people and are yet again mobilising cohesion policy in a situation of unprecedented emergency. the care initiative offers flexibility to member states to use cohesion funds to accommodate refugees, enable their access to education, to employment, to healthcare and, in particular, to childcare. the response by all europeans is heartwarming and inspiring. we have left no stone unturned to maximise the support to member states offering shelter on european soil. yesterday we proposed a 3.4 billion cash injection under react-eu to further alleviate pressure on national budgets, especially in those member states most exposed to the refugee crisis. with your precious support, this money should reach those most in need without delay. in these dark hours, there are some rays of light: the bravery of the ukrainians resisting the aggression, the courage of the russians protesting against this illegal war, and the solidarity of anonymous europeans welcoming those fleeing the conflict. our political duty, our moral obligation, is, in fact, to continue to stand by them all.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held in a few minutes. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the invasion of ukraine by the russian federation on 24 february 2022 has led to a massive influx of ukrainian refugees into several member states. all the member states of the european union have made every effort to welcome refugees. the burden of refugees is very unevenly distributed across countries. most of the refugees are staying in poland. the refugees hope to return to ukraine as soon as possible. to do this, the eu member states should support ukraine, including by sending much more needed arms. ukraine must win this war, only then will there be peace in europe.
in writing. for more than four weeks now, following the russian invasion of ukraine, we have been witnessing, in horror, the war that has returned to bleed on european soil! the number of victims now runs into the tens of thousands, and according to ukrainian authorities, more than 112 ukrainian children have lost their lives. more than three million people, mostly women and children, fled the russian bombings to poland, romania, moldova, and hungary. these countries, and poland in particular, are making a commendably generous effort to deal with the emergency, but they cannot handle such a humanitarian catastrophe on their own. the union has reacted swiftly to this tragedy, but it can and must do more. we have a moral duty, as well as a political one, to support these frontline countries urgently. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new action programme for refugees in europe (care) to introduce rules in cohesion policy for 2014-2020 to enable all the necessary funds, such as the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european social fund (esf), to be mobilised quickly and flexibly. the union must use all possible means to alleviate the unspeakable suffering of the ukrainian people, and in particular of the children, who are the innocent victims of this mad conflict.
in writing. we are in an exceptional situation caused by the war in ukraine which requires urgent measures to deal with the consequences of this crisis. this requires a common response to the management of the situation, including in terms of the allocation of european resources, whether it is humanitarian support or efforts by member states for refugees. in this context, the european commission's initiative to amend the regulation on cohesion policy and the regulation on programmes in the area of internal affairs is a necessary and important step to support member states, especially those bordering ukraine, as is the case with romania. i believe that this flexibility should continue through the extension of the n+3 provisions for 2014-2020 programming by one year, the possibility to optimise the recovery and resilience plans and additional support for the implementation of projects financed from european money affected by the war in ukraine. instead of looking for new resources, we need to ensure that all member states can use the european funds already allocated, taking into account the challenges posed by the current context.
colleagues i would like to welcome you to our voting session. i think we can all say we are pleased to be back in the chamber after almost two years of hybrid meetings and remote voting. we will be taking important decisions today, on this important day for europe, and your presence in this regard is crucial. we will now proceed with the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
i'm allowed to read a text for a moment. there is a mistake in paragraph 28; for this reason, it was decided to insert the original text of the pif report and not an interpretation. the original text reads as follows:points out that according to annex i of the annual reports for the protection of the eu's financial interests (pif reports) for 2008 and 2019, romania has, by active anti-fraud investigation, been able to discover and report by far most fraudulent irregularities recorded among eu member states for the respective years;
that concludes the vote.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on refugees in europe for a very simple reason. we are facing the biggest humanitarian crisis in europe since world war ii and all countries are obliged to show solidarity and support the families who have been forced to flee ukraine by the russian aggression. so this report is necessary. the european parliament and the european commission are indebted to these people. much more adequate and rapid action is needed at the level of the european commission and the european union to alleviate both the effort and the efforts of member states, especially those on the border. that's romania, moldova, bulgaria in this case. to provide adequate assistance, accommodate ukrainian refugees and give them the opportunity to work, to give them the opportunity to benefit from social and health systems. that is why i supported this report. he's a reasonable man.
mr president, a single roaming system for all member states of the european union has proved beneficial for european citizens. now that we have a very high mobility of labor, it's necessary that they can communicate without financial barriers with those at home. the single european market must be manifested in all areas, including telephony, making it easier for economic operators to communicate wherever they are. we are all european citizens and it is natural to enjoy the contracts we have signed in our own country wherever we are in europe. one of the benefits of updating this regulation is to solve problems in border areas. as this regulation has proven to be beneficial to consumers and to the european economy as a whole, i have chosen to vote in favour of it.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution with all confidence, because the place of the republic of moldova is next to the european union. millions of citizens of the republic of moldova showed in 2020 that they want democracy, that they want reforms and that they share our european values. with the election of the new leadership, the new government, the message from all moldovans was very clear: 'we choose europe'. the european union must become exactly what its name says: a union of all europeans, with democracy, the rule of law and human rights at its core. to reach the point where it can be part of the european union, the republic of moldova needs support, not only political, but also economic and financial. these are difficult reforms that this country has to make, hard-pressed by the history of the last few years. it's a fight he still has to fight for democratization with no appeal, no way back. but the republic of moldova needs us, and now is the best time to show them that we are with them.
mr. president, we voted for this extremely important decision. i'm one of the 558 colleagues who voted for it. i regret that there are 20 meps who do not understand what the republic of moldova means. of the 150 million, 30 million are non-repayable funds, and the rest are extremely advantageous loans for a state that has been held captive for three decades by the russian federation, which has illegal military troops present on the territory of the republic of moldova. and today more than 370 000 citizens of ukraine have chosen the republic of moldova as their country of refuge and i think that this support is extremely important at an extremely difficult time, when the republic of moldova is just as strongly threatened by the russian federation, so i voted for it.
mr. president, it is no secret to anyone that putin, just like his predecessor stalin, intentionally and presumptuously started this war, knowing that it would produce dire consequences for his own people as well. putin doesn't care about the consequences of what the war is already doing to the way agriculture is affected in these two countries. from this point of view, i think it is essential that this plan exists, because the war in ukraine has affected both the russian and ukrainian nations, but it has consequences for agri-food throughout the world, including in europe, and sanctions must not be relaxed. we need resources, and they don't have to be a barrier to stopping putin from this war.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. the european parliament and the european union must give serious attention to the restoration of food production and food chains in the european union. a subject that has long been undervalued, at the expense of imports from third countries. a theme that was used throughout the european subsidies to target certain sectors that have damaged or destroyed agriculture in a number of european countries, in its spheres such as fruit growing, such as vegetable growing, such as small domestic animal farming, etc. this is something that needs to be addressed now, when the russian invasion of ukraine is threatening the supply of wheat, grain, corn, not just to the european union, but to the whole world. so the report is timely and this subject should be given special attention. that's why i voted yes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i supported this motion, although i must admit that i would not have liked to have seen the name of my country. but we must recognize what the mistakes are and what we need to correct. we can't hide from them. there are many oligarchs who want to use european funds, and with this motion we are asking the european commission to take a stand and ensure that european funds are used for the benefit of the citizens. we are here to represent all european citizens, and nothing is more important than ensuring that european funds dedicated to agricultural cohesion and all the projects selected represent added value for the whole european union.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in hungary, prime minister viktor orbán and his fidesz-kdnp party alliance won a huge two-thirds majority in yesterday's elections. the hungarian communities living outside hungary, including the hungarians from transylvania, contributed to this result. hungarian citizens have chosen security and predictability, rejecting the unnatural party alliance that is a platform from the far right to the far left built on hatred of prime minister orbán and his policies. here in this house, no doubt, many people expected a different result, but the fact is that in a democracy, the people vote. the hungarian people voted, democracy won. the current government will remain in hungary for four years. the result of democratic elections must not only be accepted here in the institutions of the european union, but also acknowledged. it is time to end the ideological war against the hungarian government and begin pragmatic cooperation on the many challenges facing europe today. there's plenty to do.
the conference on the future of europe was set up to involve citizens in the eu. panels would allow citizens from each eu country to express their views on the eu. however, the selected citizens are guided from the outset by pre-designated experts towards one possible outcome: more power for the eu. the outcome of the panels is thus easy to guess: the european union must have a new european constitution, a european taxation system and a single european asylum policy. but who has heard of this conference? where is the social debate? where's the media attention? it is almost as if the conference never took place! and that is dangerous, because governments like the netherlands say they want to follow the recommendations of the conference. the future of europe is being decided by elections. let us therefore put the outcome of this conference to the people in a referendum.
mr president, instead of giving priority to the development of initiatives and measures aimed at a ceasefire and a political solution and peace in europe, we are witnessing the european union's compliance with the united states and its interests. the escalation of the arms race, the policy of economic, commercial, financial, cultural and sporting sanctions, the authoritarian drift and the imposition of a single thought do not serve the cause of peace or the interests of the peoples, they serve the profits of the military industry, the speculators, the direct beneficiaries of the redirection of energy dependence, new attacks on labour and social rights, reactionary and anti-democratic concessions. the european union's sanctions policy sacrifices the interests of the countries and peoples of europe. under the pretext of this, economic groups encourage speculation and make workers and the population pay the price of the brutal rise in the cost of living. peace, freedom, democracy, public control of key sectors, national production, work with rights are the fundamental pillars of a different europe that we must urgently put on the horizon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the by-elections in zimbabwe on 26 may were observed by a number of ambassadors, those of the united states, great britain, sweden and the netherlands, who assessed the by-elections as peaceful and democratic. it would seem that the clashes of 2018 were over when, with force and military power, other principles were affirmed. and so we have to ask ourselves whether it is not time to reassess zimbabwe's role in the fight against jihadism and whether europe should make every effort to preserve its relations with zimbabwe and avoid being given away as a partner to putin's russia. we therefore ask the council to consider whether it would be appropriate to confront that state in order to graduate the sanctions imposed on it over time, because zimbabwe can indeed be an extraordinary partner in the fight against jihadism, which is afflicting all the countries of africa.
mr president, commissioner stella kyriakides recently announced that, while there is no question of abandoning the green deal targets, the 50 per cent reduction in pesticides and fertilisers in agriculture will not apply at national level and the commission will take into account the characteristics of each state. it's good news for food security. in the original version of the proposal, agriculture in my country, for example, was unfair, it always used fertilisers and pesticides far below the european average. but food safety should not be at the expense of food safety. i would ask the commission to give careful consideration to the proposal that each member state should decide on the maximum quantity of pesticides that can be accepted in imported food. this derogation risks misleading the uninformed consumer who will judge the product by price rather than quality. in addition, it could further weaken the position of european farmers vis-à-vis retailers, who will be tempted to bring more cheap food products with a higher amount of active substance to the european market, which would endanger the common agricultural policy and the fate of farmers.
mr president, a few hours ago, president zelensky addressed all the senators and deputies, and the romanian people, in the parliament of romania, thanking them for the solidarity and openness with which our citizens welcomed the almost 700 000 ukrainians who crossed the threshold and border of romania. in these moments, it is essential to show solidarity, and our state has done everything possible to ensure that ukrainian citizens affected by the war feel safe in our country. my wife and i took three ladies and their children into our home and stayed for a month. i think it's very important to stand in solidarity with the ukrainian people who are in these days going through the worst suffering of their times. at the same time, i believe it is essential that the european union fulfils all its commitments and that ukraine becomes a member of the european union as soon as possible.
mr president, between 19 september and 15 december 2021, a volcano erupted on the canary island, la palma, spain, europe, and produced a natural catastrophe that adds up all those contemplated in the activation of the solidarity fund: fires, earthquakes, devastation, destruction of homes and agricultural productions. and that is precisely why, on 3 december, the spanish government requested the activation of the solidarity fund, because the threshold for damage caused in an outermost region is well above the minimum of 1% of its gdp. the estimated damage is 800 million euros and the threshold has therefore been clearly exceeded. the spanish government and the canary islands government have, in solidarity, contributed over 450 million euros to date to repair the damage. but it is high time, thanks to the efforts of our commissioner for cohesion and reforms, elisa ferreira, that the european union activated this advance of eur 5.4 million, which is going to help repair the damage to the destroyed houses, which shows that the european union is in solidarity, of course, with people who need a response coming from outside the european union, but also with the citizens of the european union. and this parliament must not rest until it has increased the solidarity fund and ensured that it actually reaches the island of la palma.
mr vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the last year more and more families have been unable to pay their energy bills, their heating bills. we see how the price of energy is becoming a burden on people's budgets every day. the very tense relations with russia make it even clearer that the european union must have a common european strategy in the energy sector, but above all it shows us that it is time to think about a strategy for household consumers. now that we've established that we're going to go to renewable energy, it should only be a matter of organization, funding and the will to make all homes energy independent. the energy that a family uses every day can and should be produced at home by solar panels, by mini wind turbines, by any other means that ensures energy independence of the homes. we must find solutions at european level because every citizen, whether in romania, slovakia, portugal, wherever he lives, must have access to electricity and heat at a decent price.
mr president, madam commissioner, i support and will support the resolution on the protection of children who are forced to flee the tragic war in ukraine, because the position of the weakest in the war needs to be protected even more. but i will not forgive myself for the comments on this resolution. central europe, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, romania are facing unprecedented numbers of refugees, even compared to the wave of 2015. poland granted asylum to over 2 million ukrainians in a matter of weeks. a much larger germany accepted 1.5 million refugees in 2015. i'm not saying this to triumph over the number of refugees, but to emphasize the enormous strain this puts on the entire system of government, health care, and education. i think these countries deserve credit for how they're handling this situation. people who are not entitled to compensation are taking in refugees and trying to help them. i simply do not see the recognition of this simple human solidarity in the resolution. the resolution is often about what member states have to do without acknowledging what they have already done. before the armed conflict, ukraine had 2 million people living with a rare disease and 13 times more people with hiv per capita than the european union average. many of these people have already come or will come in the coming months to countries like mine. specifically, with four million refugees, that's 13 to 16,000 new cancer patients in europe every month. and that's not the end of it. the children who come to us don't have the mandatory vaccinations that we consider the standard in the eu. we're talking about the need for hundreds of thousands of doses of live vaccines, which are not stored in the eu for the most part and have to be produced. fellas, if you don't help us now, our health care systems will not withstand this onslaught and collapse. please help us, please lighten our burden. share your bed capacity and supply us with the necessary medical supplies. show solidarity with our countries not only in words but also in deeds.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. refugees are people fleeing war, hunger and violence, men, women and children. they all need security and stability, and they also need safe escape routes - especially children and their families. the war in ukraine - a war on our doorstep - requires us to make a special effort to welcome and integrate refugees. we are witnessing an enormous solidarity and willingness to help from civil society, from cities and communities all over europe. this outstanding commitment must be supported and recognised, including by the commission providing them with access to eu funds and accelerating this access. at the same time, i would like to remind member states that they cannot leave the reception and support of people who have fled from ukraine to civil society alone. in particular, with regard to unaccompanied children, there is a need for clear state structures to ensure the child's welfare. the commission and the member states must also rapidly organise safe and coordinated transport of refugees to the various member states, in particular for family reunification. the solidarity platform and the so-called index for the analysis of reception capacities are good first steps, but now concrete steps must be taken to distribute the people seeking protection. i hope that the member states who are unfortunately not here today will take steps after the decision on temporary protection, to take the next steps now to provide people, and in particular children, with the support and safety they need and deserve.
mr president, it’s good that such a vast majority present in this room agrees. i host three children and minors from eastern ukraine for over a month now. they are accompanied. they go to polish schools and kindergarten. they are in our warm and safe home and still, the three-year-old arturczyk tells me with wide open eyes ‘why are they shooting at my daddy? you know, bad people, evil people are shooting at my daddy. why?’ scars will remain. and yes, we all must undertake all that is possible to make them bearable and to put an end to this horror. commissioner dubravka šuica stressed that all children have a right to a happy and normal childhood: all. so let us struggle for all of them. the prolongation of the ukrainian—polish border is the border between poland and belarus. it’s the same line. it is also our schengen border, and there, in the forests and swamps, for months already families with children are pushed back, mistreated, freezing, starving, dying. their only fault is that they are from central asia, most of them. those volunteers who struggle to save their lives, are not awarded with high distinctions but are accused of human trafficking. the prosecution demanded their arrest. please, let us not divide humans. let us not divide children into categories. please remember also those at the belarusian border.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. don't ask for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for you. this is our drama, our tragedy, because ukraine is part of europe, and so it is a tragedy of europe. this isn't some exotic case that's sitting right next to us. it's our responsibility too. we can't just sit around. so from words to deeds, because of course it is easy to express solidarity, it is easy to declare support, but it is more difficult to get to the concrete - concrete, that is, help for these people, both in the framework of the great internal immigration, that is already close to 7 million people in ukraine, and also in the framework of the huge, at least three and a half million outward immigration, of which 70% went to my country, to poland - two and a half million. it is easy, of course, to say to someone on behalf of the european union or the european parliament: we are helping. but you need to make financial decisions based on those words. so far, this is much worse. so far, the aid to the countries that have taken in refugees is more than symbolic. it can't be like this. i agree with my colleague mrs sippel from the social democratic group, who said that this is not just a civil society issue. yes, state structures play a huge, crucial role in helping refugees, especially in certain categories, and it's necessary that these funds also go to individual states. finally, the scenario of putin and lukashenka regarding a hybrid war on the border of belarus with lithuania, latvia and poland is being implemented all the time. let's not fall into that scenario, i'm warning you. let's fight for the refugees.
mr president, commissioner, for more than a month now, the war and russian aggression in ukraine have been destroying lives, destroying property, driving millions of people from their homes and, of course, children are suffering the most. today, there are 3.7 million refugees outside ukraine, and 90% of them are women and children. i want to thank all the member states who are helping these people to get to safety and find temporary homes. of course, children are the most at risk, and that is why the european parliament wants to accept its call and its opinion. the establishment and protection of humanitarian corridors to ensure safe escape for people fleeing to safety is a crucial step. i regret that the french presidency is not here today, because we should be hearing what the french president has done, how he has used his mandate to help children, people who should be getting out of besieged cities like mariupol. you may also have seen the sad eyes of ukrainian children, who are happy to be among their peers, to be able to kick a balloon again, to get on a scooter. children are the future of ukraine, children are the future of the european union, and everything we do for ukrainian children now is for us, and for europe. so the children and their mothers are to find the necessary accommodation, health care, psychological support and, of course, education. i would also like to commend the work done so far by the member states and the commission in this regard. i think it's important to set up a solidarity platform, a platform for registering people so that children are not lost, so that everyone is registered, traceable, a school education platform that should help to exchange information and good practice between member states. i want to thank again all the volunteers and member states who are helping to ensure that no child is caught in the net, that no child is left unattended. and i just want to remind you that among the countries that are helping is the czech republic, which hosts 300,000 refugees.
president, commissioners, in the last few days there have been some truly horrific images coming out of ukraine. as the russian army was driven out, images of destroyed villages and cities and murdered ukrainians littered the streets. almost four million ukrainians have now fled the country's turmoil, and half of them are children. we can't leave them out in the cold. they deserve more than nice words. they deserve more than endorsements. they deserve more than a fine resolution from the european parliament. they deserve our support, they deserve action, because even outside the war zone, the risks remain high. poverty, exclusion and exploitation are lurking, also in the european union, and therefore a swift, targeted approach is needed. the european social pillar is crystal clear. social inclusion and protection are crucial and the urgency of the port objectives has only grown. we agreed in porto to fight poverty and to make inclusion possible. so now must be the time to deliver. europe must show that we are not forgetting the children of ukraine. they need to be assured of good education, of decent housing and of good care, with adequate attention to trauma treatment. it is now up to the member states to show that they are willing to invest in the future of ukrainian children and that they are investing in structural aid. the european union is a safe haven, and it does not just need words, it needs action.
mr president, i say to dear vice-president šuica, commissioner johansson and my honourable colleagues: this weekend we all saw the atrocities committed by vladimir putin’s armies against civilians in bucha. these crimes are yet another reminder of russia’s willingness to attack innocent people and act against international law. and it is our duty to step up our actions to help ukraine and its civilians seeking security within our union. our duty is only increased by the fact that the majority of ukrainian refugees entering europe are vulnerable children and young people. i’ve seen them with my own eyes at the border of between romania and ukraine. i’ve seen them together with commissioner nicolas schmit when visiting a transit facility in ploieşti: women and children with their eyes in tears. as we welcome the first necessary tools introduced by the introduced by the commission: the temporary protection directives and the care and care+ packages, we should use the resilience of our social security systems to receive these children in the best conditions. protecting children fleeing from war is a right we must fulfil in their best interests, away from any discrimination. we must protect them from the other dangers present on the way to europe: violence, exploitation, abuse, trafficking and abduction, dangers we will not want our children to encounter. and this is not only about the refugees, the children coming from ukraine, it’s also about protecting vulnerable people in general. this is about the social resilience of the european union. this is about the child guarantee, about the european pillar of social rights, about not leaving people behind. this is the reality that we need to be there for vulnerable people, generally speaking. and together with the member states, civil societies and volunteers, we should not give up on ukraine. let’s continue working together towards a safer europe where innocent, disadvantaged children and citizens are protected. where the images seen this weekend should not be seen again.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, some 650 000 refugees have already arrived in romania and almost 80 000 remain. over 43% are minors, and 24 000 of them are of school age, many of them without a parent. but beyond those numbers, we're talking about families torn apart by this cruel and bloody war. it's hard to imagine the drama that goes through every family that leaves behind a whole life and a father that they're not sure they'll ever see again. ensuring the integration of these children and young people into care and education structures must be a top priority for the union and the member states. the romanian government, together with local authorities and civil organizations, is making a significant effort for ukrainian students who want to continue online schooling to have this possibility, or to be integrated into romanian schools. and because there is a large ukrainian community living on the border with ukraine and receiving education in their mother tongue, this has helped a significant number of refugee children to integrate quickly into these units. this is how important minority language education is becoming, as called for in the resolution we are voting on today. national authorities need to be supported in overcoming the language barriers faced by these children. we need to contract interpretation services, foreign language courses and special programs to recruit teachers who speak ukrainian and other minority languages in ukraine. it is a matter which i also raised with the president of the european parliament when i visited the ukrainian border. let us not forget for a moment: today's refugee children are the future of ukraine tomorrow, and we hope, together with them, that they will soon live in a country reborn from the ashes of today's bombings.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on regional development. mr president, commissioner urpilainen, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of an interconnected energy infrastructure at eu level is a prerequisite without which we cannot speak of a common energy market. it is necessary to accelerate projects in this area and to make priority corridors a reality as soon as possible. and that is what i have advocated in my capacity as rapporteur of the regional development committee. the objectives of the european green deal can only be achieved if we take into account the development and adaptation possibilities of regions and member states in the energy field, enabling them to replace their current energy sources with others that pollute much less, whatever they are. it's technology neutrality that will give the field the freedom to make the necessary innovations, and we need to make sure that we support solutions based on reducing pollution levels, not based on the fuel used. because only in this way can we ensure that no member state, no region of the european union is left behind.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for your support for the agreement, but also for your further comments and reflections on the current situation of europe’s energy market. the commission shares your concerns and the responsibility in swiftly coming forward with concrete solutions that will help us accelerate our transition to climate neutrality, but also the phase—out of russian fossil fuels, while our security of supply is guaranteed and prices are kept under control. your vote for the revised ten-e implementation will be part of this solution. it will allow us to focus on accelerating the offshore grids and replace natural gas by hydrogen and other renewable and low—carbon gases. so thank you very much for this debate. i will also pass all your interventions and messages to my dear colleague, commissioner simson.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. thank you so much for this discussion. as i said, we have tried to find a compromise which takes account of the objectives of the union but also of the interests and position of the various countries, including malta and cyprus. and this exception that we made for these two countries is, as you know (those who criticized it), surrounded by many reservations, so as to exclude people suspected of corruption or other crimes. so there is really no reason to vote against the report on that. i would like to say a word to my colleagues in the green group. well, you're now co-governor of one of the most important countries in the union, with the largest economy. you can immediately impose an embargo on russian oil and gas, and somehow we don't see it. we don't see that kind of principledness being demonstrated in this room when it comes to other issues. that's one of the things you're not so determined about. you might also ask: is it because of the interests of other countries, their position, the affairs of europe, or is it just about your own country? if you have heard that sicily can only supply itself with renewable energy, try to do it where you are co-government, in germany. we'll see how it works.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, tuesday, april 5, 2022. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. the energy crisis since autumn 2021 and the war in the european union's neighbourhood have clearly highlighted the weaknesses of europe's energy infrastructure. climate goals are important, but the priority now is to maintain a secure, diversified energy supply for our countries. despite the shortcomings of the ten-e regulation, it can be an important step in this direction. on the one hand, the revised regulation simplifies approval and authorisation procedures, which can significantly speed up the implementation of investments. on the other hand, the new rules allow all projects of common interest to retain their existing rights to accelerated approval. finally, electrolysers, which may play a key role in the production of hydrogen, are also covered by the regulation. the revised regulation is a good compromise, for which i thank the rapporteur, mr krasnodębski. we must not allow irresponsible proposals which, for various ideological reasons, would jeopardize europe's energy supply. we need to preserve the functioning of our societies and economies, which requires sound and balanced regulation.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr nicolae ştefănuţă, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2023 budget, item iii commission (2021/2226(bui)) (a9-0062/2022). i would remind you that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. after you have inserted your voting card into the voting machine, you can then apply for spontaneous word messages and blue cards via your voting machine. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be dealt with from the central podium, with the exception of spontaneous speeches, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure.
the reporter. madam president, commissioner, the years 2022 and 2023 are special years in the history of the european union. when winston churchill was told, for example, to cut the budget for culture in the middle of world war ii, he said, "but then, what are we fighting for?" and i think we're in an exact similar moment today. on the one hand, we're fighting a war, yes, we're fighting a war, too. on the other hand, we must defend our way of life, our european values. we've gone from the last year of the pandemic to the first year of the war. but european money does not grow on trees, the union budget is limited by the sums that the member states give to the union. our annual budget, what a coincidence, commissioner, is the same as that of austria, the country from which you come. but our needs are huge, they're much bigger. we have a financial crisis, energy bills, inflation, health problems. we have young people in depression, we have war! moreover, the invasion of ukraine by russia and the cruel war that this country is waging have put a strain on our economies. that is why, commissioner, the eu budget for this year is limited. we are limited. we're strapped into this multi-year budget, the mff, for seven years. if we don't revise the mff soon, we'll always be taking money from other programmes, from cohesion, from other places. and so the needs for economic recovery of the member states will never be met. here are the six big policy priorities that we're voting on today. first priority: growth of the economy. we must speed up the access to and absorption of the structural funds and the nrpf. our citizens must once again feel proud to be part of this union of prosperity, of well-being. the year 2023 is also important for our farmers who put food on our table. priority two: health for all citizens. in the last year, the pandemic has turned our lives upside down. over six million people died worldwide. moreover, the chronically ill suffered greatly because they were neglected. there was no way to prevent it. so we have to remember that the eu budget is for building hospitals, to accelerate the pace at which our citizens can one day be treated equally in every member state of the european union. i dream that one day, the people of sibiu, the city where i come from, will be treated as well as the people in a hospital in germany. third priority: accelerating the green and digital transition. commissioner, every day the countries of the european union still send 700 million euros to russia. in total, over 22 billion euros a year, money that goes to tanks and missiles, money that is destroying human lives right now. so to those colleagues who say that greendeal has to be stopped because we need energy resources now, i say no, the opposite. we need to accelerate our green transition to renewable energy. we have to stay where it makes sense. we must not give up now, when it's most important. priority four: without the rule of law, there's no money. the european union is not an atm and we cannot accept that european money is sent to places where there are suspicions about the rule of law, that it ends up in the hands of corrupt people. that is why, commissioner, i encourage you not to see the eppo, the european public prosecutor's office headed by laura codruța kovesi, as a cinderella of the union. every cent we give to this prosecution brings back millions of euros to the european union. one last point: commissioner, young people have suffered a lot in this pandemic: anxiety, depression, isolation. we need to reestablish the mechanisms by which they can see the world again. we have to help him get into erasmus. with 400 euros, a young person cannot go to erasmus unless he has help from his mother and father at home. and, most importantly: commissioner, we must have a stronger union for its citizens and in the world because we are at war. and we have four countries on the border: romania, hungary, slovakia and poland, who are suffering right now for the whole of the european union, taking care of all the refugees in the union. that is why, commissioner, we must help these countries and not just by transferring sums which have not been spent. we have to help them with everything we can. commissioner, 'true generosity towards the future is to give everything to the present'. that's what albert camus said. i want us, the current generation, to give everything to the present.
question blue card first of all, mr president, are you prepared to give up your salary yourself, since you are asking the commissioner to do so? and secondly, how do you feel when you see the images coming from boucha, you who defend a regime that, at the moment, is killing?
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you for all your contributions. we can assume that the budget negotiations for the coming year will not be easy, probably even more difficult than in previous years, because of the challenges. and frankly, if we actually do negotiate in a few months, the situation will probably be completely different from what we are discussing now. it has been rightly pointed out by some that inflation is of course also a factor which must be priced. i just have to say, as many of you have said, we have to show solidarity, but in my area, we have to keep everything secure, or we need more. at the end of the day, we're gonna make it together. first of all, the challenges we face - the war, the sustainable fight against covid-19, energy prices, but also the security of energy supply in southern europe - will only be tackled together if we are all willing to find compromises and make a contribution. we are therefore in a position to make a contribution as the european union. i can only repeat myself: these challenges we face cannot be met by us alone. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of nations. in this sense, however, i am looking forward - and i do not mean this in a derogatory way, on the contrary - to the budget negotiations. they will be challenging, but this year they are particularly important and urgent.
rapporteur. – madam president, i say to my colleagues: we are excited to vote again, presently. it’s been something that have we missed in this parliament. but i ask you, colleagues, to give me 30 seconds also in respect of the victims of the ukraine war, because we are talking here about the budget and we’ve been talking for the past two hours about what we can do for these victims and for the people who cross the borders into another country. mr commissioner, you have the toughest job right now. you always need more money, but help us revise the mff. help us, in relation to the member states, call for a revision of the mff, because we are already bound, the belt is too narrow to the body. we need the member states to widen the eu budget now. one final word, because i am romanian ... (the speaker was interrupted for a few moments) my final remark for all of you who are poles, who are slovaks, who are romanians, who are hungarians, who bear the burden of millions of refugees right now. commissioner, europe needs to help these countries right now because they have a very high role in what is going on now. they do a service for world peace, now.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have been campaigning for many years to develop education about the european union, both as a member of the european parliament and as a teacher. it is time to understand that through this kind of education we are ensuring that our citizens better understand their rights and obligations at european level, that they have more knowledge about the states that are in the european union, about their history and culture, and that in this way we are able to strengthen the resilience of our societies by developing a sense of belonging to this unique democratic community in the world. to achieve this we need a common school curriculum available in all member states, trained teachers, methods and content adapted to different categories of learners, including online, and adequate resources, appropriately funded. this involves involving all institutional actors and all organisations that have contributed and want to contribute to the development of civic education for active european citizenship. this process should be coordinated at european level, including through a responsible structure to assume this role. i hope that eu civic education will soon be available in all schools in the member states, because this type of competence will strengthen the role of european citizens in the decision-making process of the european union and enable them to better respond to global and european challenges. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mr devesa, for his efforts and for taking our ideas into account in his report.
mr president, the european union means democracy, it means promoting and defending freedoms, it means promoting and defending human rights, freedom of expression, non-discrimination on all grounds. the european union is about accepting and sharing the diversity of cultures, languages, customs, traditions. many of us take these notions for granted, but the social and political developments of recent years have made it increasingly clear that these values are not intuitively known, but that there must be a constant concern for their promotion, for highlighting their importance for our well-being, for everyone. a europe without wars, without extremism, is a europe where the majority of citizens understand the importance of education and civic engagement, where european citizens, wherever they may be, know the democratic values and the consequences of violating and minimising them. that is why i argue that we need a european commitment to protect all these values. we need real civic education for all european citizens, regardless of age.
madam president, i try to speak not only in my name, but in the name of the 212 meps who have signed the letter. and you know that letter mr borrell? because let’s be honest, i can only join those who felt completely devastated about what is happening in bucha and mariupol. but let’s be honest, that cannot be the centre of our debate. the centre of our debate needs to be whether the strategy that we are following is the right strategy? is it stopping the war? is it stopping putin – yes or no? what is our strategy? our strategy, mr borrell, and it’s a pity that mrs von der leyen is not there, or mr michel is not there anymore because they are responsible for that. it’s the strategy of progressive packages, of sanctions. we are now in the fourth and now announced today the fifth package. the first four package didn’t work. the value of the ruble went up at the end. and i predict you something, mr borrell, the fifth package will not work either. and therefore, we have sent with 212 people and mapped this letter to you. because, it will not work and people in the corridors tell me ‘mr verhofstadt, you are impatient. wait a little bit. we are working on the sixth package already and in the sixth package you’re going to have all as you want’. well, i can tell you, i can wait my whole bloody life for your packages. but the ukrainians who are dying in mariupol and bucha cannot wait anymore. that is the reality of the work here. you know why your strategy doesn’t work? because progressive packages of sanctions with an autocrat do not work. that works with a democracy, with democrats. we have a public opinion, a real public opinion. in russia there is no longer a real public opinion. the reality is that it doesn’t work because the fifth package is what? coal! it’s ridiculous! it’s only 3% of the imports from russia. switch the ban. ridiculous. more than 50% of the financial institutions are still outside the ban. and the oligarchs, the oligarchs, – shall we extend a little bit? – the oligarchs. the oligarchs will escape finally the sanctions or lose a little bit of their money. you need to tackle the 6000 people around putin, the real people working with putin. and we have the list. alexei navalny’s foundation for combating corruption has made the list of 6000 people. these people you need to tackle. and so i have a request for you. i’m sorry that i am saying it to you, because i think that for 90% you agree with me, in fact. i’m pretty sure about that. so i wanted to say that to michel and von der leyen – in the name of this 212, it’s time to change your strategy. it’s time to have an extra european council as fast as possible and to go for the full package of sanctions immediately so that you can really make a difference. all the rest will not work. all the rest will prolong the war. all the rest will be more killings on the ukraine side. and finally, a little advice to my friends in germany. i think that after the horrors of the second world war, there has emerged (i’m finishing) a strong and democratic germany, a very strong and democratic germany. but from such a germany, i expect leadership, leading by example and not the dragging of feet, as we are seeing today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i begin by saying that i strongly condemn this russian military attack on ukraine and i am absolutely on the side of the ukrainian people, of course. i'm just saying this to avoid misunderstanding. and i am also on the side of the european people, who are unwittingly bearing the greatest risks of this war and the greatest costs of this war. on behalf of all these people, i think we should say clearly here whether we want to win this war, whether we are here to win it, or whether we are here to stop this war. because if we listen to the statements of the top western leaders, if we listen to the words of biden, if we listen to the words of people like boris johnson, we can never find the word "peace" in what they say. i honestly believe that none of these people have any real intention of stopping this war. and no matter how many ukrainians are dying or how many european citizens will suffer: they don't want to stop this war. so the first question i ask is: can we win this war? do we really think we can overthrow, we can overthrow the putin regime, without putin using nuclear first? the second question i ask is: what do we europeans want? we are giving arms to the ukrainians, we are giving money to russia, and we are imposing sanctions that only affect european citizens. for me, all that is needed is to stop this war, and to stop it, we need to have the courage to say, rather than stop saying, that putin is a criminal lunatic and sit down at that table and talk to putin. because if putin is a criminal lunatic, then maybe we have to ask ourselves whether we in serbia, in libya, in iraq, in syria, in afghanistan, maybe we were criminal lunatics as well and maybe we are legitimate to sit at that table and talk to putin? so the last question i ask is: is there anyone in here who really intends to sit at that table in the interests of the ukrainian people and in the interests and in the defense of the european people? is there anyone in this room who has the courage to say "sir no" to the united states of america? and is there anyone in here who has the courage to say "no sir", really!, to this damn war?
madam president! every one of us who is active in politics will be asked one day, "what did you do to stop russia?" what did you do when the beasts were killing ukrainians, women, children, old people? their bodies bear the marks of actions that clearly indicate the commission of a crime against humanity. you have to call evil evil. our duty, our legal obligation under international law, is to do everything to stop this evil as soon as possible through massive total sanctions, tight, imposed in solidarity and fulfilled in solidarity. and by supplying weapons, because the ukrainians are fighting a just war. they fight for their freedom and they fight for the lives of their children and their mothers. and one more thing, madam chairman of the commission. next sunday will be a day of remembrance. our ukrainian brothers will understand. on the day of remembrance of the great friend of ukraine, the man who warned the most strongly and the earliest against the criminal policy of the kremlin the late president lech kaczynski, who died in the smolensk disaster. to his memory.
mr donato, i have avoided interrupting, but let me say this: i would like to say that this house can in no way become the megaphone of positions which are absolutely unacceptable. the massacre at bucha, mr donato, is happening before our very eyes and we cannot accept, i say this very clearly, that this is even being discussed in this house. the massacres of innocent civilians that are taking place in these minutes, in these hours, are happening before the eyes of everyone and it is not acceptable in this house that this should be called into question! this house, mr donato, is not equidistant! there is an aggressor, which is putin, and there is an aggressor, which is the ukrainian people, whom this house and the european institutions are defending. get over yourself.
your excellences, i begin by congratulating roberta metsola on her courageous move to go to kiev. i bow! he has dishonoured parliament! at the time when the european council presented its conclusions, we had no idea that the bucha massacre would take place. but the barbarity of putin and his generals is always breaking records and paralyzing us. well, that's exactly what we can't afford. we don't have time to waste to see who has turned a blind eye in the european union and who has gained from the member countries since the annexation of crimea. the bloody reality can't be changed any more. every hour, children die, families are torn apart, the soul of a nation is mutilated. one child leaves ukraine every minute. one child every minute! it is clear that the time for compromise has passed and any half-measured sanction does not achieve its purpose. i think less hypocrisy and more action would be desirable. we announce sanctions, but we still leave russian banks operating in the swift and target 2 network, five russian banks, and we pay 300 million euros a day, dear colleagues, russian gas and oil. in other words, we're feeding putin's russia accounts with 9 billion euros a month, which is funding the kremlin's war machine. with hypocrisy! however, it certainly deserves to welcome the fifth sanctions package announced by mrs von der leyen. i propose another course of action: let's find, i stress, let's find together, how to inform russian citizens about putin's horrors. this antichrist has restricted access to the truth, arrested him, but that shouldn't demobilize us. i propose a task force in partnership with nato to find the way to the truth to the russian citizens, and this task force of information must not know the word "impossible". whatever sanctions, commissions of inquiry and international tribunals might work to block this war criminal, as long as he has the support of the russians, manipulated aggressively, we are disarmed. we know from history that the truth always finds its way. but we don't have time. for the terrible situation in ukraine, terms like dramatic, unfortunate, disaster are too little. we live in fear that the invasion will not spread to other states, and i, as a romanian, pray every day for my brothers in the republic of moldova. god help her! let's not witness another nightmare! albert einstein said it this way: i don't know with what weapons the third world war will be fought, but certainly the fourth will be fought with sticks and stones.
madam president, madam vice-president jourová, the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, in particular disinformation, of which i have had the honour to be a member, has drawn some irrefutable conclusions. one is the need to strengthen cybersecurity and fact-checking against manipulation. but another, no less important, point is that there is no racist and xenophobic party in europe that has not sought putin's support and funding, as have secessionist, separatist and segregationist movements and formations, since putin knows that anything that attacks the unity of democratically constituted states attacks the whole of the european union. now, this brutal aggression of putin against ukraine and its people has come to change so many things. one of them is that it has strengthened the unity of the european union in its commitment to respond, but the other is that it is also forcing all these formations to take a position in the face of the choice between aligning themselves with fascism or with the extreme right, with radical ideology, or, on the contrary, by submitting themselves to the values and the binding law of the european union.
dear chairman, colleagues. the putin regime seeks global domination, and the greatest enemy of its goals is democracy and freedom. it is used by both extremist parties in europe and individual politicians. this is not a new phenomenon, but it has been overlooked. i sincerely hope that the war against ukraine has opened everyone's eyes to how the kremlin works. there is no cheap gas and oil, only discounts that are given for certain services to putin. services that help to destroy the european union and nato. the question is, how long are we gonna let this go on? when will the relevant services and institutions start exchanging information and stop funding european parties and their representatives?
dear chairwoman, for more than 20 years since coming to power, putin and his bullies have been targeting the weak: journalists and opposition politicians, national and sexual minorities, anyone who dares to be free and different. they range from murder and beatings to the removal of representativeness and autonomy of regions. yet none of this was enough to wake up the european far right. and that allegiance was amply helped by putin's linking ideological exclusivism with cynical business opportunism. we have no reason to believe that he stopped giving them, despite the sanctions, the abundance of money for disinformation campaigns that manipulated voters in western countries. think of the credit of russian banks, the disinformation campaigns around brexit and elections from the us to france. in doing so, it has kept many of its european union partners in power or helped them to rise. putin has had his vocal advocates everywhere, from national representative bodies to the european parliament. let us not be fooled, in at least two member states of the european union, as well as on its external borders, we have today rulers who inherit the values, rhetoric and methods of governance of the far right. our tolerance of the kremlin and its proxies has led to putin's daring to invade ukraine, where the russian military is committing crimes unlike any we've seen since vukovar and srebrenica. the razed cities of bucha and mariupol are a testimony to this toleration of the intolerant. it is time for the european union to finally condemn them politically and defeat them.
madam president, there are choices that may seem simple: solidarity or division, prosperity or war, democracy or dictatorship, europe or putin. but there are political parties in our democracies for whom these options are not at all obvious. the putin regime has invested in them money or troll farms, and they have taken on in return an agenda built on fear and manipulation. liberal rhetoric builds on these tools by promising security through isolation and nationalism. such security does not exist, and lies and liberalism bring nothing in the medium and long term but dictatorship, corruption, poverty, and in extreme cases, crime and war. we have the power to fight this infernal machine with positive measures, including education, and with the strength and essence of the european project. but we also have to learn to stand up to extremists, to tell them that serving putin's interests while you are in the heart of the union, enjoying the peace and prosperity that the european project brings, is simply a great cowardice.
for the left group. president. - the debate is closed. on sunday, fidesz was given a renewed mandate to continue governing hungary. orbán's government must now choose whether to continue to dismantle democracy or whether to actually embark on the path of democracy. on the eu side, we must be clear about what we expect. we must defend democracy and we must do everything we can to stop the authoritarian development in the heart of europe. it is therefore welcome that the commission finally announces that it is opening a procedure against hungary for the first time. it's been a cramp like no other. stop funding oligarchic rule and autocracy in europe! i just wonder what the council will do. aren't you even supposed to be accepting recommendations in may? it's too weak! i would also like to say that the ukrainian refugee situation is a challenge for all of us, not least of course for poland and hungary. we must be clear, however, that this cannot be used to silence our demands for democracy and respect for the rule of law. it is a fundamental requirement for european cooperation. the erosion of democracy and the entrenchment of authoritarian governments and regimes in europe - this is indeed putin's business. he has always wanted to undermine democracy in europe. therefore, it must end now. we want a free press. we need a functioning justice system. we must have basic human rights in all the member countries of europe. if we cannot defend it in europe, if we cannot defend it in this cooperation, what kind of cooperation is it? then it's time for a new partnership. this is about democracy and human rights. we can't have it like this.
madam president, on sunday, hungarian voters gave viktor orbán and the fidesz government a landslide victory. no political force has had a victory greater than this in the past 30 years in central europe. that’s a fact. this election result does not only mean the spectacular failure of the hungarian opposition, but it was also a resolute and clear rejection of all the political intervention attempts by the brussels elite and many of you here. at this point, you have a clear choice: either you respect the will of the people and open a new chapter of cooperation with us – we stand ready as we have always stood ready – or you continue your ill-conceived ideological jihad against us. unfortunately, it seems that you are choosing the latter. this demonstrates a lack of respect of one of the most important principles of democracy, the vox populi. please understand, hungarians reject your arrogant ideological lectures. europe is facing a terrible war. we are receiving millions of refugees. there is an economic crisis looming. we need sobriety and unity. please help that. it’s high time to take your hands off poland and hungary.
madam president, speaking before you today, i have a rather unpleasant feeling of déjà vu. the so-called 'article 7' procedures concerning the failure of poland and hungary to respect the rule of law were initiated in 2017 and 2018 respectively. however, little has changed since then, apart from a deterioration in the situation in both countries, both of which had voluntarily committed themselves to respecting the union's values by joining it. many hearings were held, including by the french presidency of the union, which was satisfied with this, even though the rule of law was presented to us as a priority. during these delays, civil society, judges, opposition, human rights activists, lgbtiq people in these countries are desperate for a strong gesture from us. let us also be clear on another point: the war in ukraine must not be used as an excuse by the european commission, particularly to put an end to pressure on these countries. i welcome the launch of the conditionality mechanism with regard to hungary. but what about poland? of course, i welcome the effort that poland is making to take care of the refugees, even though many reports say that volunteers and local people are providing most of the aid and feel abandoned by the national authorities. therefore, the reception of ukrainian refugees by poland and hungary cannot be used as a bargaining chip for leniency on the rule of law and the consequences of non-compliance.
madam president, i would like to start by thanking the french presidency for resuming the article 7 hearings. it is indeed important that the process continues. i would also like to acknowledge the announcement made yesterday by president von der leyen regarding the conditionality regulation, and the fact that it will be finally applied to hungary. i do believe, unfortunately, that it comes a bit too late. looking at the results of the elections in hungary, and the new and fresh fidesz and orbán grip on this country, i think that every time that we are hesitant regarding the rule of law, it sends the message to all those throughout europe that would like to follow orbán’s autocratic tendencies that this is okay – that you can still win elections, you can still disregard democratic rules and still get rich with eu money by doing what he does, and this is okay. and i believe that this is not what people want to hear from us. nevertheless, i would like to commend the effort of the united opposition and of all those hungarians who have fought for our common values in these elections, which were unequal elections, and they were not fair. this is what the observation mission stated as well. but how could it have been otherwise, given the absence of level playing field, the media bias, the media capture, the state capture, the opaque campaign funding? how could it have been otherwise? anyway, nobody is eternal in power, neither orbán nor putin. and one day the people of hungary and the united opposition will win, for our european values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, alexei navalny has been sentenced to nine more years in prison because putin considers him a threat, because he fears him, because, as navalny himself said at the time of his sentencing, putin is afraid of the truth. the tragic news coming from ukraine makes us reflect on the ever-growing repression experienced by the russian people at home. as i wrote in a recent parliamentary question to the commission, more and more russians are leaving their country to escape a bloody regime capable of such heinous acts, and we must not abandon them. putin wants to erase all freedom. there is no room for dissent in russia: you go to jail for political reasons, freedom of speech is a pipe dream, and minorities are persecuted. but some people try to imagine a different russia. europe must help those russians who flee and those who resist: they are students, professors, journalists, activists and a lot of ordinary people, men and women who oppose the regime, who take to the streets, who want democracy. let's give navalny and all of them hope.
(start of speech off mike) ... putin’s barbaric aggression against the people of ukraine has been a wake-up call for all of us. but for years now, our friends in russia, democratic forces and alexei navalny have been warning us that this will happen. some were called warmongers for talking about the possibility of a russian invasion. i believe they deserve an apology. we have to listen to the voices that understood him from the beginning. putin is at war not only with ukraine but with russian people as well. repressive legislation and actions against free media, free speech and independent reporting, including the closure of media outlets and blocking of websites, and justifies arrests and imprisonment of peaceful protesters, people and opposition leaders, that represent human rights violations and a breach of fundamental freedoms. therefore, the european union and its member states should offer support and protection to independent media professionals, human rights defenders, opposition leaders and civil society activists, because they are the only ones who can bring peace and prosperity in russia.
mr. president, the russian regime has unprecedentedly intensified its brutal crackdown on peacefully demonstrating russian citizens, independent journalists, bloggers, human rights defenders and civil society activists in an attempt to silence any criticism and opposition to its illegal, unprovoked and unjustified military aggression in ukraine. kremlin propaganda is trying to identify its regime with the people of russia. however, i am convinced that we must support the democratically minded, civilized and cultured citizens of this country, which has produced great composers, writers, artists, scientists who have contributed to the enrichment of the world's cultural treasury. surely these people are feeling a great deal of shame at the kremlin's rule, which has long inflicted irreparable damage on russia's image in the world. alexei navalny displayed reckless courage and heroism to return to russia only to be arrested immediately. he must be released unconditionally. i call on the council and the member states to step up their support for activists, independent journalists and human rights defenders by granting them visas and shelter in the european union. the organisations and scientists concerned must be able to continue their work in the european union.
mr. chairman, the responsibility for the russian military invasion of ukraine is widely attributed to putin and the kremlin. but we forget that this twisted ideological machine is maintaining its position mainly thanks to the support of millions of russians, and many russians are even supporting the criminal invasion further west. it also takes courage and sacrifice to resist repression, intimidation, or to distinguish between false news and false news. russia started its war before the criminal invasion of ukraine. many years ago, misinformation was rampant, and we underestimated it for a long time. even today, there is a war, both physical and informational. we have to win this one, too, which is why it's important to provide real and truthful information to the russians. i therefore welcome this resolution, which aims, among other things, to help the russian opposition, the intelligentsia and academics, their work and to support the change of regime to a democratic one. russia can only be our partner if it becomes a truly free country, one that respects the elementary principles of democracy and freedom, including religious freedom.
mr president, in all probability, the ordinary people of russia are like the ordinary people of my own country, or any country in the european union – fine, decent people. but unfortunately, they are led by an autocrat, a butcher, a war criminal called putin. but putin reminds me of the film a few good men, where jack nicholson said: ‘you can’t handle the truth’. and because he can’t handle the truth, he denies people the opportunity to express themselves. he did it with navalny. he tried to kill him, first by poisoning him, then he put him into prison, and when his term was up, he gave him another nine years. he controls state media. anybody who criticises can get 15 years in jail. but the truth will prevail. and someday, someone like navalny will come along and become a true democratic leader of a free russia. we look forward to that. the truth will prevail.
mr president, ukraine and the war crimes in bucha, irpin, mariupol are really images of hell, of putin's hell. russia is a land of lawlessness. putin and the leaders of this regime are undoubtedly also the leaders of war crimes, and navalny has surrendered to them. he repeatedly volunteered to serve them. actually, forgive me for saying this, but he kind of spat in the face of the putin regime for all of us, that he was unintimidating. we all admire his courage today. we're calling for his release. the naughty one has undoubtedly become a hero today. and we all know who the bad guy is and who the criminal is. i firmly believe that russia will also be a peaceful country one day. and let me conclude by saying: glory to ukraine!
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, today’s debate is taking place in the midst of president putin’s unprovoked, unjustified and illegal war in ukraine. russia’s external aggression is accompanied by accelerating internal repression. media censorship imposed by the russian authorities has wiped out media freedom in russia. one of the most recent examples is the internationally well-known independent newspaper novaya gazeta, which has been forced to suspend its activities. the situation of human rights defenders is particularly dire. we deplore the decision of the russian supreme court to reject the appeal of memorial to reverse its forced closure. we praise the courage of the russian human rights defenders and activists who have established the council of russian human rights defenders and signed the manifesto denouncing russia’s invasion of ukraine. the european union strongly condemns the court ruling to extend the imprisonment of the russian opposition politician, mr aleksei navalny, by an additional nine years. we will continue calling on the russian authorities for his immediate and unconditional release as his imprisonment is politically motivated. we deeply regret that, as a result of russia’s behaviour, russian citizens will no longer be able to benefit from the protection granted by the european convention on human rights after september of this year. president putin is trying to turn back the clock to the times of the russian empire, but in doing so he is putting at risk the future of the russian people. we applaud russian independent media and russian ngos that defend the values of democracy, rule of law and fundamental freedoms. at the same time, we see that the ongoing crackdown on russia’s civil society and russia’s war against ukraine has triggered an exodus of large numbers of russian civil society activists and individual journalists. they will need further eu support to be able to continue their important work from abroad. the eu is committed to supporting ngos, civil society organisations, human rights defenders and independent journalists in and outside russia and, in doing so, averting the isolation of russian society as a whole.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 7 april 2022.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
mr president, first, i’d like to congratulate my colleague, angelika niebler, for her work on this report. of course, i was happy to vote in favour of it. in an increasingly digitalised world, we are a data-driven society. data-sharing has huge potential to inform and improve policy, from healthcare to energy efficiency. it was positive to see in this act, measures to help boost data-sharing across sectors and member states. some citizens are concerned that their data may be used to benefit businesses rather than society, or that their personal data will be exploited. trust is therefore a key consideration in data-sharing, and this act will ensure that data held by the public sector, industry and individuals will be shared in a secure, controlled and trustworthy way. this is a good report. i am pleased to support it.
mr president, i too voted 'for' and i congratulate the rapporteur. i think it is essential to realise that in this age data is a tremendous resource and how it is used is a priority for the european union and i am pleased that today we voted to approve a genuine legal instrument for data management that will encourage the widespread use of data for the benefit of all european citizens and our businesses. this law is a step forward towards a more competitive and efficient economy, but it is essential to guarantee the protection and access to secure and reliable data, especially in the strategic sectors of the european union. last but not least, the entire data package could play a particularly important role in cybersecurity, and recent events have shown us how much we need security.
mr. president, education is the cornerstone necessary for a democratic society, and i believe it is essential that we give future generations modern tools that help them understand what unites us, the values that define us, and, of course, create tools that stop populism, disinformation. all these new challenges are created with the purpose of dividing our states. we are here to defend values, to demonstrate our commitment to democracy, to defend the free world we believe in, and i believe it is essential that civic education be the engine that gives future generations a new european consciousness, in which we each preserve our own specificity, but at the same time, we are united in values.
the meeting is adjourned and will resume at 9.00 a.m. tomorrow, thursday, april 7, 2022. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the next item is the urgent debate on the report from the committee on regional development on the increased pre-financing from react-eu (com (2022) 0145 - c9-0127/2022 - com (2022) 0162 - c9-0132/2022 - 2022/0096 (cod)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you and good morning. i thank you for your support for the cohesion’s action for refugees in europe (care) initiative. thanks to your help, this is on its way for adoption in record time and will enter into force by the end of the week. however, the situation continues to deteriorate. refugees flee ukraine on a daily basis and we are now hosting over 3.5 million refugees. now, as before, europeans have welcomed them with warm hearts and open arms. from the smallest household to the largest municipality, we are welcoming you. we are living up to our highest values as europeans, and we can be proud. but this solidarity costs and public budgets were already strained by covid, especially in those member states coping with the most refugees. so, to complement care and to continue showing the solidarity and effective reactivity of the eu in addressing the most urgent needs, we propose to advance eur 3.5 billion in pre-financing from the 2021 react—eu allocation. all member states will benefit with an increase of pre-financing from the 11% already paid to 15%. but the frontline member states and those where refugees constitute more than 1% of the population will see pre-financing rise from 11% to 45%. the increase will also apply to the fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead). the additional pre-financing will reach member states immediately upon the entry into force of the proposal. in addition, to make administration quick and simple, a new simplified cost declaration is introduced. this is to say, member states will have the option of receiving €40 per week per refugee granted temporary protection for up to 13 weeks. we recognise, of course, that much more is needed from member states welcoming refugees, but this initiative is not alone. care allows member states to receive 100% co-financing until june 2022, and the european regional development fund and the european solidarity fund can be used differently to finance projects. in addition, many of the infrastructure and social needs can be supported under other eu funds, including mainstream cohesion policy. we are counting on your help to complete the remaining procedural steps towards adoption by making use of every possible day to secure entry into force as soon as possible after the plenary vote.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, my speaking time this morning is three minutes. these are three minutes in which, somewhere in ukraine, a rocket will be launched and turn somebody’s home into ashes. these are three minutes in which some government in europe will still be thinking about either sending support or a device for defence to ukraine. three minutes in which some broken ukrainian family will be trying to cross the european border in order to seek security and peace. these are three minutes in which a life will be lost and we cannot recover it. i believe that our actions with care and care+ will help those running for their lives and will go down in history. it will go down in history that europe showed solidarity and saved millions of lives, because we already have about 4 million on the territory of the european union. but i think we should look further to make a step forward. what we need is a european marshall plan, a long—term mechanism which will recover and rebuild ukraine after this horrible war that is going on there. i think this is the chance for europe to not only show solidarity, but for european companies to rebuild ukraine. and we will bring it back to a path of prosperity, peace and cooperation with the european union – something that we should have been doing over the last 15 years at least. but i think we are on the right track now. i don’t know what the outcome of the votes later on today will be, but i am sure that neither i, nor any of us, would like to leave our home, our country and our life, just like most ukrainians don’t want to. with this in mind, i am sure that the votes are going to show that we have learned the lessons of history and we are not going to repeat the mistakes that we’ve made. i think that, with this vote, we are going to show that we remain on the right side of history.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my group will unanimously support the proposal - the second commission proposal - to support ukrainian refugees here in the european union. we want to embrace the cities and communities and the many volunteers and welcome the refugees from ukraine. we want them to have support, to have housing, food, medical care, education and everything they need. this should be done as unbureaucratically as possible and with 100% pre-financing, and i have a request to the member states: please take advantage of this opportunity, made possible by a large amount of pre-financing from the european union, and pass the money on to the cities and municipalities that are currently working hard and doing a lot. but they also need our financial support. that is why it is so important that we adopt the proposal today. i also have a request to the commission, or rather an appeal to the commission: the refugees will not be able to return in a few days or a few weeks. this means that we must be prepared to support the cities and municipalities, the member states and the regions in the longer term. please consider how the unused 2022 european cohesion policy funds can also be used to support refugees seeking refuge in the european union. and i hope that we will soon have a third care++ proposal on the table to discuss this with each other.
on behalf of the renew group. mr vice-president, commissioner dalli, millions of women, children, old people have managed to flee the war in ukraine. many, however, stayed at home, hoping it would not be so bad. unfortunately, we saw civilians executed, women and children killed. the images of this weekend have marked, i think, all of us. we can't go back in time to try to save them, but we can try to give all the help they need, to those who have come to us in the countries of the european union. civil society has been exemplary in mobilizing in all of ukraine's neighbouring states, but also in states that refugees have transited through or decided to stay in until the war is over. however, what is needed is the intervention of the authorities, public support from funds that do not require the efforts of european citizens, citizens who have not yet recovered from the economic crisis and who have also been affected by the energy crisis. we therefore fully understand the need to make funds available to member states as quickly and easily as possible. and i supported this procedure with my colleagues in the committee on regional development. we also understand the immediate need to make their use more flexible and, above all, to increase the pre-financing rate so that the authorities have immediate access to these sums of money. it should be stressed, however, that these are european funds and as such need to be checked and audited, like all funds available to member states. even in times of crisis, the european parliament must have a say. we must be able to do our duty. each european institution must play the role assigned to it by the treaties. the decisions taken bilaterally by the european commission and the european council must be the exception, but only resorted to in extreme situations, because we, the institutions of the european union, are the first to respect the levers of power, the system of checks and balances, as a sine qua non of democracy. i trust that together, in the immediate future, we will be able to find the best solution.
mr president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, the precarious situation of roma has been acknowledged in the eu and in the member states. national strategies have been in place for over two decades now. but the hard truth is that little progress has been achieved. the majority of europe’s roma communities still live in poverty, often in favela-type settlements. this fact, honestly, is a shame for europe. in romania, eight out of ten roma live in a house without running water and seven out of ten children drop out of school. improving this situation requires three things: more humility, more empathy, and more well-coordinated work. we need more humility because we should not remain satisfied that we have a strategy. there is no quick fix to century-old prejudices, deprivation and segregation. we need more empathy. we must try to put ourselves in the shoes of a child living in a mud hut, going to school dirty, and being looked at badly by colleagues. what it means for a child when his parents cannot help him learn to read at home because they themselves cannot read. we cannot expect roma people to come out of their condition on their own. we must understand that also a roma child, like everyone else, is able to go to school if he’s fed, has clean clothes and is able to buy a bus ticket. lastly, we need well-coordinated, hard work at all levels. the member states cannot do this without the eu, but the eu cannot do it without the member states. we must move beyond formal requirements. we must develop better coordinated, comprehensive and well-funded transfer policies that are, in turn, implemented on the ground by the local authorities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder how many of us in this house have visited a marginalised roma community. maybe there would have been a lot more of us here if we had actually seen the reality on the ground. maybe that would help a lot of people understand that you can't talk about, as you do in a pandemic, good sanitation in communities that don't have running water or electricity. perhaps they would treat roma education differently in communities - here, the european commission, and in general the european community - where schools do not want to accept roma children or where it is almost impossible to transport children to school. we have many examples of integrated projects in the european union, but we also have many stories of abandonment: in pirita - in romania, in the communities in slovakia, visited by the labour commission. the feeling is that this roma minority is being forgotten. i would therefore like to hear from the commission what concrete legislative mechanisms it can put in place to bring about real change. what concrete plans does the commission have to change the future of communities affected by discrimination, unemployment and poverty, as frankly most of you here probably find it hard to imagine.
blue-card question. – this is a sad moment to see a colleague of the employment and social affairs committee suggesting basically that, because of the roma people, the access to electricity, water or housing is destroyed. the suggestion that roma are thieves or the fact that they are considered to be different types of human – not ordinary people, we have heard that before. that’s exactly the reason that we are talking about discrimination. so the question is: can you deny that these communities have been without access to education and to proper support?
madam president, 77 per cent of europeans would rather repair their property than change it. yet three quarters of them are forced to throw them away without repair. it is impossible to talk about the circular economy without the right to redress. it is unacceptable to deny consumers freedom of choice. we must ban planned obsolescence and the choice of repairability must become the default choice. the challenge is twofold: to create a sustainable single market and to increase the purchasing power of europeans. the right to redress and innovation can coexist perfectly well, innovation should not be used as an excuse for not recognising the right to redress. we talk about our daily lives and we talk about the planet, so let me conclude with a biological metaphor: the human body is the most beautiful machine. when you break a limb or have a health problem, what do you do? we're working on it. then why should what is obvious to man not also be so to what man makes?
i have to say, madam president, our grandparents used to take great pleasure in a product because they could use it for a long time. we live in a throwaway society now. this is particularly the case in the case of obsolete products, i.e. products whose life span has been artificially shortened, and in the case of products which cannot be repaired. it is high time that the resource-intensive linear economic model is a thing of the past and that we move quickly to a resource-efficient circular economy society. the right to repair and, in particular, the development of durable products are central to this. some member states are already moving in this direction. and about 80% of eu citizens would rather repair their product than buy a new one we give them that opportunity. we also need to work on product design. we need a product that can be repaired and not glued. and consumers need more power in their purchases with information about durability and repair options. that is why this resolution is so important. let us show the commission that we need and want an ambitious law!
i would like to thank the authors of this resolution, mr president, for calling for attention to the right to reparation. we've had the throw-away-and-rebuy revenue model for too long -- decades. throw it away, buy it, throw it away, buy it. but that time has to end, and i think we need to think about a new revenue model. throwing it away blind, that's it. and we're going to make products that we can repair, that last longer. and if a product costs 10% more and lasts 30% longer, then no one complains and everyone deserves: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the closed material loop must be the big goal. we must try to keep the raw materials within the european union and reuse them for the production of new appliances. we must ensure that products are produced in europe, because that creates jobs and reduces dependence on third countries. i welcome the commission's proposal with confidence and hope that it will lead to less waste and more consumer satisfaction and that we will indeed be able to use our phones for a little longer than two years.
madam president, commissioner jourová, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing more and more products with all the components sealed, and the unsealing of the seal entails the loss of the guarantee, even when it is a replacement for a secondary part. there is also a tendency to grant the guarantee only if working with certain repairers agreed by the manufacturing company. the right to repair products must be a consumer right, without minor repairs being a loss of the guarantee. the design of products should ensure access to easily replaceable components so that the consumer does not have to wait for long periods and pay excessive amounts for minor repairs. ensuring the right to repair means products used for longer, but also developing a complementary economic sector, that of repair services, means innovation, independence for many micro-enterprises and can make a major contribution to reducing waste. however, we must ensure that the right to repair does not mean the obligation to repair, while upholding this right does not impose financial burdens that make it difficult to purchase new products.
madam president, this week, the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) highlighted that we need to reduce emissions now across all sectors. we need to make the ambitions of the circular economy a reality. that means ensuring that products last longer and can be repaired. consumers, of course, want to be empowered to make decisions based on the environmental and the overall cost of a product. we've all experienced the frustrating scenarios whereby the spare parts are not available or they are too expensive and the recommendation is to buy a new item, where the screen or the battery of our phone or ipad or electronic product can’t be replaced and, again, the advice is to purchase a new product. it's frustrating, it's costly and, in today's environmentally challenged world, it’s not good enough. and there is a demand from consumers, we all know of the polling, such reports like this we have from numerous results; they want more information when purchasing – information on the durability, the ability to repair and the environmental impact of the production, use and disposal of the product. and these questions can and they will be addressed, through the supply chains, more innovative design and the wide availability of spare parts, similar items to local repair businesses. but this won't happen without effective legislation and now, following the closing of commission’s public consultation, we look forward to that legislation and the introduction of the right to repair over the coming months.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this debate, which is very encouraging for the commission because i am pleased that we are so aligned on the aim for a more sustainable consumption. indeed, as ms schaldemose said, ‘we do not have two and a half planets, we just have one’. so it’s high time we do more for more sustainable consumption, which is more environmentally friendly. we try to do it in a holistic way, coordinating policy actions between different policy areas. only such an approach can reconcile all related aspects and interests with the overall aim of more sustainable consumption and effective consumer rights, as well as the interests of the manufacturing industry and the retail and repair business. as we heard here several times, we should avoid disproportionate costs. it must not be projected into increased prices for the consumers, and it should be a win—win situation, as dita charanzová said. we also heard, for instance from mr schwab and mr jurzyca, about the point or aspect of innovations. we should not hinder innovations by introducing measures which would go against technological development. you spoke about refrigerators here and some domestic machines and devices. i love the manual meat grinder which i got from my granny. i love it. it’s the oldest thing i have in my household. it’s even older than me, and it’s very sustainable. more than 70 years old. can you imagine? this is real quality. but i do not think that we want to use these manual things forever so we understand that we have to be open to technological innovations as well. your resolution is a most valuable input and support for our common political aim to achieve more sustainable consumption. on behalf of the commission, i can confirm that we strongly count on the european parliament to support the commission proposals on the table and the coming one and to deal with this in a swift manner.
nice to see you all here. please place your voting cards in the machines. we have a few important votes to take in the next few minutes so we now start the voting session.
on befhalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre). – madam president, as coordinator of the european parliament’s negotiating team on the gas storage proposal, and on behalf of all colleagues from the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i would like to request to refer this file back to the itre committee for negotiations.
dear colleagues, this is a very, very important moment and a significant step. i think this position of this parliament is clear and sends the strongest of messages of support to the people on the front line in ukraine. well done.
mr president, russian orthodox patriarch kirill, responding to a request that he intervenes with russia’s leaders, with whom he is in a very close partnership, to end the war in ukraine, accused the west of disregarding russia’s security concerns and stoking tensions between the two countries in a bid to weaken russia. he blessed the russian troops fighting in ukraine later. any religion can serve and become a tool in a war of propaganda and disinformation. that’s why, dear colleagues, i prepare and ask your support for the following oral amendment, i quote: ‘condemns the role of patriarch kirill of moscow, head of the russian orthodox church, for providing theological cover for russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. praises the courage of 300 priests of the russian orthodox church who have signed a letter condemning the aggression, grieving over the ordeal of the ukrainian people and asking to stop the war.’
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 12.49 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on mental health (2022/2619 ((rsp)). i would remind you that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. after you have inserted your voting card into the voting machine, you can then apply for spontaneous word messages and blue cards via your voting machine. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be dealt with from the central podium, with the exception of spontaneous speeches, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i am extremely pleased to join you today to discuss mental health, which is a precious, essential, but also a vulnerable, good that we must all cherish and protect. sadly, two major crises have starkly reminded us of that: the covid—19 pandemic and russia’s unprovoked military aggression against ukraine. the brutal invasion of ukraine has heaped suffering on its innocent people. over four million people have already been forced to flee their country, leaving homes and loved ones behind. we are also extremely concerned at the psychological consequences of the invasion, especially on children and other vulnerable groups. we are therefore determined and are undertaking various immediate actions so as to offer them the right multi-level support to meet their mental health and well-being needs. in the past few weeks my colleague, stella kyriakides, has visited centres for refugees in poland, helsinki and also in my home country of czechia. in the centre of poland, ms kyriakides witnessed over 8000 people, many of them children, who were sitting in silence. they were experiencing a collective trauma after suddenly having lost everything, the kind of trauma you and i can barely imagine. that’s why we are taking actions and measures and, at the same time, exploring new ways to support the mental health needs of refugees from ukraine with all our means. some of these include training courses and e-learning modules on migration and health, which are available in many languages on our health policy platform and the european centre for disease prevention and control website. they build on our experience of meeting migrant and refugee needs in 2015. the commission is also in touch with mental health europe and several of their member organisations to understand and better respond to the complex challenges on the ground. in addition, under the eu4health programme, we are intensely working on an agreement with the international federation of red cross and red crescent societies to provide direct trauma treatment and mental health support on the ground. we will launch a call for proposals this month to implement best practices on the mental health of migrants and refugees so that we can support ukrainian refugees. meanwhile, we also know that the ongoing covid—19 pandemic will affect the mental health of our citizens for years to come. since the start of the pandemic, we have taken a range of specific actions to support stakeholders, exchange knowledge and encourage best practice. let me give you some examples. the 2021 eu health award will reward community—based initiatives, alleviating the mental health impact of covid—19. the award ceremony on 4 may will pay tribute to several outstanding actions and actors. in the same area, a call under the eu4health programme to implement best practices tackling mental health challenges during covid—19 closed on 25 january. up to eur 750 000 is available to help roll out two practices. work on the ground is due to start in the autumn. mental health is a prominent and recurrent theme in the commission’s support for member states. we have translated our concern into action and ramped up our support for health ministries and stakeholders. last year saw the start of two major eu funded actions. in the first, ten member states are working together on best practice around preventing depression. in the second, 21 member states are working together on suicide prevention and community—based mental health services. the commission’s financial support totals eur 7 million. in february, to mark the european year of youth, we launched a call for proposals for two best practices, each with a eu 4 million grant, to support the mental health of vulnerable children and young people. this year’s eu4health work programme also provides for a eur 1 million direct grant to the age adapted who regional office for europe to provide capacity—building support for member states through training and cross—national learning. as announced in the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2021—27, the commission is also assessing emerging issues related to workers’ mental health, in particular due to the digitalisation of the labour market. by cooperating with member states and social partners, the commission aims to develop guidance for action to address relevant challenges. given the need for awareness-raising and exchange of good practices on psycho-social risks at work, the european union information agency for occupational safety and health will launch a ‘healthy workplaces’ campaign for the years 2023—25 on creating a safe and healthy digital future, covering in particular psychosocial risks. honourable members, these initiatives are not a one—off. they show we are stepping up our efforts on mental health and we won’t stop there. further actions will be included under the commission’s new healthier together initiative to help member states reduce the burden of non-communicable diseases. mental health has also been reflected quite strongly in the discussions that took place in the conference on the future of europe.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, it is a little bit sad that we discuss at this late time in the plenary session about such an important topic. mental health was already a critical issue in the european union after the covid-19 pandemic. but right now, with the aggression and the crisis that is caused by russia, with the energy prices going up, we might have second pandemics. the pandemics of depression and anxiety caused by uncertainty, by hardship, by lack of hope. and we need to give back hope to the european citizens. we appreciate the efforts done in the field of occupational health and safety related to the agenda of the swedish presidency and all the efforts. we appreciate also the strategy on care. but as the chair of the employment and social affairs committees, as a renew europe member, i am coming today with the proposal towards you. our citizens need a european strategy for mental health, for prevention, treatment and monitoring mental problems. thank you so much. and we are looking forward to seeing that initiative.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
mr president, the schengen area is one of the great assets of the european union. a common market, the free movement of people within the union, is possible precisely because of this space. it is therefore natural that we should do everything we can to make it work as well as possible, to make the control rules as transparent as possible. the existence of internal borders has been a real burden during the pandemic, when some member states reintroduced border controls, thus hampering not only the movement of people, but also economic exchanges, through waiting times at internal borders. we in romania see how difficult it is to really integrate into the single market when you are not a member of the schengen area. i voted today to improve the evaluation mechanism, because clear rules increase romania's chances of joining the area more quickly, and with accession, the chances of cohesion increase, the chances of small and medium-sized enterprises to be truly part of the european single market.
mr president, i was relieved to see that the situation in afghanistan was on the plenary agenda this week. i gave my strong support to the eu’s solidarity towards ukraine, but we must also continue to advocate for those suffering under the oppressive taliban regime, particularly for women, girls and the lgbti community. i was horrified by the news on 23 march that girls’ secondary schools in afghanistan had been ordered to close just hours after reopening. and, therefore, i fully support the calls in this resolution for the taliban to uphold their commitment to ensuring the right to education for girls. i also support the many other important calls in this resolution: to allow women to fully participate in government and society, to allow women to access proper health care, to release all activists and human rights defenders who have been detained for advocating for the rights of women and girls and to stop all intimidation and harassment of these groups. i was pleased to vote in favour of this resolution.
mr president, over 4.3 million people have fled ukraine since russia’s invasion on 24 february. according to unicef, over half of those fleeing are minors. this is a massive humanitarian crisis at the hands of a ruthless dictator, and the numbers will continue to grow. european member states are opening their borders and citizens are opening their homes to those fleeing the war. but the journey to safety is not an easy one. unaccompanied minors in particular are at a risk of abuse, exploitation and trafficking. this resolution calls for the creation of safe passages for children fleeing the conflict. it emphasises that measures must be put in place to prevent trafficking and abduction. it goes without saying that i voted in favour of this resolution, and i was proud to do so.
mr president, the member states of the european union, which have already taken in refugees from ukraine, have made a special effort, have tried as best they could to adapt immediately to the needs on the ground, and this is what we see every day in the villages and towns of my country, romania. i talked to representatives of civil society, public authorities, who overnight shifted their priorities and from routine activities became real refugee reception centers. their effort was impressive, everyone's effort was impressive. but with this resolution we want to draw attention to the fact that what is needed now is a coordinated effort, joint action by all the member states hosting refugee children and young people, a plan for the future, whether we are talking about safety against trafficking and exploitation of children, about their education in the short and medium term, about family reunification after the end of the war. children need protection, and the european union must work together to provide the help they need.
mr. president, fellow citizens, putin is a criminal. today's russia is a captured state, a state turned into a gulag. for putin, notions such as life, human dignity, freedom of thought, do not exist. among his main concerns today are propaganda, disinformation, torture, mass murder. what has happened in the last few weeks in ukraine forces us to think seriously about the consequences of this war. we can't let innocent people die in pain anymore. that is why i voted with all my heart for this resolution, because i believe we have an obligation to impose a total embargo against the russian federation. we cannot allow another day to go by without allowing putin to attack europe for commercial reasons.
in writing. i support the promotion of organic agri-food products at eu level. however, the european commission has to take into account both the absorption capacity of the market and the percentage of organically farmed land in each member state. without demand and organic growth, the eu's targets will not only be unattainable, but will put even more pressure on the agricultural sector, which is struggling at the moment. romania has huge potential in the organic market, but romanian farmers need to be supported not only at national level but also at european level, through coordinated efforts to open new markets outside the eu borders. at the same time, it should not be forgotten that organic production requires more natural resources, such as water. romania therefore needs to upgrade its irrigation network so that it can support a high percentage of organically farmed agricultural land.
i was born in the soviet era in the u.s.s.r., today ukraine, and i lived this ban on attachment to spiritual identity to the fullest. the church was outlawed then. it is not far from the situation we see today when patriarch kirill, together with putin, under the pretext of defending interests that we do not understand, attacks the christians of ukraine by demolishing churches. i've been to a lot of countries on behalf of the european parliament: iraq, where i met with the patriarch of babylon and saw what it means to be a christian in iraq, what it means to have the courage to take on that identity. and i think it's important to discuss these issues, and i congratulate the initiators of the report.
i come from a country, romania, where this blue economy means balance. in particular, i invite everyone to see the danube delta, a natural monument that should be appreciated by all of europe. but unfortunately, we are not alone in this process, and what happens in the area affects our lives every day. i hope that after this report, we can find the wise solutions and especially the funding necessary to make a goal that we want viable for our children can persist for millennia. and i hope that in this european parliament romania's objectives can be supported.
mr. president, there are superheroes and there are heroes among us. during the pandemic, they were doctors, nurses, farmers, essential workers. today, the heroes are volunteers helping refugees from ukraine. they do what national authorities could never have done on their own. in romania, however, the government has not provided any financial support to associations doing this work. we can't wait for national politicians. the european union must provide support directly managed by the commission to ngos and volunteers. we need to do good together, more involved, closer to the citizen. "no one is useless in this world where we must carry the burdens of others", said charles dickens. and in our world of increasing disaster, you are the heroes, and i thank you.
i want to bring up a subject that should concern us more, because the food crisis that is coming is being generated in part by the rising cost of energy. but let us not forget that the main headquarters of these problems is leaving the kremlin, because this criminal who started the war against ukraine did not think for a moment that, in addition to ukrainian citizens, hundreds of millions of citizens around the world are affected by the costs that are being generated, and the food crisis is forcing the european union to take a series of preventive measures to support the agriculture of the european union. one of the measures is to increase subsidies. i believe that doubling subsidies at this time is essential to prevent a major crisis against european citizens. in this respect, let us not forget that wheat, which cost 200 euros a year ago, today is 400 tons. and this signal says it all.
it's official. we're in a minefield. the desire to extend the digital green certificate for one year brings us to this very minefield because there was no medical or epidemiological logic in instituting such a move, but only a tool that destroyed both society and the economy, and even the health system. i'm just reminding you that the vaccinated can get infected and can transmit the disease and can even be unimmunized. and in these conditions, millions of romanian citizens were denied the one great right that was hard won with my country's accession to the european union, that of free movement based only on the identity card issued by my country, romania. i'm a physician, an emergency physician. i worked throughout this pandemic in a coronavirus support hospital, the nicolae oblu emergency clinical hospital. and we've consistently come up with a coherent strategy based on testing, screening, providing medication and vaccination based only on informed consent. i only care about people's lives and science, and that is why i am asking you to vote against the extension of this digital green passport.
mr president, for the people back home, everything has been getting more expensive for some time. we have therefore been warning about inflation for some time. brussels and frankfurt said it was all very well. when inflation kept rising, they said it was only temporary; i was going to raise prices for a while, but this was nothing to wake up from. as inflation continues to break records, another culprit is being pointed out: - what? he plays a part, of course, but we must also dare to be honest as politicians. the causes of inflation were sown long ago, but we have been too long in the pursuit of facts. the interest rate should have been raised much earlier. public spending, for example in the context of nextgenerationeu, has added fuel to the fire and threatens to create a new scenario: stagflation is a problem. economic growth is declining and inflation is rising. we know how to drive out this stagflation, but are our policymakers and the central bank capable enough to make the right choices?
mr president, i take the floor to draw attention to the recent decision of the british court to authorize the extradition of julian assange to the united states of america, a decision which is of the greatest concern, especially in view of previous refusals of extradition in the face of the alleged existence of risks to his life. or the concern expressed by a un special rapporteur who, denouncing arbitrary detention and years of cruel treatment, warns of the real risk of serious violations of their rights, including freedom of expression, a fair trial, the prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, if extradition is confirmed. the attempt to extradite, criminalize and arrest julian assange represents an unacceptable pressure to condition the publication of information of public interest. we therefore call on the british authorities to refuse extradition and on the us authorities to drop the charges against assange with a view to his immediate release, which we hereby call on members to sign.
mr. chairman, i would like to devote my one minute to the need to end our dependence on russian gas, because the war in ukraine has shown beyond doubt our weakness and dependence on a dictator and his soldiers, who are capable of committing incredible atrocities in ukraine. that's why this addiction is still unacceptable, i want to emphasize. and for us, the challenge is to cultivate our own self-sufficiency, of course, the transition to a green economy, the sustainability, the resilience of our system. i would like to emphasize that i did not vote for the immediate cessation of russian gas supplies, because that would also mean an immediate collapse. this does not mean that we can continue to ignore or downplay the atrocities that are taking place in ukraine. we need to move away from russian gas, and i agree with that. to reorient our economy, our infrastructure and build our own energy union and the self-sufficiency and resilience of our system.
recently, a number of challenges have emerged in transnistria that are designed to generate potential instability in the republic of moldova. we must not fall for those who want to start a new conflict in the region, but we must be cautious and increase both support for the republic of moldova and our presence on the ground. i say from here, from the plenary of the european parliament, to all the citizens of the republic of moldova, that europe and romania will not abandon them. as i said earlier as minister when i provided assistance for the european integration of the republic of moldova, its european path cannot be blocked. because this is the way to the development of the country and a better life for the citizens. i therefore call on the european commission to further assist the republic of moldova in its efforts to achieve eu candidate status and to implement an accelerated path towards integration. only in the union will the republic of moldova be guaranteed the security it needs and the chance to develop.
the european union was built on the idea of peace, on core values such as respect for law and treaties, dialogue, democracy, respect for human rights, tolerance. but for several years now, we have seen increasingly severe attacks on our values, on european values, both through online manipulation, through the spread of fake news, through the support of extremist parties by third countries. in the last two months we have seen an open attack on a neighbouring state, ukraine, which wanted to adopt our values, european values, and threats against other states which want to respect these values. democracy and tolerance seem to be bothersome outside the european union, but worse, we have union citizens who want these values to disappear. i believe it is time, ladies and gentlemen, that each of us who want a united european union should clearly and openly uphold the democratic values, tolerance, which must be respected by anyone who wants to be a citizen of the european union.
we're going through several simultaneous crises and we're preparing for another one: an indefinite recession. between anti-putin strategies and pro-european measures, we should not ignore a phenomenon that could deal a fatal blow to democracy: the resurgence of extremism in a situation that creates perfect conditions. we breathed a sigh of relief at the victory of emmanuel macron. but if we do an honest calculation, we see that the extremist camp and those susceptible to being seduced by it are not very far from the winning percentage. and russia is working on a continuous fire, and has thrown its fury into the battle of trolls with the mission of misinforming and recruiting sympathizers in the democratic world. the war did not disarm the extremists. it's just an interlude because their ideology is confused with putin's. but it's not just putin, it's the mistakes, the lack of vision and the adaptation of some traditional parties to the needs of this new world. all of this needs to be urgently repaired to bring back to our side those who have strayed or are preparing to stray from democracy. the tide of extremism must be broken before it's too late.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. max levin, oksana paulina, brent reno, all three of them have fallen victim to putin's brutal war of aggression. murdered and killed for doing their job as journalists. they risked their lives to provide us with information and the truth. a free press is the mortal enemy of authoritarian dictators like putin. their goal is to shake the belief in the truth, so that they get away with all their lies in the end. before the lie can become the truth, the freedom of the press must first give way, and with it those who fill it with life. but today we find that without a free press, there is no democracy. that is why journalists deserve our full protection. but press freedom is not only threatened outside the european union. the road to the end of press freedom does not start in a hail of bullets, but it begins quietly and covertly with intimidation, targeted threats, costly legal proceedings. in the european union, courageous journalists are also a thorn in the side of politicians who are corrupt, businessmen who want to make more money. one of the tools they use to silence journalists is intimidation suits, or slapps. these lawsuits are not about winning, they're about simply draining the defendants mentally and financially, so that they stop exposing scandals, so that they stop doing journalistic work. cases such as the murder of journalist daphne caruana galizia make it clear how important the proposed anti-slapp directive is for us to put an end to intimidation cases in the european union as well. and i thank the european commission for taking up the european parliament's proposals for a good anti-slapp directive. together we will ensure that journalists in the european union can do their work without being threatened or intimidated. the fight against slapp begins today, but it is not over. we owe it to journalists like max levin, oksana paulina and brent reno.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, an attack on a journalist is an attack on us all. i started my day by reading these words from occrp. emilia șercan is a romanian investigative journalist whose private life and reputation are tarnished as we speak only because she had the courage to reveal a rotten system. when diana oncioiu, vlad stoicescu and ovidiu vanghele shed light on corruption and abuse within the church, they rapidly became targets of abusive lawsuits. many other names are on this list, and they’re not limited to only one member state. the anti-slapp directive proposal is the first piece of eu legislation which directly addresses the protection of journalists, as it deals with abusive litigation. i would like to thank the commission for making this possible, and i would like to thank the president of this house for making it possible because it was not an easy fight. this proposal will be followed by the media freedom act later this year. the mfa should provide us with a surgical tool addressing main threats to the freedom of press, while at the same time avoiding ministries of truth or tearing apart functioning models where journalism thrives. we have long called for such legislation, and this is just the beginning of a complex road to implementation. but it is finally happening now. let us not forget those journalists who are reporting from the war in ukraine or are oppressed by putin’s regime. ten journalists have been murdered so far by the russian army in ukraine while doing their job. putin’s war is also a war against free press. journalists have been targeted. they have been captured and abducted, held hostage, having their names on extermination lists. these are war crimes and every single one of them needs to be paid for. we stand with them all. we cherish their work and bravery. we need to support them with facts and actions, not just words. they are gatekeepers of freedom, pluralist, informed and resilient societies. long live a free and independent press.
mr president, my colleague axel voss was right: artificial intelligence is an opportunity to be seized. the benefits of this technology are many. for example, they can be applied to medicine and help save many lives. the machine, however, only has meaning if man retains absolute control. the reflexes, which the most advanced technologies can program, will always be inferior to the discernment, free will and sensitivity inherent in human beings. it's all about the use. an example of a good use of artificial intelligence is the regulation of the internet with the help of algorithms to end the anarchy that reigns there. we have just reached a historic political agreement in europe: the digital services act (dsa) will make it possible to combat the most unacceptable deviations of social networks. the principle? it's simple: anything that's illegal offline has to become illegal online. no more, no less than that. no, hate and harassment messages are not opinions that would be part of freedom of expression. on the contrary, they silence all who fear becoming victims. are, were, those who harassed and called for the murder of samuel paty on the internet, carriers of freedom of expression? the question is already answered. as planned, the new rules will apply to search engines and all major social networks. and as brilliant and innovative as elon musk is, he's going to have to submit twitter to it like any other digital giant. protecting citizens from online hate is a great use of the most advanced technology. and here is also a very appropriate use of the european union.
mr president, first and foremost, my congratulations to you, axel voss, and to the shadow rapporteurs for the very important work that you’ve done with this report. it was my privilege to serve as chair of the aida committee for the duration of this mandate, and i am very proud about the way in which we have achieved our objectives. as chair, and even before, when negotiating the mandate of the committee, i imagined aida as a place where we, as parliament, think politically about the future of artificial intelligence, a place where we have an honest, introspective and forward—looking assessment of our technological competitiveness on the global stage, and a place where we think beyond the status quo, where we look at the next steps to 2030 and even past that threshold. the aida report captures this vision. so here are three main points i will take away from our work in the aida committee and from this report. first, artificial intelligence is no longer a technical subject. ai is a political or rather – as i have said many times – a geopolitical issue. i am happy that in our work in aida and in this report, we did not shy away from making this point very clearly. we need closer cooperation with our like—minded democratic partners in setting the rules of the digital future. we need to make strategic choices based on our values, and this may come at odds with how other players on the global stage view the role and future of ai in their societies. second, artificial intelligence is, no doubt about it, an opportunity. it is not only an opportunity to improve efficiency in every sector of our economy, it is an important opportunity for us to correct historical biases and discrimination in our societies and, quite literally, build a better future. this leads me to the last, but very important, conclusion. at the end of the aida mandate and after working on this report, parliament is better equipped to regulate the use of technology to work on acts such as the artificial intelligence act, the first legislation of its kind worldwide. we have explored, we have learned and we have defined our political vision. now it’s time to write the laws. once again, congratulations to you, rapporteur, to the coordinators and to the shadow rapporteurs for the work we’ve done together.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur. i think this is a hugely important topic, first of all because the technological advances have given us a new digital world that has fundamentally transformed our lives. and with this transformation, extraordinary opportunities have been created that must first and foremost serve the people, our citizens. but at the same time, we have to look at the risks, and that's why i think the rules we're making have to be very clear, so that they inspire trust. and here, it is the commission's role to make sure that investment in artificial intelligence is consistent, so that we can recover the distance that exists between us and other countries, because only then can we get back to occupying the place that we deserve on the globe.
madam president, madam commissioner, it was necessary for putin to demonstrate to us that gazprom is more efficient than the red army in order to discuss the need for energy autonomy in europe. it is well known that at european level we do not have a framework as good for gas reserves as we have for oil, for example. and my question to you is: what concrete measures has the commission taken to support the states so that they can increase their gas storage capacity?
my next question is related to the fact that if the commission takes into account the joint purchase of gas in the future, the purchase of these stocks linked to reserves?
mr president, commissioner, technological progress has brought us extraordinary opportunities and has changed our lives for the better, but we see that when states like the russian federation use modern tools to attack states, to attack entities, to threaten european democracy, this requires a rapid and united response. it is essential that the european union establishes a common cyber unit because we need common defence in this extremely dangerous terrain. in the past few days, thousands of cyber attacks have been directed against romania and i think it is absolutely essential to understand that this enemy we have, this empire led by a criminal is becoming more and more dangerous and we need modern tools to defend our values and democracy day by day.
mr president, commissioner, i have been to ukraine in the last two months at least four times. i was there to be with people who are going through some very difficult times. i've seen people who are scared of war, i've seen people who have left forever their homes that no longer exist. but it's essential to understand that in addition to this war started by a criminal who is temporarily in the kremlin, because it's not forever and our lives will return to normal, we must do what is necessary to help the european economies that are badly affected. one of the most vulnerable segments right now, because alongside this war-generated crisis, we have the energy crisis, is tourism. in this respect, i believe it is essential to create the necessary resources, the necessary support and the policies that need to be implemented immediately in order to help this vital segment for europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by warmly thanking the rapporteur, javier zarzalejos, for excellent and constructive work done on this file on the new europol mandate, together with all the shadow rapporteurs. i think your common work really made it possible for us to have constructive negotiations in the trilogue and a swift agreement. since the commission proposed europol’s new mandate, the unthinkable happened. we did not expect war crimes committed in europe. the ukrainian prosecutor-general identifies thousands of suspected russian war crimes – looting, murder, torture and rape. a joint investigation team will collect evidence. europol is ready to support a joint investigation team and work with eurojust when needed and when requested. we did also not expect millions of ukrainian refugees coming into the eu. millions of women and children exposed to the danger of trafficking. to fight this threat, europol has set up a special task force to fight trafficking in human beings. its new mandate will help europol to step up the fight against these new threats, against all threats and against potential threats. europol can help to organise a law enforcement response to major cross-border cyber attacks and help to prevent infiltration by foreign fighters. the compromise you found allows europol to propose to member states to issue alerts on suspected terrorists into the schengen database. what we did expect when we put forward europol’s new mandate was the need to fight crime in a digital age. in a digital age, the clues to solving crimes are in the cloud, clues that can save lives and stop criminals, terrorists or child abusers, on services in data centres, often across national borders. europol will soon be able to get data directly from private companies and analyse it to identify which member states should open an investigation. the political agreement that you reached is very important. it makes sure europol can continue to process large volume of data. that’s one of the main reasons i proposed to boost europol’s mandate in the first place. europol must have legal clarity because processing big data is key to solving almost all serious organised crimes. just one example. in october 2017, a maltese journalist was murdered when a bomb went off in her car. daphne caruana galizia, honoured by you, by this house, by the european parliament, with a special prize for journalists awarded in her name. europol supported the investigation, helping to compare data from telecom masts with billing information, with the suspects’ smartphones, laptops and storage devices. these proceedings have taken years and are not yet over. one killer has been convicted. other suspects are still in custody. and that’s why it’s important that the new mandate makes clear there is no doubt europol can analyse and store information while an investigation continues, while national authorities are authorised to use the data. this is europol’s core task, to support national law enforcement in their investigations. if processing big data is key to fighting crime, artificial intelligence is the only way to analyse big data. in the encrochat case alone, french and dutch police captured 120 million text messages. europol has 536 people working in its operational department. they can’t process that without technology. that’s more than 200 000 messages each. and the clock is ticking. delays cost lives. so europol built an artificial intelligence tool to support the encrochat investigation, to look for key words hinting at violence and murder in different languages, even in slang, allowing police to investigate these crimes and to stop murders from happening. with its new mandate, europol can greatly step up on research with a stronger role in advising on priorities of the eu security research agenda and an increased research staff – almost ten-fold to 33 – and with budget for innovation projects increased to eur 45 million and with a strong legal basis to develop it tools of artificial intelligence, not only limited to specific operations like encrochat, but also to develop general law enforcement tools, for example, tools to fight child sexual abuse more effectively. europol must keep on file all information on it tools and algorithm for defence lawyers to access if needed. this is unique in the world, a model of transparent and responsible law enforcement innovation. a stronger mandate for europol comes with stronger safeguards. a reinforced data protection network, a new fundamental rights officer – that was a strong wish of the european parliament – and greater powers for oversight for the joint parliamentary scrutiny group on europol. protecting security and upholding fundamental rights go hand in hand. values are at the heart of the new mandate. europol will soon be able to propose member states to investigate crimes without a cross-border element, crimes that don’t cross national borders but do violate other boundaries – our common union interests and our fundamental values. now we need to take the next step to get a new mandate fully operational. when you vote on this mandate tomorrow, it will be a bad day for criminals and a good day for europol. thank you for your support, for your excellent work on this important proposal.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, europeans rightly expect a high level of security in the european union, and this is why a strong europol has always been and will always be a key priority for our group. and this is also why this new mandate is such a good thing, because the threats of today and tomorrow are not the same as those of yesterday, and so must be our response. crime is becoming ever more digital, and we need to ensure that law enforcement can rely on the right tools to take on these criminals. the mandate that we are voting on tomorrow does exactly that. first, through direct cooperation with private parties, by being able to receive data from them directly, the agency can tap into an important source of relevant information, and it can make sure that that information gets to the right authority in the right member state. law enforcement in the eu as a whole will be better equipped to fight sexual abuse, terrorism and serious crime. second, through its improved capacity to process large and complex data sets, europol was already the expert in this field and will become even more so. and thirdly, through research and innovation, europol is perfectly placed to monitor emerging technologies and to develop ways of using them to keep our citizens better protected. these very important steps amend the central role of europol in the european security architecture, and it does so in a very european way by also matching it with increased safeguards. so the only thing i would like to add is to add my congratulations to rapporteur zarzalejos for this excellent work.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as someone said, this debate is scheduled at the end of today’s plenary agenda – the graveyard shift – not because of the wonderful contributions by all the speakers, but because this debate revolves around one of the most difficult questions we face again and again in this parliament, a question that is relevant to all citizens and thus to all parliamentarians: what is the right balance between protecting fundamental rights and the public interest? in the netherlands, we have seen an awful example of where this balance tipped over. central to the child benefit scandal was a blacklist of potential fraudsters that turned innocent citizens into defenceless victims through the abuse of data. indeed there is a thin line between risk—based objective investigations and unfair prosecutions and trials. to prevent us from crossing this thin line, we need safeguards. we need effective redress methods, independent audits and strict data retention periods. of course, let me be clear, cooperation of law enforcement agencies across national borders is inevitable to be effective against international crime. there’s no doubt about that. however, the provisional agreement we are discussing lacks the safeguards that i’ve been looking for and, at the same time, also opens the door to real—time biometric recognition. the agreement may very well cross the thin line between risk—based investigations and unfair prosecution. it should worry parliamentarians, and most certainly eu citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, criminals do not stand still. in fact, they are often faster, more agile, more innovative in deploying new technologies for criminal purposes. in the real world this translates into innocent people being trapped into fraud, children being exploited for sexual purposes and terrorists achieving their goals. we therefore need law enforcement that is competitive in the digital age, law enforcement able to innovate and leverage cutting—edge technology to fight crime, to enforce law and to keep our societies safe. and that is what we as legislators have well understood and have diligently done with this new mandate that we entrust tomorrow to europol. we have also strengthened democratic oversight, safeguards, transparency because the rights of our citizens and the values of our union come first. but as we act responsibly and diligently as legislators, so too europol must understand that their new mandate is not a blank cheque. they hold vast amounts of data which they now must manage with utmost responsibility and in full alignment with edps. they receive new investigative powers for which they are accountable in terms of respecting procedural rights. for that, they’ll have a human rights officer in their ranks who must be given the space and the resources to perform his or her role properly. i therefore call on europol and on the commission as the guardian of our rules in the eu to take these new functions very seriously, to internalise the duty of care they have towards our european citizens and the scrutiny they owe towards this parliament that represents them.
mr president, the european elections are the democratic foundation of the european union. the constitution of the european parliament represents, and should continue to represent, the will of the european citizens, which gives the european project its full legitimacy. that means young people should be encouraged to express themselves politically on issues that matter to them, including being able to vote at the age of 16. this means that the principles of electoral equality and equal opportunities, especially between women and men, must be strengthened. this also means that the success of the european project must be shaped at national level, at the level of each citizen, which is why i voted against it.
mr. president, we need to eat better and healthier. our quality of life is indisputably dependent on environmental protection and a consumer-centred agriculture. so we need organic farming. however, we are now at risk of a global food crisis caused by putin's russia-led war, which has massively disrupted food production and further raised prices in europe. first of all, we must discuss today the food security of europe. increasing agricultural productivity in europe, more direct subsidies to farmers, vat reductions on essential foodstuffs and ambitious measures to encourage sustainable production are essential. i supported this report.
mr president, we talk about the acute crises facing humanity, but no one talks about a silent crisis that is tacitly destroying the stability and prosperity of states in the medium and long term: the global education crisis. one in three children in the world still doesn't have access to the internet. too many children are not getting an education, living in poverty, or participating in a schooling that doesn't lead to learning. 617 million children are failing to acquire the minimum skills in reading and mathematics, even though two-thirds of them are in school. the european union, as the largest donor of development assistance, has a responsibility to advance and finance a strategy to promote education in partner countries. we can't continue to jeopardize the future of entire generations of children. i supported this report.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear guests, the cruel, illegal and irresponsible attack of putin’s russia on ukraine has killed so far thousands of people, brought full—scale war to europe and destroyed the remaining naive trust in a rule—based relationship with russia. economic and social implications are only part of this, as esther de lange mentioned in her speech. but this is the part that shouldn’t be neglected. we are dealing with a difficult combination of high inflation that will be boosted by the war. the implication for some member states of high inflows of refugees, as well as disruption for businesses for firms that had ties with russia or ukraine. lack of public confidence is only completing the picture. most of the economic forecasts are still assuming a very moderate impact on economic growth, in the magnitude just slightly above 1%. this is something that we can deal with, but these assumptions are based on the condition that there is no disruption of energy supply to europe. we should also have in mind that the impact is not equally spread. anyway, we must take some policy action. this should be fact—based, but should be effective and quick. first, we must get ready for an interruption of the gas supply. everyday moscow can decide to cut the supply. better preparation means that the damaging costs will be lower. secondly, i guess it’s economically rational to react with domestic, social and economic policy, especially on high energy prices. but at the same time, instead of building a permanent support mechanism, we should speed up the introduction of renewables and energy efficiency. we must make sure that we reduce the red tape and any other measures that are slowing down the economy. more economic growth means also lower unemployment and smaller problems of the fiscal policy. last not least, we must redirect eu funds to deal with the current challenges and use the resources that we have effectively.
mr president, commission, council, i would like to begin this debate by congratulating the european commission on the new package it has presented this morning and, of course, on the work of the decision-making leadership to help ukraine and block putin's intentions. i think that this work must be recognised and we hope that the council will continue to maintain the unity that we have seen in recent months and that some deviations or some proposals will not find support and we will be able to minimise those chances of deviation within the council. the debate on the effects on the european union is a complex debate, because it certainly has social aspects, as has been said. we have to take in those millions of refugees who have come to europe. in addition, there are also economic consequences of not being easily handled, with high inflation and difficult growth forecasts. in any case, this spirit of consensus which i see in this parliament, given that the vast majority of the measures so far are being taken by the member states, contrasts with some congresses, with some national parliaments, such as that of my country, where the right wing does not seem to want to support the government in these difficult times. we need monetary policy not to respond in a rushed manner to this growth in inflation. the bulk of the price deviation is food and energy, unlike in the united states, for example. it would also be good to reconsider the role of the recovery and resilience mechanism, the possibility of expanding or generating new instruments similar to the mechanism to respond economically in a solidarity way, while the sanctions themselves are also taken jointly.
mr president, we have spent the past two years talking about how we emerge, how to emerge from the covid-19 crisis stronger. we have spent two months of war in ukraine doing the same. a crisis has this grim gift of providing ample supplies of one of the most elusive and valuable resource europe needs, the political will to embrace change and to do the things that need to be done. i applaud the continuation of the sanctions, but we are still far away from the parliament position. we still need ambitious tools and the instruments to move forward. in the pandemic we have created the rrf and other funds and measures that showed solidarity, that kept our businesses sometimes barely afloat and helped our citizens. now, in two months we have moved defence supplies of an unprecedented scale and opened our countries to many more millions of ukrainian refugees that we had seen during the 2015 refugee crisis. we do have right now a momentum of political will to reinforce our capacity to act for all europeans, ukrainians included, as they firmly belong in europe by culture, values, geography, and now by bravery and commitment. i think it is time indeed to use the rrf at its full potential, to use all the resources, to use all the lessons learned and the solutions for the member states, and this is part of the response. but at the same time, we should focus indeed, and i was really pleased to hear today that there is a discussion about the recovery plan from ukraine. and for that, we need indeed to use the lessons learned from the rrf that are indeed valuable. the world will never be the same again, and russia with putin in charge will never again be a partner for europe. so there is no more status quo return to, and we need to create a new normal one with reinforced financial tools that will ensure no european is left behind in the aftermath of putin’s war, and ukraine and moldova as well get the welcome they need from the eu, that we emerge once again stronger together.
mr president, commissioner, over 52 billion euros have left the european union between 1 january 2022 and 1 may this year. i think that figure says it all, because we take oil, gas and coal from russia and in exchange for these trade facilities, we support a country that no longer follows any rules. that is why i welcome the new sanctions announced today by president ursula von der leyen, but i think that is not enough. we need to do more to weaken russia, to convince putin to give up this pointless, pointless war. i think it's important to stop importing oil, but even more important is to find solutions to stop importing gas completely and to support states so that they can withstand any challenges in the future. moreover, over five million citizens of ukraine have left their homes and are today in the european union. i hope that at the next plenary, ursula von der leyen will announce that a fund for refugees has been created. there are five million citizens who are waiting for concrete support from the european union. member states have done all they can in this crisis situation, but from now on we have to act institutionally, support people, integrate them into our societies, until we are able to go there, to ukraine, to rebuild it, after this absurd war is over. they need their homes, they need a european perspective and only together can we build it, through concrete actions, implemented immediately.
in writing. russian aggression against ukraine is unacceptable. it is imperative that we help the suffering people of this country under attack. hungary is at the forefront of humanitarian aid, and it is constantly taking care of the refugees who come to us. but this does not mean that the european economy should be sacrificed on the altar of war. it is frightening to watch europe's self-defense reflexes gradually disappear. it's clear that putin is prepared for war, including a possible european oil and gas embargo. it seems that the us and the eu have not been able to close the ring around the aggressor. the fossil fuel embargo would hit us much harder than it did russia. moreover, such a sanction would force member states to cheat to survive, which would in effect mean the institutionalization of hypocrisy. is this really what we want in the european union? a 12-month full russian oil and gas embargo would cause a 3% gdp decline in the eu in 2023, according to the imf. it would further exacerbate the current disruption in supply chains, as commodity prices soared and inflationary pressures remained high. do we want to risk a european recession? the commission should also take into account the fact that the union's macro-financial assistance is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the financial system and the stability of the financial system.
in writing. the ukrainian-russian war requires urgent action by the eu institutions. among refugees, children, women and the elderly are the most affected. it is important for them to enjoy a fair, safe environment and procedures in the host countries. members of roma communities, often from the periphery of society, who are forced to flee, deserve particular attention, as they are deeply affected by various forms of discrimination due to their exposure to discrimination on the grounds of their national or ethnic origin. thus, attention is drawn to the fact that the different integration and compensation measures require a specific approach. education, housing, health and employment should be addressed in a coordinated manner, taking into account the specificities of the communities. it is important that host countries support innovative reception programmes that can create social security for individuals and facilitate their integration. inclusion and diversity, which are core values of our union, can no longer be empty phrases in the future. our programmes must be filled with opportunities and reforms that simultaneously and prosperously affect our member states, our institutions, our communities and the individual. the integration of roma into education and the economy must be a matter of common interest. at member state level, we must therefore focus on refugees and, in particular, on the integration of displaced minority groups into our education systems and labour markets. but this requires a concerted eu commitment and precise targets that are feasible, measurable and achievable, and as soon as possible!
in writing. – sanctions on russia have not yet reached their full impact, just like they are still not fully impacting eu member states. the challenge is to prepare for the turmoil ahead. by choosing to counter the ukraine invasion with economic sanctions, one could not expect to succeed in the short run, when the state against which sanctions are being enforced is prepared to bear a 20% decline in national income or more. meanwhile, european governments face a decline in their national income by at least 2%. they will seek to cushion the shocks, especially on the low income strata of their populations. in doing so, they should not allow free market hang—ups to blur their interventions. second—round effects of the war will entail higher energy costs, fiscal impacts, cyberattacks and disruption of supply chains as we head towards an 8% to 22% increase in food prices alone over the next two years. this will undermine social and financial stability in the eu. coordination between member states of national support plans will be of paramount importance. the eu can make a substantial difference with common purchases to obtain prices that are more advantageous from suppliers. the model being discussed in the case of gas and hydrogen could be extended to food.
in writing. it is good that the commission is now finally proposing to extend the russian sanctions to oil. the show's been on for too many weeks. the proposed transitional period of 6-7 months for the ban on oil imports is quite long. the decision should be taken quickly. i know that the problem is that not all member states want to accept energy sanctions for their own selfish reasons. it's really short-sighted. it is clear that the cessation of energy imports will hit us, but so will this war and much harder. we have to cut off russia's oil revenues. it is good that the commission is now finally proposing to separate sperbank, russia's second largest bank, from swift. however, this is not enough, and the same must be extended to gazprombank. it is true that those responsible for the war crimes in butcha and the siege of mariupol were added to the sanctions list and that the provision of consultancy services to russian companies was prohibited. three russian state channels are also banned from broadcasting in the eu. good, because we have to fight fake news and putin's propaganda. the commission has worked extensively on the sixth enlargement package. these sanctions must now be implemented quickly, because putin must be stopped. at the same time, we must help ukraine even more. it is estimated that it needs some eur 5 billion a month to cover its necessary expenditure, and of course, a substantial amount of material and military aid.
the socioeconomic impacts of the invasion of ukraine are becoming increasingly profound and cross-cutting, affecting not only the european union but the whole world, affecting the most vulnerable populations, territories, economies and societies and affecting the global system, its structures and its sustainability chains. the final outcome of the russian federation's aggression against ukraine's sovereignty and international law will depend to a large extent on the proper management of the impacts. where there is a need to resist and support people in concrete ways in the face of the effects of inflation, rising energy and commodity prices, the reception of refugees or defence against manipulated information, such support must combine resistance and transformation. the timing of this debate with resolution is a huge opportunity. the resolution should not be limited to emergency responses which, if necessary, do not provide the full answer to the challenge. the resolution adopted must also be a political programme for affirming the european project, redefined and strengthened to face the new threats and implementing a progressive agenda for transformation, to consolidate the european union in the context of the conflict and in the global framework. (the sitting was suspended at 10.48 a.m.)
c02020 (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c0202020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c02020/c02020) (com/c02020) (com/c0202020) (com/c0202020) (com/c0202020/c0202020) (com/c0202020/c0202020/c0202020/c0202020/c0202020/c0202020) (com/c0202020/c0202020/c0202020) (com/c0202020/c0202020/c02020/c0202020/c0202020/c0202020/c020202020/c0/c02020202020/c20202020/c20202020/c202020/c20202020/c20202020/c20202020/c2020/c20202020/c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c202c20/c the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. we have a total of 53 reports for this debate from eight rapporteurs, namely mr chastel, mr freund, mr garcía muñoz, mr zdechovský, mr christoforou, mr czarnecki, mr brudziński and mr omarjee. i would remind you that the system of free choice of seats in the chamber applies, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen. once the voting card has been inserted, it will be possible to make 'catch-the-eye' and 'blue card' requests via the voting device. i would also remind you that the speakers in the chamber will continue to be from the centre stage, with the exception of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure, the 'blue card' questions and the rules of procedure.
rapporteur. – madam vice-president, i thought that i’m supposed to speak here about the agencies’ discharge, but as i can see, other colleagues are also talking about discharges that were not their responsibility. so i think i will devote the latter half of my speech also to something else than agencies. but nevertheless, the agencies play a very crucial role, of course, in the european union and europe. 2020 was very difficult for them due to covid-19. however, the final budget and management results reflect very decent work by the agencies that showed great resilience and adaptability. moreover, the pandemic illustrated once more that agencies really play a very important role, from monitoring infections across member states, authorising vaccines and treatments, issuing guidances on adapting workplace and protecting workers, to issuing different recommendations and so on and so forth. from a budgetary control perspective, i am happy to say that we see the continuing positive trend of high implementation rates, prevention of conflict of interest, implementation of e-procurement, and improving transparency and internal control. this is horizontally, generally speaking. but a couple of words about one specific agency: frontex, the border and coast guard agency, which of course plays a crucial role in protection of our external borders, and we still think it should be further strengthened, not weakened. and obviously the agency’s mandate has grown rapidly in the last years, and it operates in challenging circumstances. but with greater role comes also greater need for effective management and bigger accountability. while saying that the agency still has our full support and the staff has our full support, it has to be said that during the last couple of years, the ambiguity and unclarity of how the management is done at frontex has grown and grown, and as we know we had an olaf investigation into frontex. i have to point out at this moment that we do not have enough information to make a well—informed decision on granting discharge for frontex, especially due to lack of official information. and this is exactly the olaf investigation. and this, by the way, is very, very unfortunate that as discharge authority, we are put in an unbearable situation. we have to make a decision without really knowing exactly what’s going on. but then, on the other hand, we cannot grant discharge today. we have to postpone if we don’t know enough. and we know already that there are a lot of things that need to be looked at. but these are management, administrative issues. i have to underline that. and now, i think i don’t have two minutes anymore, but listen this last half a minute. i think it’s very, very sad and unfortunate that the discharge procedure for the european court of auditors was highly politicised this year. and i have to say that if we keep going like this, then we will harm exactly what we should be protecting, and that is the credibility of this whole process. and if we want to help the institutions and different bodies in the union to do their job, this, like my dear colleague mr freund said, that the european court of auditors is the most important instrument in fighting populism. and i will finish by saying that if we want to help the european court of auditors in this job, then we should really refrain from being populist ourselves and put this in this light and in this perspective. i really needed to say this because it has been an historically politicised exercise, and that is not good for the discharge process.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. madam president, commissioner johannes hahn, dear president of the european court of auditors, dear member of the european court of auditors, dear colleagues, i consider it a great honour, but also a great responsibility, that i have been asked, together with my dear colleague, tomáš zdechovský, to be the rapporteur on the discharge for the bodies of the european union. i believe that this is a very important, serious, but also effective work. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i should like to remind you that the committee on budgetary control is fighting day and night for the same objective and the same purpose: to protect and preserve the prestige, credibility and dignity of the european union by safeguarding the principles of transparency, the principles of reliability, the principles of meritocracy, the principles relating to the protection of every euro of the european taxpayer. all these values are safeguarded and protected through the collective work done in the committee on budgetary control by all colleagues, but also through cooperation with both the commissioner responsible and the european court of auditors and all the audit authorities and services. we're all in this together. we're all in this together. we must preserve at all costs the money of the european taxpayers and the prestige and credibility of the european union in difficult times. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the european union agencies are, in effect, the executive arm of the european union; are the bodies that deliver the work, the expectations and the visions of european citizens; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the european union's budget, which will be presented to the council in the autumn. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the control of the use of the financial system by the member states of the european union is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. there we really need to send a strong message: that we must show zero tolerance to those who actually steal public money. these organisms can evolve, they can be upgraded. with the digital transformation, these organisations need to demonstrate that their efficiency must now go up, bureaucracy must be abolished the bureaucracy that plagues the european union, and these agencies, imposes enormous costs on the agencies and budgets of the european union. it is particularly important, mr commissioner - and i always say that it must be implemented from within, that is, by the institutions of the european union itself, and then we must demand that it be implemented by the member states - that gender equality is finally enforced at all levels of these european union bodies; that there is no infringement on these issues, and that by means of a regulation and a strong and non-negotiable framework, it is put forward as a matter of principle and in the next period of time that this important principle is violated, and therefore the treaties are violated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these agencies must be located in every corner of the european union, they must be located in every country of the european union. there are three or four countries which do not have an eu body in place. i think it's time we send the right message. the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is not only a political entity, but it is also a political entity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am convinced that with the right work, with the collective work of all of us and with the dear colleagues - whom, as i said, i thank once again for their support and help in getting rid of these bodies - we can achieve a great deal to improve both the institutions and the image of the european union, but also to give the citizens the faith that these bodies are in good hands and that those who really control them are doing their job with integrity.
i take this opportunity to ask all speakers to respect the time limits.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. mr president of the court! i'm supposed to be running seven joint ventures. it's a bit like shooting a bird in flight or shooting darts (there's competition in shooting). they are changing their location and names, as the shift2rail joint undertaking is now the european railway joint undertaking, the joint undertaking for the second innovative medicines initiative is now the joint undertaking for the health innovation initiative, the sesar joint undertaking is now the joint undertaking for air traffic management research in the single european sky, the ecsel joint undertaking is now the key digital technologies joint undertaking, and the hydrogen fuels and hydrogen technologies joint undertaking is now the clean water joint undertaking. i think these are the changes that better reflect what these joint ventures are doing. only one european joint undertaking has not changed its name: the iter and thermonuclear energy joint undertaking. and i also have a brand new joint undertaking to present to you: european large scale computing. all of this, of course, is for fiscal year 2020. the court of auditors, represented by your president, delivered unqualified and unbiased opinions on the annual accounts and the underlying transactions of these nine joint ventures. (the other two will be presented shortly by mr brudziński.) however, the court has pointed out shortcomings in the functioning of the iter joint undertaking. and i have already stressed that a new joint undertaking for european large-scale computing has been created and is being audited for the first time for the 2020 financial year. i would point out that for all joint ventures the court has delivered an unqualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying their annual accounts and on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying those accounts. however, in my reports i made a number of comments on various issues requiring some improvement both in the areas of budgetary and financial management, the internal control framework and monitoring in relation to payments under grant agreements or human resources policy. unfortunately, there are still shortcomings in the annual payment planning. in the case of the european large-scale computing joint undertaking, significantly fewer payments than planned were made under supercomputers and grant agreements, resulting in a low budget implementation rate for payments on operational activities of only around 23%. the ecsel joint undertaking has made available again unused payment appropriations of over eur 57 million under the operational budget for horizon 2020 actions, but has only managed to use 70% of this amount. the joint undertakings also experienced difficulties in implementing horizon 2020 activities. there is a risk that the level of administrative resources required to manage the funds in a timely manner will be insufficient, given the increasing number of projects implemented simultaneously from different programmes of the common financial framework. as regards the 2020 grant payments, the main reasons for the errors detected already at the end were the following: first, the incorrect method used to calculate the personnel costs incurred. second, failure to meet the maximum number of hours of work on the project. third, the declaration of costs not directly linked to the project. finally, the declaration of purchases from another beneficiary of the consortium as other direct costs. madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i propose we discharge all these joint ventures.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, madam minister, the discharge i have to give does not concern an agency but a policy, the european development fund. we are now in the 11th edf and thus in its 11th multiannual programming since it was established by the treaty of rome in 1957, and then by the famous cotonou agreements which provided a solid framework for cooperation with the countries of africa, the caribbean and the pacific and for development aid. the year 2020, for which we are considering this discharge, is the last year of this 11th edf and, from 2021, we will enter the 12th edf and no more financing agreements can be signed under the 11th edf. the 12th edf will also be integrated into the european multiannual financial framework for the first time and will therefore be subject to a number of european regulations which it has been exempt from until now. in 2020, the financial implementation of the edf covered financing decisions representing global commitments of eur 2 687 000 000, contracts representing individual commitments of eur 3 670 000 000 and payments representing eur 4 600 000 000. and all of this spending was affected by the covid crisis, and 2020 was, in fact, a record year for payments due to the increase in disbursements to projects that contribute to the fight against the covid crisis and this also led to the acceleration of absorption. our report mentions a number of complications induced by the covid outbreak. however, we are concerned about the considerable increase in errors highlighted by the court of auditors and the refusal of beneficiary organisations to grant the court full and unlimited access to documents and supporting documents. in the 2020 implementation, i would like to underline that the commission reacted in time and stopped funding a highly problematic project in eritrea, based on forced labour and slavery. and on the basis of the experiences in eritrea, i now call on the european commission to be more vigilant everywhere and to include clauses on working conditions for all the projects it funds, now for all the countries. and we must also be vigilant about all projects in the central african republic and european projects which risk indirectly financing the wagner militias, which, as we know, have considerable influence over the army in that country. in conclusion, i would also like to say that all european policies must be brought into line with the objectives of development policy. otherwise, the investments made through the edf are destroyed in their scope. and i also want to say that the commission must ensure that the interests of the outermost regions and of the overseas countries and territories which share the same geographical area with the acp countries are taken into account. in conclusion, i would like to say that the union's development policy pursues the objective of eradicating poverty. but we must also, today, assume without hypocrisy the dimension of co-development and shared interests between the development of the acp countries and the interests of the european union.
president of the council. madam president, mr european commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to present to you the council's recommendation on the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the 2020 budget. like parliament, the council attaches great importance to the annual discharge exercise, which ensures that european funds are used in accordance with the rules and principles of sound financial management. on 15 march, the council sent parliament its recommendation to give the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2020. the council also recommends that discharge be given to decentralised agencies, executive agencies and joint undertakings. this recommendation is the result of a thorough analysis of the european court of auditors' reports within the council. we seem to share the concerns of the committee on budgetary control, but i am sure we also share the desire that our recommendations be implemented without delay by all the actors concerned. i would first like to draw your attention to two important elements of the council recommendations. first, for the second year in a row, the court of auditors' opinion on expenditure is unfavourable. the council regrets this, of course, just as it regrets that the overall error rate remains above the significance threshold again this year. it regrets that the error rate for headings 1a and 2 also remains above the significance threshold. however, the council also stresses that, thanks to the efforts of the managing and supervising authorities, the commission services and the member states, improvements have been observed, in particular in subheading 1b, where the error rate is again decreasing, and in heading 2, where the error rate is equal to the significance threshold. secondly, as in the previous year, our recommendation also takes up the conclusions of the court's report on the performance of the expenditure programmes of the budget of the european union. the council considers that an evaluation of the results achieved is an important element in the assessment of the sound financial management of the european funds and therefore invites the court and the commission to continue the evaluation of the performance of the budget as a whole. the year 2020, marked by the covid-19 crisis, was a special year. the court's report reflects the difficulties encountered in the management and control of the budget of the european union. but this budget has also been the primary tool in the fight against the pandemic and its impacts. the year 2020 was also the last year of the previous multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, and the council looks forward to the court's next annual report on the new multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by thanking you for your thorough work on the landfill. i would also like to thank the commission, the court of auditors and all those involved in the implementation and management of european funds. in this discharge exercise, the institutions share a common objective: to reassure european citizens that the european budget is well managed and that it delivers visible results on the ground.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear president lehne, dear minister, dear discharge rapporteurs, honourable members of the european parliament, first, i would like to thank on behalf of the commission, the entire european parliament for this constructive discharge procedure. in particular, of course, i would like to thank the committee on budgetary control for the really valuable discussions during the discharge process. and i would also like to thank the discharge rapporteur, mr chastel, for preparing a balanced discharge report focused on key political priorities that are really shared by the commission. in 2020, the union budget played a decisive role in the union response to the pandemic. our funds were used to provide medical equipment, support research for treatments and vaccines, but also to save jobs and businesses. at the same time, we continued to deliver on our horizontal priorities and, first and foremost, on the green and digital transitions. 2020 was also the year of the adoption of the largest stimulus package ever financed in europe, next generation eu, and thanks to the strong support of this house and also, of course, the member states. in this context, allow me now to explain the commission’s action on the key political priorities outlined in the discharge report. firstly, on safeguarding the union budget, in particular in view of next generation eu. the commission has a strong control system in place for protecting the union budget. it’s based notably on robust governance arrangements and multiannual control cycles. our control strategies are tailored and risk assessments are targeted. risks are monitored continuously and mitigating measures are taken. our control system ensured the protection of the union budget also in the challenging environment brought about by the pandemic.further on, we have designed, together with the member states, a robust control system for the disbursements under next generation eu, and in particular the recovery and resilience facility. we have also strengthened the bodies in charge of safeguarding the budget, amongst others, starting with the european public prosecutor’s office and the european anti—fraud office. secondly, on rule of law conditionality. with the conditionality regulation, the union has added one layer to the protection of taxpayers’ money. based on the conditionality regulation, the commission has been screening since the beginning of 2021 for possible breaches of the rule of law that could affect the union budget. in this context, the commission requested in november last year information to poland and hungary on issues relevant to the application of this regulation. in april 2022, recently, the commission sent a written notification to hungary. let me recall that the conditionality regulation is an instrument designed to protect the union budget against breaches of the principles of the rule of law. at the same time, it protects beneficiaries and final recipients of union funds in case measures are imposed on a member state. other instruments are designed to uphold and protect the values on which the union is founded, without having regard to the protection of the financial interests of the union. thirdly, on digital tools for reporting, monitoring and audit. the commission has over time developed and made available to member states an it tool – it was already mentioned by some speakers – arachne, to identify projects and beneficiaries that might be susceptible to risks of irregularities, fraud and conflicts of interest. although the use of this tool is currently voluntary, it’s already largely used in the field of cohesion and is being introduced for agricultural spending. we are also pleased to note that most member states are planning to use it under the recovery and resilience facility. we continue to encourage member states who are not yet using the tool to do this in the future, and we will continue to provide training and to offer support and technical assistance. moreover, with the targeted amendment of the financial regulation, we will propose to further enhancing the protection of the union budget and to digitalise our controls and audits and improve the quality and interoperability of data on recipients of eu funding. we will propose to make the use of the integrated it systems for data mining and risks, making arachne compulsory. and i know this gets the support of this house and i hope we can finally find a positive agreement because i think we have been working on this already for a couple of years. fourthly, on the performance of the budget. the commission attaches high importance to maximise the effectiveness of eu spending. much progress has been made in this respect for the current mff. not only have we put in place better indicators to measure performance, but we have also better ways to inform european citizens about our results, thanks to dedicated websites. furthermore, the disbursements under the recovery and resilience facility are made based on performance once the relevant member state satisfactorily fulfils the related milestones and targets. more is under development, for example methodologies to better evaluate the contribution of the various eu spending programmes to enhancing both gender equality and biodiversity. as regards gender equality, first results will be published already this year, well ahead of the timeline foreseen in the interinstitutional agreement. on biodiversity, we will monitor compliance with our spending commitments in this area for the 2024, 2026 and 2027 budgets. we also have begun working on a pilot basis on methodologies to gauge the overall impact of our spending on climate and digital transition. finally, a few words on simplification. the commission will continue its efforts on simplifying financial rules for union funds recipients, for example, through the use of electronic invoicing and by aligning financial rules with the procurement directives as this remains the best way to prevent errors. this will, of course, only happen with the support of this house and of the member states. dear colleagues, as you can see, the european commission is committed to ensure that the union budget is spent in line with the rules and that it delivers maximum value for citizens. we are also committed to following up on the recommendations outlined in the discharge report. let me close with the wish to continue the good collaboration we have built over the years between this house, the member states, court of auditors and the commission. it’s only through strong collaboration that we will achieve our shared goals. there is really always work in progress, but together we can indeed achieve our goals we have de facto decided together. so thank you for your attention and your continuing support.
president of the court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. few of us could have foreseen, when we discussed the court of auditors' 2020 annual report in this chamber last november, that we would meet again to complete the cycle amid a brutal war of aggression by russia on european soil. these dramatic developments are a challenge for all of us and should strengthen our resolve to play our part in defending democratic european values and promoting a european way of life which includes fundamental freedoms and rights. the court of auditors is also trying to make a contribution here. i just want to point out that we have now decided - and they are already here - to take five staff members from the ukrainian court of auditors. now , for the relief of the world , parliament is already well acquainted with the contents of our annual report, which has been prepared with great care and skill by my colleague, mr tony murphy, who is sitting next to me. the accounts are reliable, the revenue is free from material errors, while the expenditure has unfortunately to receive a negative audit opinion again this year. i would like to deal with just a few important points today and leave as much time as possible for debate. first, the new implementation model introduced by the building and resilience fund, i.e. payments made towards achieving milestones and targets, will become significantly more important for all of us in the future. we are already seeing it being replicated in other policy areas. for us as auditors, this implementation model has significant implications, in particular for our concept of legal and orderly payment. and i'm sure it will be of some importance to you as the discharge authority. yesterday i had the honour of welcoming the heads of all the supreme audit bodies of the european union to our headquarters in luxembourg, to the so-called contact committee. and i can tell you that the focus of the discussions today will be that the coordination of activities to examine ngos at national and european level has already begun and is being intensified. for the next annual report, to be published in 2022, a single payment from spain under the building and resilience facility will be part of the court's audit population. this is the first year that the building and resilience facility is included in our reliability statement and we will report on it in a separate chapter of the annual report. however, this will undoubtedly increase considerably in the coming years. so i want to thank you again for supporting our call for additional audit resources last december. i hope we can count on your support this year too. we will use these units not only for transaction audits but also for special reports highlighting various aspects of the profitability of ngos, rrf. secondly, i would like to talk about the use of resources, the famous absorption. despite various measures to increase it, the drawdown of the eu structural and investment funds has not increased substantially and the balance in cash has therefore continued to increase. there are also major differences between member states. finland, for example, has used up 79% of its appropriations, while the three member states with the lowest absorption rates have used up only around 45% of the committed appropriations. but i want to make it clear that this was the case, at least in part, before the pandemic. how will the use of resources develop now that the recovery and resilience fund is available, and may even compete with it, in addition to the usual multiannual financial framework? thirdly, i thank the cont committee and in particular mr chastel as rapporteur for giving the commission the opportunity to discuss a number of difficult questions. it shows the close partnership between the court of auditors and parliament that together we are stronger in providing for democratic financial accountability. i also believe that we can achieve more together, for example, by increasing the reliability of some controls at national level. in conclusion, i would like to assure you that the court of auditors attaches the greatest importance to two subjects which have been the subject of intense attention in this house, namely the preservation of the rule of law and the fight against fraud to the detriment of the european budget. in both cases we have worked for several years to identify the aspects we should examine. in other words, these two issues can be considered as the overriding priorities of our strategy. finally, a personal note for the court of auditors: the court of auditors attaches the utmost importance to the discharge procedure. we want to contribute to a discharge based on facts, but also to ensure that all the institutions are treated equally. mr. friend, when you say that the eu pays for housing or rent subsidies, that is simply and painfully untrue. it's not true. i would suggest that you simply take another look at the opinion of the legal service of this house which has been tabled here, where it is clearly and unambiguously stated. there is no eu funding for housing, especially for members of the institutions, including the court of auditors. the constant repetition of this statement does not make it any more true. and on mrs muñoz: the court of auditors has provided the cont committee with a great deal of information on numerous occasions during this cycle, including much information that goes far beyond the scope of the current discharge procedure. i had written to you after the budgetary control committee had voted on this report, asking what other questions were still open. you answered me, and you answered the court of auditors, saying that there were still questions from the shadow rapporteurs, but you did not say which ones. i'm sorry, if we don't know what questions are open, we can't answer them, we can't help. if our secretary-general offers to make appointments to explain and clarify any questions that may still be open, then it is not possible that these appointments will not take place. this is simply not a sensible way of working together on such sensitive issues. it's the same with the missions. it says in the report, in full, that missions are being criticized, but it doesn't say which missions. and since you don't know which missions are being criticized, you can't explain it. so my request is: name the missions in 2020 where there are still any problems, where we still have to explain things! i don't know her. i would like to know which ones. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i hope that it will be adopted. political parties take part in the formation of the political will of the people. it is therefore self-evident that when members of the institutions are invited by parties to speak, they naturally do so. it is never criticised, and it has never been criticised, that for many years i have accepted invitations from the s&d group, together with other colleagues, and of course have also had intensive contacts with members from other groups and parties. so, to make a long story short, the european court of auditors has carried out a number of internal reforms. our regulations were already stricter than most comparable institutions. i would like to ask for your understanding and to point out that there are limits to all this, and that is wherever our independence, which is guaranteed by the treaties and by international agreements, is called into question. as this is probably my last plenary debate as president of the court of auditors, i would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for their cooperation and to take this opportunity once again to invite the cont committee on behalf of the court of auditors to its long overdue annual visit to luxembourg as soon as possible. thank you for your attention.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for the rest of us, a minute, a hint: if there is an increase in the ead's work capacity, then this must also be accompanied by an increase in staff, and if possible, gender equality and geographical distribution must also be ensured at the same time. we expressly welcome the court of auditors' special report on disinformation and its impact on the union and hope that the recommendations made in this context will indeed be fully implemented. we have to say to the commission: we have given this much money to third countries outside the union in the context of the covid pandemic - over 40 billion. and the visibility and communication of that support, that can actually be improved. and also as rapporteur for ukraine it is right here that the focus of the court's special report on combating large-scale corruption in ukraine, which had referred above all to the years 2016 to 2019, is appropriate. since then, things have moved in the right direction, even before the war. i think that in the course of the reconstruction of the country we will find the strength to tackle this evil, which has existed there until now, and to ensure that this country can function as a normal european state in the future.
draft opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in my work on the employment and social affairs committee, i have focused on dismissals by agencies in the field of the committee's work. these are eu osha, eurofound, cedefop and the etf. the court of auditors also notes that all transactions in 2020 were legal and the financial situation of the agencies was fairly presented. the european institutions must carry out their work in a professional, efficient and transparent manner. they spend budget money on their business and are therefore accountable to all europeans and to all europeans. it is commendable that the agencies reduce costs by joining the common network. this avoids duplication of tasks and optimises their business. the agencies also responded to all previous alerts and successfully resolved them. finally, i would like to highlight the complaints of the staff of the agencies, which indicate a lack of communication. the covid crisis and the new, more digitalised way of working may have contributed to this. however, this does not excuse the fact that some staff have turned to acquaintances in the european parliament to share their problems. this will need to be changed and appropriate communication between management and employees will need to be established.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – madam president, commissioners, president of the european court of auditors, dear colleagues, our nature as members of european parliament is to be critical and reactive, to be very tough against all attacks towards the european budget and towards the interests of european taxpayers. we could not go against the moral compass of this house or against the rules of our union. so this week we are deciding whether to grant discharge to the european court of auditors or not. we have been witnessing an attack against an institution – an attack against the president of this institution – and we should not enlarge this attack to the whole interest in the good relationship that this parliament has with the european court of auditors. we’ve been provided with information on all the questions we’ve been asking, and never in the history of the european court of auditors have we seen a problem with its nature or work. we’ve been provided with reports on a regular basis. two thirds of the workflow of committee on budgetary control (cont) comes from the european court of auditors. we don’t see a problem with the quality of the work provided to us, with the quality of the report, or with the moral compass and capabilities of the professionals who are working there. i believe we should grant discharge to this institution.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. madam president, commissioners, mr president of the court of auditors, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must recognise the importance of the transport sector and of investment in this sector, which is going through a difficult period, that of the pandemic, and the transition to a green and digital economy. without transport, there is no economy. moreover, transport affects every citizen on a daily basis as a worker, student, tourist and consumer. without transportation, there is no high quality of life. finally, transport plays a crucial role in bridging the gap between remote areas and europe's main economic and industrial centres. without transport, there is no internal market. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. the european institutions therefore need to pay more attention to transport agencies and transport joint undertakings, so i call for an increase in the budget for all relevant agencies.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 2020 was marked by the covid-19 pandemic, which disrupted the work of the court of justice of the union. the court nevertheless managed to decide 1,540 cases against 1,739 in 2019, which is meritorious. in particular, it has innovated by organising remote pleadings by videoconference with simultaneous interpretation. it also used 99% of its appropriations, which is all the more satisfactory as the appropriations used were mainly for expenditure on staff and infrastructure, particularly information technology. finally, the average length of proceedings before the court of justice and the general court has fallen to less than 15 and a half months, the fastest ever. for all these reasons, i am in favour, as is the committee on legal affairs, of the discharge for the implementation of the court's 2020 budget. however, i would point out that the court of auditors, whose president i congratulate, issued a reserved report on 21 december 2020 on the effectiveness of doubling the number of judges of the general court. it will therefore be appropriate to study this subject in more depth in the future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, 2002 was not an easy year for any of the justice and home affairs agencies, nor for the court of justice of the eu, as they all had to adapt to the new reality of the covid-19 pandemic. i would like to congratulate the court of justice in particular for being once again among the top performers in terms of efficiency, budgetary performance, staff policy, cooperation initiatives, trainings and communication visibility and green transition. the court has also stepped up its efforts in digitalisation, ensuring fair and easy access to justice for everyone. this was essential in times of covid. the justice and home affairs agencies have made commendable efforts and collaborated well, offering support to national authorities, issuing joint publications and recommendations. now, a few words on frontex. this is the largest and one of the most important eu agencies with a mandate of keeping our borders safe. its role is crucial, in this war as well, and its support is needed. this is exactly why the eu needs a strong and functional frontex, not a controversial or weak one. we cannot afford doubt on procedures, mismanagement or breaking rules, nor should eu citizens pay for that. we need an efficient structure, with clear tasks and responsibilities, working together with member states. mr leggeri’s resignation does not address all of these concerns. frontex has a clear set of conditions, which must be met in order for the agency to operate according to its mandate and relevant eu legislation. i expect the current interim and future management to make an absolute priority of ensuring full compliance with eu legislation and our requirements, from fundamental rights monitoring to compliance with the ecj ruling concerning its operations in hungary. a robust and trustworthy frontex must protect the eu border while abiding by the highest standards in terms of respect for fundamental rights. i am looking forward to our future cooperation in achieving all of these goals.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. madam president, commissioner, member of the european parliament, you have mentioned that you are dissatisfied with the time allocated. exactly what are you proposing? because it seems to me, too, that this is a very important subject that you've touched upon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. competition law is europe's most powerful weapon for enforcing our rules of the game in markets. economic power must not be in the hands of fewer people, but markets must be democratized so that everyone can participate. this means more than promoting consumer welfare. citizens expect markets to respect their privacy, protect their data, fight climate change and ensure sustainability. these findings mean that consumer welfare has been the sole objective of competition policy and that the price of a product is the dominant factor in anti-competitive behaviour. data doesn't have a price tag on it. the digital markets act is going in the right direction here. competition law should now be inspired by it and recognise data protection and climate protection as competition problems. i also call for a reform of the merger law, which gives the authorities the possibility of breaking up companies that harm competition. let us make our exemplary competition law future-proof so that it democratizes markets and protects citizens!
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this very dynamic debate. a lot has been said and at great pace. i think everyone has been listening here. they have almost lost their breath because of the richness here. i just want to make a few comments. it was said quite early in the debate that europe should not miss the innovation train, that we should actually be in the first carriage. i think that is one of the many reasons for supporting a competitive market and for supporting competition in the market, because we know from experience and from what we see that competition is one of the most important drivers. if there is no risk that someone will come up with something better, why bother to innovate? why not just continue doing what you have been doing and try to make the most of it? we see that, unfortunately, in some mergers, for instance, there is a risk that someone is buying the pipeline of a competing pharmaceutical product to continue the blockbuster and not enabling the new product to get to market. that, of course, is really important. this is why, also in our merger enforcement, innovation plays a role because it’s a long time ago, if ever, that competition law enforcement was just about prices. yes, it’s about prices, and for many families these days of course prices are important, but it is also about quality, about choice and about innovation because competition in innovation is one of the main drivers. if you look at the legislative proposals that are supporting what we do, you also see this because the dma will enable competition and will enable businesses to get to market based on their own ideas, their work ethic, and the funding that they have available. they will not have to depend on the gatekeeper. if you look at the ai proposal, the point of that is to create trust in technology and, by creating trust, open markets; for instance, that these fantastic public sectors that we have in europe, they are open for the use of artificial intelligence and because of that, there is a drive to innovate in the use of artificial intelligence for a better purpose within the union. several speakers tonight have talked passionately about small and medium—sized businesses for very good reasons because this is not just for festive speeches, it is in everyday life that small and medium—sized businesses provide jobs, growth and innovation. if you look at everything we do, i do hope that you see that we have implemented the slogan of thinking small first, because every business starts small and a lot of businesses remain in the category of being small and medium sized. they need a fair chance in a single market. here we need to make sure that they are not being squeezed out, dominated or held back by bigger companies. when you look at what we can do in extraordinary times – actually during covid, we did not suspend state-aid rules because we wanted to make sure that, while necessary aid was given to companies which were asked to close their doors and customers were asked to stay at home, so that the two couldn’t meet and, because of that, had to hibernate, that really necessary support was given in a way that would still enable the single market to function and that would limit the unlevelling of the playing field. this is why we do not suspend state-aid rules, but we make them more flexible. we enable more support to be given, but always in a way that is proportionate and necessary. here, if you look at what we have done in the temporary framework for the covid pandemic, you will see that we changed it six times. we changed it because we found that the situation on the ground was changing. new needs were appearing, and of course we will do the same when we follow the use of the temporary crisis framework that we have put in place to answer the war that we have in europe and the energy crisis that has come with it. we will look at what is happening, and we will do one more thing. we will give guidance to companies if they need to cooperate in order to better help out in the supply chains or in a situation that may occur because of the sanctions. but, at the same time, we have sent a very clear signal that we will be vigilant and look to see if anyone is trying to take advantage of the situation because we don’t want anyone, in the shadow of war, where people are being killed, to try to make a profit that is not due. competition law enforcement and regulation have also been touched upon by many, and i will be the first to say that competition law enforcement alone cannot solve every competition problem. but we cannot do without it and this is why competition law enforcement and regulation must go hand in hand. we have just had a judgment from the european court on bpost, which exactly establishes that the two can, and should, exist together. that’s a great encouragement for what we have ahead of us. on the question of connectivity, i think this is really important because this is one union and it should not be the case that someone feels forgotten. this is, of course, why one can establish a public service obligation that can be on airline connectivity, that can be on ferry connectivity, that can be on any connectivity needed in order to make sure that, for instance, out of season, citizens who live on an island that may not have perfect connectivity can feel that they are part of this europe that we all rely on. last, but not least, i think it’s really important to make sure that competition rules are fit for purpose. we have had this big project of making sure that we are fit for the digital world, we’ve had this big project to make sure that we are fit for the green transition and for the green world that we have ahead of us, but we are also recognising that competition law enforcement, no matter how effective, cannot solve everything. europe and citizens still rely on this house to set the rules of the game when it comes to social, when it comes to environment, when it comes to how we deal with things, and within that democratically legitimate framework, then to go compete in a single market that we will do our best to preserve every day. thank you very much for this debate. it has indeed been encouraging to be part of it.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. first of all, i would like to thank you for the fact that you manage to conduct the discussions we have with each other in a very relevant and very constructive way. this is very important and makes these debates very valuable, because we always feel that the arguments put forward are also presented and implemented with the greatest possible effort. and that, of course, makes working on such issues all the more valuable. i would like to conclude by saying that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i might like to start with eva kaili, who pointed out that we are still seeing significant distortions in some digital markets. this is why the annual report on competition policy again refers to advertising markets, which we have already mentioned in articles 5 and 6 of the digital markets act. the question will be which measure is the quickest in the end. the commission has already initiated a procedure to that effect. the second point raised by andrea caroppo and marc angel is the question of energy prices. we have spoken very clearly about this with commissioner breton in the committee on the internal market and have called for an integrated internal energy market. it is not yet in the report, but i believe that this would be a decisive step towards harmonising energy prices in europe in the long term and towards the resilience that mrs pereira mentioned. it will take some pressure, but an integrated internal energy market would greatly benefit europe and its citizens. claude gruffat pointed out that in tax law, although we had the special committee, we are still far from where we wanted to be. but unfortunately this will depend on how the member states intend to pursue this process, because the member states remain responsible for tax policy. and yet it was a brilliant idea of the commission, and of you too, madam vice-president, to define the use of state aid law as unlawful state aid, which in the end leads to favourable taxes. and as mrs søgaard has also mentioned, we must of course ensure that state aid is only granted within a reasonable framework. and, madam president, if i may add a comment, incredibly high levels of state aid have been requested in the corona crisis. only a small part has been paid out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the president-in-office, the vice-president and all the other members for their efforts.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 5 may 2022.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
the meeting is closed and will resume tomorrow, thursday 5 may, at 9.00 a.m. with the debate on the commission statement on the state of cooperation between the eu and the republic of moldova. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website. i wish you a pleasant evening and a good night.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the current state of eu-moldova cooperation (2022/2651 ((rsp)). i remind you that the free choice of seats applies with the exception of the first two rows allocated to the team leaders. you can request the floor by catch-the-eye and by blue card through your voting terminal, after you have inserted your voting card. i would also remind you that the speeches in the hemisphere will continue to be made from the main stage, except for catch-the-eye, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for adding this important topic to the plenary agenda today. this is an ample opportunity to discuss the current situation in moldova and to take stock of our cooperation with moldova. since the beginning of russia’s aggression against ukraine on 24 february, we are witnessing extreme human suffering with many lives lost and millions fleeing ukraine. i want to praise the solidarity shown by the moldovan government and the people of moldova, who have welcomed those fleeing and opened their homes, and they are helping as we speak. after the covid—19 pandemic and the gas crisis, which is far from being resolved, this refugee crisis is another major challenge for moldova. the european union stood by moldova through the covid—19 pandemic, the european union stood by moldova when the gas crisis hit last autumn, and the european union will continue to stand by moldova as it supports the refugees from this unprovoked war. i also take this debate as an occasion to thank this house for your continued support for our ongoing work with moldova. the eu stands in full solidarity with moldova in these difficult times. let me focus on some of the actions on the ground that we are taking together with our partners in moldova. first, we have mobilised eur 30 million in humanitarian aid to meet the needs of the refugees, in particular, to finance cash transfers. the eu border assistance mission to moldova and ukraine (eubam) immediately reoriented its actions towards assisting the managing of the inflow of refugees to moldova. eubam actions have been reinforced by eur 15 million and the scope has been expanded to allow them to provide necessary equipment for border police and conduct the training of newly recruited staff by the moldovan authorities. a new eur 15 million regional project is being put in place to support migration management and to help people to reach safety and security, whether that is in moldova or beyond. the european border and coast guard agency, frontex, is stepping up its operations in moldova and will deploy in total up to 80 officers and staff to work hand in hand with the moldovan border guards to help them manage the situation at the border. on 5 april, we announced the further financial assistance of eur 53 million budget support to help fund moldova’s efforts to address the immediate challenges. i also want to express our concern about the reported incidents in the transnistria region. we are monitoring the situation closely. in this context, we are stepping up our support to strengthen moldova’s resilience, notably by working on cybersecurity, hybrid threats, fighting disinformation, and providing moldova’s armed forces with medical, logistics and communication equipment. i want to reiterate the eu’s unwavering support for moldova’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. the eu remains fully committed to facilitating a comprehensive, peaceful and sustainable settlement of the transnistrian conflict. we continue to work with our moldovan partners to secure long—term recovery, resilience and reforms. in this context, we welcome that the co—legislators have approved a eur 150 million macro—financial assistance programme for moldova. the commission will now make the first disbursement very early in the summer. moreover, we are providing an assistance programme for 2021, worth eur 52 million, which has recently been adopted. this will support smes and the economy, important reforms in the energy sector, including energy efficiency, as well as justice reforms and capacity building. we will follow quickly with the 2022 annual programme in the region of eur 65 million. we are also exploring options and looking at how best to help moldova in facing the continued fallout of the gas crisis and improving socioeconomic resilience. and, of course, we keep rolling out investments under the economic recovery plan, worth eur 600 million, and the eastern partnership economic and investment plan. under the latter, we expect to mobilise around eur 3.4 billion of public and private investments for the five flagships focusing on smes, trade facilitation, energy efficiency, connectivity and human capital development. finally, let me say some words on moldova’s application for eu membership. following the request by the council, the commission is working on the opinion on this application now. normally, this is a very complex and lengthy process but, because of the current situation, we are working in an accelerated manner. we are impressed that we have already received the answers to the first part of the questionnaire from the moldovan authorities. once the commission has adopted its opinion, further decisions on moldova’s european path will be up to the council to decide. we do not have a precise timing yet when the commission will adopt the opinion, but we are preparing ourselves in such a way that this could happen ahead of the european council of 24—25 june this year.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, we have all seen how, since the beginning of the invasion of russia into ukraine, the republic of moldova has helped. it has helped ukrainian people in need. it has provided humanitarian aid in ukraine and it has helped provide stability and security at the external borders of the european union. the republic of moldova is the european country that has received the biggest number of ukrainian refugees in comparison to its population – bigger than any member state of the european union – and ukrainian people in need were received with open arms by the people of moldova and also by moldovan authorities. this has provided safety, stability and security at the borders of the european union. more than this, on 3 march, the republic of moldova submitted its request to become a member state of the european union. because reforms are happening in moldova, because moldovans have acted in a european spirit since the beginning of the war, and because the republic of moldova intends to become an eu member state, we have decided to hold this debate today and to adopt a resolution to provide the following messages. firstly, we call on the eu institutions to grant the republic of moldova the status of a candidate country to the european union. if the republic of moldova intends to join, our answer has to be ‘yes, you are welcome to join’. we have to work and proceed to all necessary steps. secondly, the institutional and political accession of the republic of moldova to the eu might take some time. there are things to be done in the republic of moldova and at european level, but even before we manage to finish that process, we have to provide concrete, tangible benefits to the citizens of the republic of moldova. this is why we call on the further integration of the republic of moldova into the eu single market. that means more development for the republic of moldova, more financial support from our side, increasing and lifting, where possible, the quotas in the short term for the export of moldovan products to the european union. and we would like to see a permanent support group for the republic of moldova established at the level of the european commission. there will be more things to be done between moldova and the european union. we need to provide the necessary technical assistance to them. in the end, dear colleagues, thank you very much for the wide support of all political groups. we will adopt this resolution with a large majority, knowing that by helping the republic of moldova, we are helping the whole european union.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of moldova, through its citizens and through what it represents politically, has made its european option very clear, and the courage to remain loyal to the commitments and values it has assumed, in a geopolitical situation that directly threatens national security, is admirable and cannot leave us without a response. the resolution we are voting on today is a recognition of this huge effort that the republic of moldova and its citizens are making. yes, the handling of the largest number of refugees per capita of all countries bordering ukraine deserves our recognition and, more than that, deserves our direct and immediate support. and yes, the economic losses and the loss of access to external markets and transport routes are also mentioned in our resolution, because they too deserve a concrete financial response from the union. and yes, the almost total energy dependence on russia puts a huge pressure not only on the economy of the republic of moldova, but also on the security and political stability of the country, and we cannot leave it out of the energy sustainability solutions that we are thinking about and will be implementing at the european level. but the most important political message that i think we have to give to the citizens of the republic of moldova is that they are citizens of a united europe and that we here in the european parliament recognize the prospect of becoming citizens of the european union. the resolution we are voting on today calls for the republic of moldova to be granted candidate status and i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we are all prepared to deliver this political message unequivocally. those who choose democracy, those who choose the rule of law have a vocation to join us. we are at a historic moment that will have historic consequences. let's take bold political vision and bold decisions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i salute the moldovan authorities and people for warmly welcoming ukrainians fleeing war. for years, i have supported the ukrainian drive to try to achieve a european future, a really european future, to obtain accession to the eu. also, i support the sovereign, independent statehood of this country and welcome pro-european changes in the political scene. allow me to deliver a difficult truth to us and to moldova. in my opinion, to achieve this goal it has to be proper action now and during this important time. in order to fundamentally change moldova, we have to help; collectively, the west has to help moldova in cutting ties with the russian federation, in particular in hydrocarbons, but in other areas – financial – as well. so i think that joining the sanction is a major opportunity to this country, of course, with our fundamental help.
mr president, mr commissioner, given the highly worrying security situation after the russian aggression on ukraine, it’s very much timely to discuss the state of cooperation between the european union and moldova. security incidents in the transnistria region and mandatory military mobilisations clearly show how fragile the security situation in this area is. it’s worth praising the reaction of moldovan leaders which properly contributed to the de—escalation of the already challenging situation. russia has an abiding interest in destabilising moldova and the kremlin has now chosen the means of external interference in moldova through propaganda, military presence, energy blackmail and direct interference in political processes. it is important today to oppose these actions and see how we can best support moldova. following the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement with moldova in 2016, the european union has continued to support moldova, and we recognise the results already achieved. when it comes to the application for eu membership, we welcome it and call for compliance with the established procedure. we also call on the commission to assess moldova’s readiness and application for eu membership and ensure that its opinion is delivered swiftly to the council. at the same time, political actors in moldova should contribute to meeting the european aspirations of the people of moldova, seeking to establish consensus on the most essential and urgent structural reforms. finally, i would like to emphasise the exemplary solidarity of moldova and the moldovan people towards the refugees from ukraine. moldova has shown its support for ukraine and its commitment to european values. we now need to increase our support for moldova in this challenging situation. the eu stands by ukraine. the eu should also stand by moldova.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of moldova deserves our trust, it deserves the european perspective and the status of candidate country, not because it is an important political moment to be exploited, but because it has shown us in this crisis, and beyond, that it deserves this trust. today's europe is the result of people's vision of a future of peace, prosperity and democracy. we cannot now, in the midst of the war of imperialism against democracy, ignore this vision. the europe of the future is not a space that we populate with rules, but it is every country and every person earned in society and in governments that fights for these rules and for our values, that owns them, that defends them. moldova is doing this. a country the size of a german land with a pro-european heart as big as the heart of europe must be part of our construction. economies grow and develop in a few years, but it took decades for nations to aspire to a european identity. the republic of moldova has that aspiration today. money, rules accepted and respected, accession chapters are the tools we must give. the goal is to bring her home, here, to the european family, even if it's not easy, even if it's not tomorrow. open the doors to those who think, feel, act pro-european. that is the vision for europe.
mr president, what a week it was right after the invasion of ukraine by russia. on the tuesday, ukraine applied for eu membership. on the wednesday, georgia applied for eu membership. and on the thursday, moldova applied for eu membership. all our three association partners. and we must be very firm in our support for the european way of moldova. i very much believe that they are doing everything they can in this fragile situation to be able to finally get candidate status for membership. we have to help moldova to get rid of this near-total dependency on russian energy. we have to help them to balance the ownership of media, help them to get rid of disinformation, which is really damaging their european way. and of course, transnistria is a real danger now. we see that the first of the eastern partner frozen conflicts is a real threat to moldova’s situation in this attack and this is a crucial moment when moldova really needs all our support.
mr president, commissioner, i understand that yesterday at the meeting between mr michel and the president of moldova, maya sandu, military aid was also promised to moldova. this, of course, must happen and it must happen as soon as possible, so that we do not again witness acts of post-facto and of seeking excuses, and so that this parliament and this chamber do not again become a place of worship, lamentation and reading of sorrowful condolences. what the european union and the european parliament must do, of course, is to give as much attention as possible and as quickly as possible to how moldova can be supported both humanitarianally, with the necessary resources, and by giving it a path to the european union. the colleagues are right to say that the state has made an effort. the reason for this is not only the current situation, but also the state of preparedness of the country itself. but something else needs to be done, and quickly. there must be centralised organised humanitarian aid to enable the moldovan state to cope with the influx of thousands of women and children from ukraine who need to be helped.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, but mainly, dear citizens of the republic of moldova, we are here for you. parliament is here. the commission is here. the member states, romania and all social democratic groups are here to help the republic of moldova in a concrete, practical and pragmatic way in any situation. suntem aici pentru voi. 600 de milioane de euro pentru planul de redresare economică, zeci de milioane de euro pentru asistență umanitară, securizarea frontierelor, chestiunea refugiaților și mai ales pentru protejarea populației în contextul creșterii prețurilor la energie. sume consistente promise pentru a ajuta republica moldova în contextul efectelor generate de război. un sprijin fără precedent și nu ne oprim aici. vorbim de investiții de eliminare a dependenței republicii moldova de federația rusă. vorbim de întărirea instituțiilor democratice. nu pentru noi, ci pentru voi, cetățenii din republica moldova. meritați tot sprijinul și respectul nostru. de aceea, le solicit încă o dată colegilor mei ca împreună să sprijinim aderarea rapidă a republicii moldova la uniunea europeană.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the character of people, but also of nations, is best seen in times of crisis. in the last few tragic weeks, we have had the opportunity to see not only the determination with which ukrainians defend their country, but also the exemplary behaviour of their neighbours. moldova is a small country in terms of territory, but with citizens with big hearts, which proved this because the moldovans' reaction to the tragedy of their neighbors was exemplary, it was solidary and unconditional. both the state and the citizens of the republic of moldova helped the ukrainian refugees quickly and effectively, like true european citizens, moldovan citizens acted like any citizen of a member state, although the republic of moldova is still suffering from russian aggression. i have been to several border points of the republic of moldova with ukraine and i was impressed by the professionalism and empathy with which moldova helps its neighbours, welcoming and hosting them even though they are also going through difficult economic situations. by its behaviour and actions, moldova has already earned its place in the european union, and our decision can only have one answer: da. we just have to find ways to make this possible, but we have all the arguments on the table. the eu has a long history of supporting the democratic process in moldova, and the eu has a long history of supporting the democratic process in moldova.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. there's a saying in my country, poland, "you're only wise after the damage has been done". in the case of ukraine, the european union has not been wise to the damage. she was stupid. in the case of many european politicians, it was simply corrupted by dirty russian money. this is the only explanation for the actions of many european union countries, which in recent years have become increasingly dependent on russian oil and gas supplies, rather than becoming independent. this is the only way to explain the actions of many european countries, which, after imposing an arms embargo on russia in 2014, circumvented the embargo, while refusing to supply weapons to ukraine. why am i talking about ukraine in the middle of the moldova debate? because moldova could be the next target for this maniac putin. and i hope that in the case of moldova, the european union will be wise before it does harm. i thank the commissioner for his efforts in bringing humanitarian aid to the moldovans, but we need more. we need a special fund for refugees in countries like moldova, in his country, in hungary, in my country, poland, comparable to what the european union has given turkey, which is nine billion euros. we need to give moldova the status of a candidate country for the european union. we need military support, which, fortunately, charles michel is announcing now during his visit to the moldovan capital this week. i hope we're all smart enough to stay out of trouble this time.
mr president, commissioner, the place of the republic of moldova is in the european union. the impeccable response of chisinau to the crisis in ukraine, including in terms of hosting refugees, is clear evidence that we share the same values and principles. the republic of moldova has demonstrated by its attitude and actions that it is a more european state than even some member states or candidate countries. partner status does not give any certainty about the future of this country as a state and cannot give any certainty to its citizens. straddled, with all its citizens, between the interests of two giant blocs, the european union and the russian federation, the small pro-european republic has the russian army on its eastern border and an eu on its western border that seems hesitant to open its doors to the european union. the policy of concessions to russia at the expense of the states of eastern europe must end. what have the repeated concessions to moscow over the last 30 years led to? to an aggressive russia that has unprovokedly invaded ukraine and unleashed a war and humanitarian disaster that threatens the peace and stability of europe and the world. i therefore request that the european union grant the republic of moldova the status of a candidate country for accession to the european union in accordance with article 49 of the treaty on european union.
mr president, i’m both highly proud of and deeply concerned for moldova. proud because of the incredible assistance the moldovan people have offered to the ukrainians and because of moldova’s unambiguous pro-european turn. but i am also concerned because putin and his cronies have now set their sights on moldova. the kremlin is pumping propaganda by the bucket—load into the country, it has ramped up its cyberattacks and its false flags in transnistria are escalating by the day. our moldovan friends have clearly chosen democracy over dictatorship and we should be firmly with them on every step of their path to the eu membership they seek. we cannot afford complacency. i commend the council and commission’s pledge to boost defensive aid to moldova, and this must be fast and ambitious. we need to learn fast and act fast now.
mr president, commissioner, commissioner, we are talking today about moldova, about the progress that this state is making towards respecting democratic and european values. we must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that the reforms of the last year and especially the way they reacted to the outbreak of the war in ukraine clearly show us that moldova is on the right track. but the danger is great for such a small country in the immediate vicinity of the war, especially as officials in moscow have declared moldova a possible target for russia. if ukraine had and has a ready army, which successfully copes with the russian invasion, the republic of moldova is a small state, unprepared for such a confrontation. in all honesty, when we talk about moldova, we have to ask ourselves what we, the european union, can do to support it if it is needed. what we'll be able to do in a negative scenario that nobody wants. in these difficult times, we must recognise that nato has a very important, crucial, irreplaceable role, but the european union still needs its own army, ready to defend the union's borders and those of the associated states, if necessary.
mr president, over the years, moldova has suffered with political instability and cases of corruption. however, the leadership of maia sandu, who supports european values, now promises to reorientate the country towards europe in the fight against corruption. moldova is showing great determination in the current crisis. compared to its population of only 2.6 million people, no country has received more ukrainian refugees than the republic of moldova, clearly showing that it is an ally ready to fight for a democracy and a european future. there are real concerns, however, about its ability to defend itself from a potential russian invasion should putin push towards its border with ukraine. there have been reports of repression of russian speakers in the transnistria region, just another example of russia’s use of disinformation to try to achieve its military objectives. we must ask ourselves what support the eu can provide to counter such harmful disinformation. the kremlin will likely try and force moldova back towards its sphere of influence, leveraging transnistria in some way. the eu must support moldova in resisting such forceful attempts to bind it to moscow so that the moldovan people may choose their own path towards the future. we stand with ukraine. we stand with moldova.
mr president, commissioner, i am very pleased that there is this debate today in the european parliament. in 2000, when putin first arrived in the kremlin, only 5% of moldovans wanted a european perspective. russia was extremely heavily involved and had total influence on moldovan society. i was directly involved in the process of removing the republic of moldova from russian influence, right at the front line. in response, the russian federation has declared me persona non grata. but today, commissioner, we have a different reality beyond the prut, in the republic of moldova, because more than 50% of the citizens of the republic of moldova are citizens of the european union and we must give them a clear european perspective, because the citizens of the republic of moldova have demonstrated by voting, by democratic means, that their place is here, with us, and we must give them this perspective.
mr. president, thank you. good morning, moldova, and welcome to the european union. today, 5 may 2022, is a historic moment because the parliament is voting and showing its solidarity with this european country and i ask you all to vote for this measure because it brings moldova together with romania into the big european family. i am an emergency doctor, working in moldova, in iasi, at the nicolae oblu emergency clinical hospital, and i treat citizens on both sides of the prut and i want from now on, because i know their problems and desires, and the council to give a firm and clear political signal about the accession of this country to the european union. good luck to you, moldova.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a romanian, as a member of the delegation for the republic of moldova, i have supported the resolution from the outset. i support everything that has been discussed here and said by the commissioner about aid. but, commissioner, i was saddened by what you said. you said you were waiting for the council to give you the go-ahead to be practical with these aids, not on paper. moldova now needs, needs financial aid, needs technical assistance, needs security from russia. that is why i am now addressing a public message to you, commissioner, through you and through the european parliament, the council. the council is not present here. first, i ask the president of romania to support the immediate release of the money and the granting of the money to the republic of moldova. citizens of the republic of moldova are europeans. i know moldova well from across the prut, which historically was separated from moldova on the other side of the prut. so, help for moldova in every way, european path and immediate support. commissioner, i expect you to do this and ask the council not to block, as it always does, everything we decide here. political statements do not help the moldovan citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank the honourable members very much for the fruitful debate. again, i want to thank parliament for the strong support for moldova. we welcome, of course, the resolution that is going to be adopted today because this is a very strong signal of support from the european union to moldova. we will, of course, continue to work together to find additional ways to help our moldovan friends to be able to face the current crisis, and we are going to stand in solidarity with all those who are bearing the weight of this war on their shoulders. this, of course, extends to the territorial integrity and security of the country.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. russia's aggression in ukraine has forever changed the fate of our continent. the western world has shown solidarity. whereas most european countries are managing to have a single voice, which until yesterday seemed almost impossible. from now on, europe will have to deal with an increasingly assertive kremlin policy. russia continues to commit atrocities in ukraine, the massacre in bucea, the killing of civilians is unimaginable, and the international community must take firm and swift action against russia. at the same time, the eyes of the world are on the republic of moldova. the situation in transnistria is of major concern. however, the moldovan population continues to show extraordinary solidarity with the ukrainian people. the republic of moldova hosts the largest number of ukrainian refugees in the region, in relation to the number of inhabitants. the chisinau government had to take immediate measures, such as providing medical assistance, meeting the needs of refugees for accommodation. the longer the war drags on, the more the european commission must increase its financial assistance to the republic of moldova. it's time to be more united than ever!
in writing. – in the context of the russian war against ukraine, the security situation in the republic of moldova has become increasingly tense. the country has been disproportionally affected by the recent events. i condemn all provocations and attempts to involve moldova in actions that could endanger peace in the country. the eu must be ready to provide more humanitarian, security and socio-economic assistance to the republic of moldova, the longer the russian war against ukraine lasts. this includes: increasing the financial and technical assistance, including through a new proposal for macro-financial assistance; putting forward additional proposals aimed at ensuring the full liberalisation of transport and trade with the eu; working towards granting eu candidate status to the republic of moldova, in line with article 49 of the treaty of the european union and on the basis of merit; in the meantime, working towards the full implementation of the association agreement with moldova and its integration into the eu single market. the moldovan authorities under president maia sandu are on the right track by adopting key reforms that will ensure moldova´s compliance with the ‘copenhagen criteria’. let us provide our full support to moldova’s european aspirations.
in writing. there are romanians, czechs, dutch and germans who see more of the empty than the full side of the glass of this project called the european union. some are right: there are some differences between what we thought and hoped the eu could do, what people expect from us and what the eu can really do. europe is not perfect. but the eu has achieved something unique on the planet: a combination of democracy, personal and thought freedoms, security and prosperity. today's moldova, with maia sandu, reminds me of the generation of walesa, havel, kohl. europeans without a doubt. after war, communism and poverty, the eu was a choice like no other. and it's still true today, especially for a country like moldova, where the troops of the 14th soviet army, today russia, have been turning the idea of war into a daily threat for the last 30 years. moldova maia sandu looks to the eu as her future, feeling at home and safe, giving people the sweet taste of victory and the warmth of the european family. we're not allowed to not open the gate. they are ours, our future is together and that is why we must tell them as soon as possible: welcome to the eu, moldovans!
in writing. i support the status of the republic of moldova as a candidate country to the european union. the concrete prospect of eu accession will keep the morale of the citizens of the republic of moldova who feel threatened and are experiencing material difficulties high. the longer russia's aggression against ukraine continues, the more the republic of moldova will need help from the union: humanitarian aid, security aid and economic aid. it is important that this be in the form of grants, in order to stabilise the socio-economic situation and to strengthen the overall resilience of the country. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. in this regard, i call on the european commission to use the emergency funds to quickly connect the republic of moldova to the union's electricity grid and to support it by all means to cope with external pressure on energy supply.
madam president, thank you, i have a harder name to pronounce. violence is violence, and violence in wartime is war crime. i want zero tolerance for such abominable acts, but in addition there are many other issues that i would have mentioned today. i'm an emergency physician in iasi, romania, on the border with moldova, and i've already treated patients from conflict zones. so you know, the drama is enormous and it needs to be addressed in other ways. and i want the lives of women and girls, mothers, grandmothers, children in war zones to be protected. and i ask you once again, commissioner, to activate the european medical corps and to go - i am also volunteering - to go to these war zones where the lives of all must be protected.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for its approval at the beginning of its next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today’s sitting to the persons and bodies named in the resolutions.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 5 may 2022.
dear colleagues, we have the president of moldova, maia sandu, with us today. president, let me start by thanking you – as you have just witnessed – for accepting our invitation to address the european parliament. we are really honoured to welcome you here today. i also want to thank you for your courage in the midst of russia’s unjust and illegal invasion in ukraine that has had such a profound impact on moldova. thank you for the efforts of your country and your personal commitment in sustaining a vision of a european future for your country against all odds. we know how deeply the combination of the covid pandemic, the ‘weaponisation’ of energy supplies and the kremlin’s full—scale war against ukraine have affected your country. moldova’s commitment to the european project is welcome. we are united in our commitment towards sustaining peace in europe and to our shared values of democracy and the rule of law. this is why we want to forge a way forward where moldova does not feel alone. i also want to praise your efforts, and those of the moldovan people, in welcoming 450 000 ukrainians that transited through moldova, and for opening your homes and hearts to the 90 000 refugees who have sought shelter in your country. we have to – and we are ready to – show the same degree of solidarity with your country. as we have already, we must continue to support you politically, financially and with any in—kind assistance needed to fight the consequences of russia’s war in ukraine. president, we are also ready to support you as you start the process of applying for candidate status for eu membership. we know that moldova is looking to us with a sense of purpose. every country must follow its own path, its own timeline, but we must not be afraid to use the power of europe to improve people’s lives, to change generations. this is why the european union needs to send a clear and firm political signal that we recognise the european aspirations of moldova and your effort in implementing key reforms that bring your country closer to us. moldova belongs in the european family. dear president, dear maia, the floor is yours.
president of the republic of moldova. – dear president metsola, dear roberta, honourable members of the european parliament, i feel here among the true friends of moldova and the circle of the family of our people. allow me, above all, to thank you on behalf of all moldovans for your constant, unwavering support of moldova and its european future, at good times and at bad times. your support has been vital in keeping moldova on its democratic path and supporting the aspirations of our people to live in peace and prosperity and to decide on our own future. thank you for this opportunity to address you at a time when our region and the world is going through its most difficult period in a long time. after the end of the cold war, expectations were high among our newly independent states for a new beginning. a new beginning of peace and development, which would relegate to the distant past unabashed land grabs and geopolitical conquests by larger states. we all hoped that utter disrespect for national borders and the way of life chosen by newly independent states would not recur. we expected that buffer zones and spheres of influence would no longer guide relations between neighbours. above all, we expected that states would be treated as peoples with their own aspirations, and that their will and voice would be heard and respected. russia’s war against ukraine seeks to put an end to these hopes and sends us all a century back in history. this war was caused precisely by geopolitical designs to reshape the region, to divide it into spheres of influence, to seize territory. russia has attacked a neighbouring state, just as big powers did in the past, and has unleashed an unimaginable tragedy on the ukrainian people and the entire european continent. russia’s war against ukraine was designed to turn ukraine into something that nobody would want to be – a geopolitical annex of a more powerful neighbour. the baltic states, the bulgarians, the hungarians, the poles, the romanians, the czechs, the slovaks and the germans – free states today – remember vividly and all too well what this means. we had hoped and expected that those times would never return. yet they did. we all see with our own eyes the tragedies of women, men, children and elderly people who lost their homes and their loved ones. we all saw crimes against ukrainians who did no wrong to anyone. moldova feels deeply the pain and the tragedy that ukraine is going through. in the early morning of 24 february, moldova woke up to a new, grim reality. like many in our country, i could hear the bombs falling over odesa from my office. but the shock, agony and disbelief of the war was met by our citizens with kindness, generosity and compassion. in a matter of a few hours, our authorities started receiving tens of thousands of refugees fleeing the brutality of the war. only in a few weeks, our population of 2.6 million people increased by 4%. almost half a million ukrainians crossed our border, and around 90 000 people are still with us, hosted by my big-hearted fellow citizens. half of the refugees today are children, and this constitutes 10% of the total number of children in my country. we are overwhelmed, but determined to do our best to help those in need. we will continue to provide humanitarian support to ukraine and will continue to stand by the ukrainian people, our neighbours, our friends, our partners. we have immediately condemned russia’s war against ukraine. we support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, as we always did. crimea is ukraine. donbas is ukraine. kyiv is ukraine. and they will always be. this war has no justification, and it must be stopped immediately. in the last three decades, moldova has had many achievements of which we can be proud. throughout our independent history, moldova has been and remains a democratic country with free and competitive elections. freely expressed will and dignity of our people is a fundamental value which is at the foundation of our state. our people have never allowed their freely expressed will to be taken away from them. those who tried were always met with failure. moldova today is guided and run by its people and they have consistently stopped politicians who wanted to impose their ill designs on the country. the freedom and the dignity of our people makes us a country with a strong european identity, which we deeply value. and our democracy and the freedom of speech are becoming stronger. this year, reporters without borders ranked moldova 40th out of 180 countries in the world press freedom index. that is 49 positions better than last year. they cite changes initiated by the government and improvements in the situation of journalists. we are working on consolidating democratic processes. we are taking serious steps to make sure that all political parties and their election campaigns are financed legally and transparently. we are working on countering disinformation and building a strong and resilient civil society and mass media. the people of moldova gave us a strong mandate to reform the country and bring it closer to the european union. today, like never before, the government’s commitment to reform institutions is unquestionable and profound. we are well on course towards reforming justice, a too long overdue process. courts are becoming cleaner, prosecution more professional and impartial. we have eliminated a big number of corruption schemes through which the state and the people have been robbed in the past. but building independent, strong institutions takes time. i am asking for your help in tackling the big corruption. i am asking you to sanction the corrupt politicians who captured institutions in the past, stole significant amounts of public money, and have moved abroad, investing the stolen money, including in countries with consolidated democracies. i’m asking you to help us recover the stolen money and bring the corrupt fugitives to justice. the eu states and institutions, the international community, should do more to reject the dirty money, especially the dirty money coming from fragile democracies. history and our own transition experience has taught us that the sustainability of democratic achievements is closely linked to economic development. a major challenge for us is to create economic opportunities for everyone at home, to convince our young people that it is worth trying to build a future in moldova. over the past nine months, the government and the parliament have been working together to improve the business environment. we are working with the business community inside and outside of moldova to demonstrate that moldova is changing and becoming a better place for one to build his or her future. we have increased support to smes and launched dedicated programmes for young entrepreneurs. with your help, we started building up our energy security and resilience. we embarked on the reform of our security sector. we are strengthening our border management capacity. we are taking steps to improve the efficiency of public spending, to improve coverage and targeting of the social assistance programmes, and to eliminate undeclared work. we are taking measures to improve access to quality education and health services. however, despite our achievements, we have been hit hard by a succession of crises culminating with the war against ukraine. the country’s resources are overstretched. the socio-economic situation is difficult. the dramatic increase in energy prices is the main reason for a historical surge in inflation – 27%. the measures that we are taking to build energy security will show results only in a few years. investments have practically stopped because of the war at our border. supply chains have been interrupted. even though 76% of our trade is with the european union, an important part was with ukraine, belarus and russia. financing the shortfalls in revenue is no simple task. the transnistrian conflict is another challenge that the country is facing. we remain committed to a peaceful, political resolution of the transnistrian conflict, fully preserving moldova’s sovereignty and territorial integrity within our internationally recognised borders. recent tensions inside the transnistrian region, however, have increased concerns over potential destabilisation. the moldovan government works hard to keep the situation stable and peaceful by pursuing a diplomatic track of conflict resolution. and we will continue to do so for the sake of our citizens on both banks of the nistru river. we do not want war or destabilisation. we have a vision for peaceful reintegration of the country, which will guide our efforts to keep the situation stable. we believe today there is no immediate threat of moldova being dragged into the war. moldova is also a neutral country by constitution, a provision still backed by a majority of our citizens, which we respect. however, to be really neutral, we have continuously called for the withdrawal of russian troops from our territory, because their presence in the transnistrian region fundamentally violates our neutrality and our independence. ladies and gentlemen, despite the long list of overlapping challenges that i just talked about, moldova is strongly determined to stay part of the free world. we are part of europe. the eu’s values are our values – respect for human life and the pursuit of everyone’s dreams in dignity and peace, as human beings. i ask you to increase the eu’s support for moldova – for the sake of moldovans who want to preserve their democracy and freedom, but also for the sake of europe, to have a stable, predictable and reliable partner and contributor to peace in its eastern neighbourhood. at the same time, our independence, peaceful development, economic and political reforms must have an anchor, and this anchor is a clear perspective of eu accession, the status of a candidate country. in the middle of the dramatic events, myself, the prime minister and the speaker of the parliament signed, on 3 march, the application for eu membership. we made this choice inspired by the aspirations of our people. we chose eu accession as a path towards freedom, prosperity and peace. a path that will require a lot of work, coordination and goodwill, but one that is worth every step. on 12 may, we submitted the completed comprehensive assessment which will provide the basis for the european commission to issue its opinion on moldova’s candidate status. this was a significant collective effort on behalf of our small civil service, parliament, civil society and our diaspora abroad. we all worked hard because, as a country, we believe in the eu, in its values and in its bright future. we are aware that political decisions at eu level have to be made. we are also aware that these are not easy decisions, but granting moldova candidate status is the right decision. first, i want to say this: we belong in the european union. we are a european country with a european language, a european history, and a european political system. at least one third of us are already eu citizens. our big diaspora is among you. you have likely met us. we live side by side with you. we pay taxes and contribute our share to the common good. we come from a diverse society where different cultures have co-existed in peace and harmony for centuries, preferring compromise to confrontation. in this, we are europeans. moldova’s democracy is gradually strengthening. we are fully committed to advancing reforms, ensuring rule of law and strengthening an independent and corruption—free justice system. our economy and trade is increasingly connected and integrated into the european market. the eu is our main trading and investment partner. very important for us – the eu is a peace project. the waves of eu integration transformed europe from a continent of war to a continent of peace. it embodies the successful struggle for peace and reconciliation, for democracy and human rights. we are not naive to believe that eu accession can take place overnight. we understand that the accession process is long and complicated, and we don’t look for shortcuts. we deem accession as based on meritocracy and achieved results, and not on geographic sequence. we fully respect the meritocratic principle. at the same time, we would like to see pragmatism and strategic political flexibility on behalf of the eu member states. a prospect of accession would send to moldovan citizens a strong signal that the eu stands by us. for us, eu membership status is the light at the end of the tunnel in these very difficult and uncertain times. it is a clear target and a strong political message to mobilise everyone – society, business community and authorities – around the european integration process. we need a political decision that will be for moldova the lighthouse in these terrible storms, guiding our country for years ahead. ladies and gentlemen, here at the european parliament, i know i’m speaking to people who are already convinced. this house is the consciousness of the european people. it is the institution that represents the people of europe. it provides a vision for europe. it is driving europe and it is standing by us, and i am very grateful for your support. it is just days ago that you, members of the european parliament, our friends and partners, have passed a resolution urging the eu to grant moldova a candidate status. thank you for this on behalf of all moldovans. thank you for recognising our european choice and our hard work in implementing reforms, our constant fight for democracy. we are asking for nothing more than to live in peace, that our voices be heard and taken into account and to be guided in our affairs by the will of our people. defending these values with your help, we will be able to build a prosperous future for our citizens. i ask you to become moldova’s ambassadors in your countries and call on policymakers to support moldova in its path to stay part of the free world by joining the world’s most successful peace project. i urge you to hear this strong message from the moldovan people – the european union should once again show that it is the world’s most successful union for advancing peace, prosperity and democracy. the eu has created the longest period of peace in europe’s history and it can do so again. extend this anchor of peace once again to states seeking safe harbour, which truly merit and believe in this. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
thank you very much president sandu, dear maia. as you can see by the reaction and the standing ovation of this house, we truly thank you for your commitment, your vision and your leadership. and we stand with you.
in consultation with the swedish and belgian prime ministers, i today sent a letter to my counterpart, mr mohammad baqer qalibaf, speaker of the islamic consultative assembly, the majlis. on behalf of the european parliament, i expressed our strong opposition to the death sentence on professor ahmad reza djalali and his execution, announced to take place this saturday. professor djalali is a swedish—iranian national and a scholar at the vrije universiteit brussel and the university of eastern piedmont. the european parliament strongly opposes the death penalty and has expressed its position in various resolutions. most recently, in february of this year, we adopted a resolution on the death penalty in iran, in which we called on iran to halt the execution of professor djalali, to pardon him and to release him immediately and unconditionally. i am repeating this call today. the death penalty is not a deterrent to capital crimes; it is an intolerable denial of the most basic human right – the right to life. professor djalali’s confession was extracted under torture and followed by a grossly unfair trial, so i hereby once more call on the islamic republic of iran to set ahmad reza djalali free.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sitting of the 5 may 2022 are available. i ask you, dear colleagues, whether there are any comments? this does not seem to be the case, and therefore they are approved.
following the election of tanja fajon as a member of the national parliament of slovenia, parliament takes note that, in accordance with the rules of procedure, her seat is vacant as of 13 may 2022.
the legal affairs committee has proposed that parliament confirm the validity of the mandates of 26 members who joined parliament as a consequence of the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union, and 23 members who joined parliament as replacements for outgoing members. the list of these members and the dates of entry into effect of their mandates will be published on parliament’s website.
helmut geuking has submitted a request for defence of his parliamentary immunity in the context of proceedings before the regional court of hamburg. in accordance with the rules of procedure, that request is referred to the committee on legal affairs as the committee responsible.
the epp, s&d and id groups and the non—attached members have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the imco and inta committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports which constitute the mandates for the negotiations are available on the plenary web page, and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, thursday 19 may, at midnight, that the decision to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made within the deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
i would also like to inform that in the course of the current part—session of parliament, i shall sign, together with the president of the council, six acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of our rules of procedure. the titles of these acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 4 may, pursuant to rule 157, has been distributed. i would like to remind that i informed you all by email about the reception of two requests for urgent procedure from the envi and libe committees, pursuant to rule 163, on the following legislative files:– proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2016/1628 as regards the extension of the empowerment of the commission to adopt delegated acts;and– proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2018/1727 of the european parliament and the council, as regards the collection, preservation and analysis of evidence relating to genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes at eurojust. the vote on these two requests will be taken today once the order of business is established and, if adopted, the vote will be held on thursday. next, with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposal for changes to the final draft agenda. we were informed that the council cannot be attending this part—session in brussels, and therefore the council and commission statements on the prosecution of opposition and detention of trade union leaders in belarus, the fight against impunity for war crimes in ukraine and european solidarity and energy security in face of russia’s invasion of ukraine and recent cuts of gas supply to poland and bulgaria, are changed into commission statements. moreover, the title of the commission statement, scheduled as the third item on thursday morning, is changed into repowereu plan – european solidarity and energy security in face of russia’s invasion of ukraine, including the recent cuts of gas supply to poland and bulgaria. finally, the report by ms kalniete on temporary trade liberalisation supplementing trade concessions applicable to ukrainian products under the eu—ukraine association agreement is added directly to the votes on thursday. if there are no objections, these changes are approved. with regard to wednesday, the id group has asked that a commission statement on the persecution of christians around the world, notably the case of deborah samuel, be added as the last item today, on wednesday. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended until 11 p.m. i give the floor to mr jean—paul garraud to move the request on behalf of the id group.
thank you, mr garraud. can i ask whether any member would like to speak against? if not, we move straight to the vote by roll call. so i open the vote, giving colleagues the time to put the cards in the machines. i close the vote. that is rejected, and therefore the agenda is unchanged. also for wednesday, the left group has asked that the commission statement on the targeting of journalists in palestine by the israeli occupation, in particular the case of shireen abu aqla, be added as the second item today. i give the floor to mr manu pineda to move the request on behalf of the left group.
can i ask the left group whether it agrees with the s&d proposal, with ms incir? you agree? okay. then i put the request with this title from ms incir to a vote by roll call. i close the vote. that is adopted. therefore, a commission statement on the killing of palestinian journalist shireen abu aqla and the violent incidents at her funeral is added as a second item on wednesday. the statement will be followed by a round of political group speakers. the agenda is adopted and the order of business is thus established.
we shall now vote on the requests for urgent procedure. we shall be voting on two motions. the first request concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2016/1628 as regards the extension of the commission's power to adopt delegated acts. before the vote, only the proposer and one speaker against the proposal may be heard, together with the chair or rapporteur of the committee responsible. does anyone want to talk about it? that's not the case. that is why i put the motion to the vote. (parliament adopted the resolution) the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 19 may 2022, at 12 noon. amendments may be tabled until wednesday, 18 may 2022, 5 p.m. the deadline for requesting separate and distinct votes is 8 p.m. today, wednesday. the second request concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2018/1727 of the european parliament and of the council as regards the collection, storage and analysis of evidence related to genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes by eurojust. before the vote, only the proposer and one speaker against the proposal may be heard together with the chairman or rapporteur of the committee responsible.
chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, at this stage, i’m humbly and kindly asking you to endorse this proposal for amending the eurojust regulation. you know what it’s like: after the war launched by putin’s russia against ukraine, the urgent need came to light to amend the eurojust regulation precisely to ensure its capacity to prevent impunity of the atrocities perpetrated in this war against ukraine by russian troops. the purpose of this amended regulation is precisely to set up an automated management data system and a storage facility with the aim of helping eurojust to preserve and share evidence which is relevant precisely to prevent impunity of those crimes perpetrated in the war against ukraine. that is the only purpose of these amending regulations: precisely to help eurojust to better cooperate with member states, third states, and most importantly, with the international criminal court and its prosecutor, which opened an investigation on the matter, to help the joint investigation teams, which are already underway, and to make sure that, as swiftly as possible, eurojust has the capacity to assist and support member states in their investigations and eventually prosecutions of all those to be held accountable for those war crimes, namely: genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. those are the crimes which are contemplated in this amended regulation. and the idea is, by the urgent procedure, you know hwat it’s like, in one first reading, we will have the vote tomorrow, that will be the end of our position insofar as the council agrees to the position that has been endorsed by the libe committee, which we will be voting on tomorrow. that means that if coreper, i.e. the council, agrees to the european parliament position, that will be the end of the procedure, that will be the entry into force of this amended regulation. that is the idea. so, i kindly request you to endorse this urgent procedure so that we show once again that, when it’s needed, we may achieve concrete results in fighting against impunity of war crimes.
does anyone wish to speak against this motion? that's not the case. then i shall come to the vote. (parliament adopted the resolution) the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 19 may 2022, at 12 noon. amendments can be tabled until today, 18 may 2022, at 5 p.m., and the deadline for requesting separate and separate votes is also today at 8 p.m.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr tudorache, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova (2021/2237 (ini)). this is in line with the president's speech today. i would remind you that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. after you have inserted your voting cards into the voting machine, you can apply for spontaneous reports and blue cards through your voting machine. i assume that you all introduced the ballot box because we did have a roll call vote first. if you wish to speak spontaneously, i would ask you to do so now and not wait until the end of the debate. i would also like to point out that blue cards can also be held up for a short verbal message and that a follow-up question is permitted afterwards. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium in front of me, with the exception of spontaneous speeches, blue cards and comments on the rules of procedure. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
rapporteur. – mr president, i cannot think of a better timing and better sequence to debate and vote on our report on moldova. we have just heard from the president of the republic, maia sandu. her powerful words are the words of the majority of moldovan citizens. through the hardship of multiple crises, and through the kindness of their solidarity with ukrainian refugees, the moldovans have spoken to us today about their aspirations, about their ambitions, about their european projections. that hardship, that solidarity and that commitment to european values is the most significant test of identity, of belonging, that a nation must pass in its path to integration. and i am therefore proud that we here in this house are not ignoring the call of the moldovans and the powerful plea of president maia sandu. i am proud that our report is as clear as it can be: we want that the republic of moldova is given candidate status. of course, the road to actual membership will be long and full of hard work, and the moldovans understand that. today, we’ve heard the president being highly realistic about this perspective. but the force of the political message itself is not to be underestimated. and this message is not only to the citizens of moldova. it also tells the world that the european union stands by those with whom it shares values, and it does so in a concrete and tangible manner. and it is certainly a message to putin, and to all dictators of the world, that we remain united in the face of aggression, that autocracy and atrocity will not prevail over democracy and the quest for self—determination. going beyond words, the european union and the republic of moldova must turn this political momentum into practical steps. there are reforms to be done. our report mentions a good number of key transformations that the country must go through: justice and anti—corruption, the banking sector, energy security and diversification, and economic convergence, administrative reform. all these are ‘construction sites’ where moldova must get hard at work. and we also use our report to call for the commission and the eeas to find creative and constructive ways to assist the country with gradual forms of sectoral integration. we need a model and methodology of integration that is more dynamic and aligned with geopolitical realities, one that motivates and energises by allowing merit—based incremental access to eu tools and programmes, including participation in institutional work at eu level. to conclude, i want to thank the shadows from all political groups – not only for the very constructive attitude with which we’ve worked together on this report, but also for sharing the vision that this parliament has for the future of moldova.
member of the commission. – mr president, first, let me thank the european parliament for inviting president maia sandu today, who we have just heard addressing the house. i met the president earlier today and i reiterated to her our support to moldova. i also took the opportunity to praise the humanitarian efforts undertaken by the country and the government – and she herself – by welcoming and opening their homes to those fleeing the war in ukraine. now, let’s focus on some key elements highlighted in your report. we take very good note of your call to grant candidate status to moldova in line with article 49 of the treaty on european union and on the basis of merit. we understand the importance of the eu membership application for the moldovan people. following the request by the council, the commission has swiftly launched its work on the opinion. in this regard, i would like to commend the swift replies of the moldovan authorities to both parts of our questionnaire. this is crucial in preparing our assessment. these replies, combined with information already available to us through our ongoing work with moldova, will support our preparation of the opinion which we intend to deliver before the european council meeting in june this year, so that further decisions can be taken by the council at that time. in parallel, we continue to strengthen sectorial cooperation under the association agreement and deep and comprehensive free trade area. earlier this month, during the plenary session in strasbourg, i have already highlighted some of our actions on the ground to support moldova with crisis—related and financial assistance. today, i am pleased to announce that we are making additional support available to the moldovan border guards by granting executive powers to the european border assistance mission to moldova and ukraine, also known as eubam, for border control activities. i want to reassure you that the commission remains fully committed to moldova and will continue to provide help and assistance for its pressing needs while continuing our long—term reforms mentioned in your report, including in the justice, energy and public administration sectors. we are currently preparing the 2022 bilateral assistance programme for moldova. it will build on the recently adopted programme for last year and will focus on improving moldova’s socio—economic resilience. the commission is actively involved in the recently launched moldova support platform. the initiative of france, germany and romania provides an additional channel to support the country in a comprehensive manner by pooling a large group of donors, including international financial institutions. we share your concerns on the recent developments in transnistria. we remain fully committed to facilitating a comprehensive, peaceful and sustainable settlement of the transnistrian conflict. finally, we are closely monitoring the situation and we are stepping up our support for strengthening moldova’s resilience, including by working on cybersecurity, hybrid threats, fighting disinformation, and providing moldova’s armed forces with medical, logistics and communications equipment.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i would first like to thank my colleague, mr dragos tudorache, for this excellent report. it wasn't easy at all. the context of this report has been constantly evolving, both for the better with the application for accession of the republic of moldova and for the worse with the invasion of ukraine. it is precisely in this context that our message today is essential: we stand with the republic of moldova more than ever. we want them to join us in the union and, above all, we are with them in implementing the courageous reforms that the chisinau authorities have initiated. but for that, we need to be more strategic and more determined. political dialogue needs to be intensified, sectoral cooperation needs to be extended, macro-financial assistance needs to be increased and it needs to become more coherent, with a focus on grants. the establishment of a support group for the republic of moldova, on the model of the one already created for ukraine, would allow us to better accompany judicial reforms, the fight against corruption, economic recovery, including preparation for future accession negotiations. finally, a word on judicial reform and anti-corruption efforts. i want to encourage the chisinau authorities to continue with the same determination on this path. these sectors are fundamental to giving the citizens of the republic of moldova the future they deserve and deserve with us here in the european union. today, in the plenary, when president maia sandu spoke, there were students from the republic of moldova, from the college of europe, who were there to hear this speech. i think and hope that they were proud of their leader, of the republic of moldova and of the representation that it has in europe. they are waiting and we are all waiting for europe in the european family.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, luckily, today we send a really powerful signal to the moldovan people in an extremely difficult time, surviving a period of instability, difficulties after covid – yet showing enormous generosity in welcoming ukrainians fleeing atrocities in a war waged by russia in ukraine. it is an enormously powerful message by maia sandu’s statement here in the european parliament and by a very good report we have issued jointly, in consensus, over political divisions. we acknowledge moldova as a member of the european community, of a european community of nations that want to realise their aspirations. and we want to help the moldovan authorities and moldovan people in achieving candidacy status to the eu as soon as possible.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, we were all moved by the grave speech of mrs sandu, who is the courageous prime minister of a country in crisis and who is making a huge effort to welcome a flood of refugees fleeing the war in ukraine. i think it was right for us as european parliamentarians to reaffirm our support for him at a time when this country is facing immense difficulties and - this has been said but i repeat it - at a time when moldova's territorial integrity is being called into question, in particular by tiraspol, which has made a completely irresponsible declaration of independence, and by some russian leaders who dream of a corridor between crimea and transnistria. it is good that we, as a group, have opposed it. but i think we need to go further in aid, because it is not just emergency aid, it is aid in response to the social crisis and i would not like to have the usual recipes which say: 'we will give you loans and free trade agreements'. we must live up to the expectations of the moldovans; the european union must meet the expectations of the moldovan youth, who are migrating en masse because they are facing immense material difficulties. we need to provide support in the face of emergency, but also in the long term and for this, we need money and not just loans or a hypothetical free trade agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the president of the republic of moldova has made it very clear to us today: 'the citizens of the republic of moldova want the republic of moldova to join the european union, they want to live in security, stability, with prospects of prosperity, just like the citizens of our states' and our response, if the citizens of the republic of moldova want to join us, must be one: 'yes, the republic of moldova has a european perspective, the republic of moldova can become a member state of the european union, let's work together to achieve this'. we have all seen in recent months how the citizens of the republic of moldova have received refugees from ukraine, in full european spirit. they opened their homes to ukrainian citizens who needed help, they provided food, they provided water, they provided shelter and security to ukrainian citizens. just as moldovan citizens opened their homes to ukrainian citizens, so we, the european union, must open the door for the republic of moldova to come closer to the european union and the prospect of the republic of moldova joining the european union. the reforms ambitiously carried out by the pro-european government in chisinau are included in the report of our colleague dragos tudorache and detailed in this report. we know that there is still a lot to do before accession, but our important message must be 'yes, we are working'. and just as finland and sweden want to join nato and will both be accepted into nato, just as if ukraine and the republic of moldova want to join the european union, it is our obligation to offer them that prospect.
mr president, mr commissioner, i want to thank the rapporteur on this valuable reflection on the state of play of our relations with moldova. we acknowledge many of reforms undertaken, and specify the ones that should remain a priority in the upcoming months and, most notably, the strengthening of the state institutions and justice reform. the european parliament will remain a strong supporter of all of the reform processes, as confirmed by the memorandum of understanding with the parliament of moldova last year. we cooperate in many areas, but we should do more and we should increase our financial institutions’ assistance for all of the necessary reforms. lastly, given the changed security context following the russian invasion of ukraine and the pro—european geopolitical orientation, moldovan efforts should be acknowledged politically too. supporting a swift assessment of moldova’s readiness and applications for eu membership would be an essential step in the right direction. we support that.
mr president, the report presented by our colleague dragoș tudorache is unequivocal. the republic of moldova is a truly european country, led by a president and a government with a reformist agenda. a third of the citizens of the republic of moldova are already european citizens, so the place of the republic of moldova is in the european union and the sign of accession must come now, when the desire of the moldovans is very clear. history must not be impeded by procedures and that is why european leaders must be, show at least as much courage as maia sandu. how else should moldova prove its attachment to european values, when it risked everything to be in this family - and you saw the solidarity that the citizens of the republic of moldova showed towards the ukrainian refugees? you also saw a republic of moldova that has taken all the risks and economic costs, by siding with ukraine and the european union in this russian aggression. the republic of moldova is also a country with a fragile economy and no longer able to export products to ukraine or the republic of moldova. therefore, it needs very clear help now from the european union, which should support, in my view, by eliminating border taxes for products from the republic of moldova, increasing export quotas to the european union for moldovan products. dear colleagues, let us not ignore the symbolic dimension that the offer of the republic of moldova's candidate status to the european union can bring. it is a historic moment not only for eastern europe, but for all of europe and we must show ourselves worthy of this historic moment of which the republic of moldova must be a part. (the speaker agreed to reply to a 'blue card' intervention)
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. mr president, mr president cioloș, you said that the republic of moldova is facing a very dangerous economic crisis and the european union must act immediately. you gave a few examples. please kindly detail these examples, because they are essential and they must reach the republic of moldova.
response to the 'blue card' intervention. mr president, (the beginning of the speech was not made at the microphone) ... for the question, mr tomac. i was referring to some very concrete things, because beyond promises and fine words, we can also show concrete examples and i am glad that the commissioner is here to listen. a few years ago, when i was european commissioner, i removed the import quotas in the european union for moldovan wine. there were also member states that feared this decision, that we would be invaded by moldovan wine. the european market has not been disrupted. the republic of moldova sells its wine to the european union and producers have been able to develop. we can do the same for other agricultural products, agri-food products that would help the economy of the republic of moldova enormously, without this having a negative impact on the european market.
mr president, moldova is in a very difficult situation due to russia’s aggression against ukraine, which is why the european union must give moldova its full support. moldova is a very important recipient of ukrainian refugees. there are more than 100 000 refugees in the country, mostly in moldovan homes. that is why moldova needs eu financial support to help these people. at the same time, moldova is completely dependent on russia for energy. the eu also must help moldova increase its energy security by creating new connections. otherwise, russia will have a significant leverage to influence moldova. moldova’s only power plant is in russian—controlled transnistria. in addition, the eu should increase its import quotas for moldovan agricultural and other products in order to give moldova better access to the eu market. this would also help reduce economic dependence on russia. it is also important that the eu soon respond positively to moldova’s application for eu membership. this would give moldova and its pro—european government a clearer perspective.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the agreement on moldova's accession to the european union is welcome. i welcome the president, who has presented her point of view, but i believe that we need not only to vote for this agreement, but to find a solution to help and support the citizens of the republic of moldova, now that they are facing fire, in the face of war, now that they no longer have a market, when they have economic, financial problems. let us advance the aid we have proposed, support them with procedures and regulations on public administration, because the president said they have a crisis of civil servants in public administration, and find solutions to advance the money that was scheduled to be given to the republic of moldova, because i know the republic of moldova very well. moldovans are generous, but if they don't have enough, they can't give more. and we have a historic duty now to support the republic of moldova to hasten accession and to financially support the citizens there.
today we have indeed seen and heard the choice of the moldovan people. it is indeed a joy when work is not different from language - what is spoken is done. and it's really very good for us that this country is working with purpose, choosing its own direction, and is working to build a democratic, safe country and to build prosperity for its people. the european commission should therefore duly assess moldova's choice and grant it candidate status without delay. this process should not take long enough. we should make it possible for moldova to join the european community quickly.
mr president, commissioner, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr tudorache, on a very good job, but i want to emphasize a point which is part of the political decision that the european union must take. because let's not forget one very important thing: the republic of moldova is a victim of the molotov-ribbentrop pact, it is a former soviet republic which, like the baltic countries, was a victim of criminal collusion. that is why today, in her speech, president maia sandu emphasised an extremely important point, namely that the people of the republic of moldova are european. romanians in the republic of moldova speak one of the official languages of the european union. a good part of the citizens of the republic of moldova are already citizens of the european union and that is why it is essential to accelerate this process and to give the citizens of the republic of moldova the justice they deserve.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, thank you very much for this discussion and the very clear commitment shown today towards moldova and its people. let me assure you that we are closely following the situation in moldova and that we continue to work on the opinion on moldova’s application for membership to the european union. we will, of course, also continue – and look forward advancing – our collaboration to find additional ways to help moldova to face the current crisis, because we think that we will have more help needed for that country, and we are ready to deliver that.
rapporteur. – mr president, i concluded my first introductory remarks by thanking the colleagues, thanking the shadow rapporteurs, for their work and for the united vision. i can only thank them again for confirming this through the addresses that they’ve made today. i also want to thank the commission. i didn’t do it in the first round, but i want to thank them really for how they’ve handled the numerous emergencies that moldova has put on the table in the last couple of months, from energy supply alternatives to urgent budgetary support. i also want to invite you – and i’m sure that you’ve heard this message today from the colleagues – to also take this message back to the commission, both in terms of the political message that is needed, but also in terms of the very concrete support that they now need, including through export quotas, which is something that is vitally important for compensating the effects of the war. the key political takeaway, the key political conclusion for me from today’s debate is that moldova’s commitment to europe is no longer just words. it is felt in the drive to reform the judiciary and to strengthen the rule of law. it is felt in how they hosted half a million refugees in their country, and how they withstand russian pressure. it is a commitment that comes with risks and costs, and though they’re not doing it with guns in their hands, moldovan citizens are fighting alongside their ukrainian neighbours for the european dream, and for the values that bring us together. all that is needed now is our voice saying, without hesitation, that the republic of moldova’s rightful place is by our side.
madam president, commissioner, the rule of law, together with democracy and fundamental rights, are the foundations of the european union, and in today's geopolitical reality we see how these values are what distinguish us europeans from other states and make us stronger together, especially in such challenging circumstances. they are not optional. respect for the rule of law is binding on all member states of the european union. we must therefore all play by the same rules, and those who break them must be severely punished, because the european project must stand up to any challenge. if we europeans cannot fully respect the rule of law at home, how can we expect to be credible in external contexts? that's why i think it's essential to think about the consequences of deviating from the rules, and it's essential to put the necessary pressure on those who trample on the values that are the foundation of the european union, because those governments only produce conflict, suffering, isolation and silence.
mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. commissioner, i think the debate is very appropriate in this context, but there will always be pretexts for being more lenient towards certain states. that's why i think we should never equate the administration with the people. obviously the citizens of north macedonia are europeans, they want to be members of the european union, but we should not be making exceptions. and i very much want all the disputes that exist for cultural, linguistic and historical reasons to be handled with a lot of caution, with a lot of efficiency, so that the things that separated us in the past stay there in history, and the future is built on the new coordinates that made us strong, because that is what the european union means: peace, protection, innovation and, of course, a much safer future for our citizens. so north macedonia has to be strategically part of the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank the rapporteur and ms santos and this house for putting forward a balanced text on our progress report 2021 on albania. let me start by stressing once again that albania and the western balkans remain a geostrategic priority for the european union. at this very sensitive time for european security, it is crucial to send the strongest possible signal to our closest neighbours and to repeat our commitment to their eu accession. now more than ever, we need to move forward by officially opening accession negotiations with the holding of the first intergovernmental conference. further delay could have a negative impact on the eu’s credibility as a reliable partner, as well as on the stability of the entire region. we welcome albania’s alignment with the eu’s restrictive measures and sanctions against russia. as was said by the rapporteur, showing its alignment to the eu’s cfsp, albania has used its ongoing term in the un security council to respond to the crisis among like—minded countries. this confirms its full commitment to advance on the eu path. therefore, we keep up our engagement with albania in every way we can, including through our financial assistance. to this end, the economic and investment plan has entered full implementation, and we stand ready to assess what can be accelerated within the ipa assistance. albania’s determination in the pursuit of its eu reform agenda and continuous fulfilment of all council conditions is all the more remarkable. the vetting process of the re—evaluation of judges and prosecutors has advanced steadily and continues to deliver tangible results. the extension of the constitutional mandate of vetting has been recently voted. this represents a vote not only for justice reform, but also for albania’s future in the european union. the institutions for the self—governance of the judiciary have continued to be fully functional and operate effectively. so the country has delivered tangible and sustainable reform, with the adoption of a number of significant legislations in the areas of the population census and the efficiency of the judiciary. nonetheless, we do expect further progress, notably on media freedom, the adoption of the remaining by—laws on minority rights, the judicial map, and the establishment of a new integrated cases management system complying with eu standards. the commission will continue to monitor this thoroughly, and the same goes for the track record of the effort to counter corruption and organised crime. i thank you again for the report first but also for your support, and i’m sure that it will be very important to have a debate today to see how far it is possible to go with your support.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, albania must start membership negotiations as soon as possible. the european commission has repeatedly confirmed that albania has met the requirements for the opening of these negotiations. i congratulate tirana on its participation and its full support for all european union policies related to the war in ukraine. however, reforms must be deep, irreversible and cover fundamental areas, starting with the rule of law and the functioning of democratic institutions. the fight against corruption and ensuring the independence of the media, which is not to be disturbed by self-censorship, are important elements for the democratic transformation of albanian society. i welcome the legislative changes undertaken by tirana that strengthen the efficiency of the judicial system and i believe it is very important that they are implemented. funds from the 3rd eap should be used to support the reform process, economic development and competitiveness. i would like to underline albania's crucial contribution to the protection of the external borders of the union and to the prevention of cross-border crime and the abuse of free movement within the european union. albania should step up its efforts to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion by improving access to social, educational and health services for all sections of society. finally, serbia and montenegro started their own negotiations. there's no logic to explain why countries should be grouped. furthermore, one of the basic principles is that each country's achievements should be evaluated separately. i call again for the immediate opening of negotiations with albania.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, dear isabel, congratulations for your constructive approach, but also congratulations you for your knowledge and dedication, which is very well reflected in the albania progress report. we certainly should recognise albania’s role for regional stability, and its full alignment with the relevant foreign and defence commitments towards nato and the european union. i must say that during the last year in domestic politics, albania has made progress when it comes to eu integration. that was possible only because of the good relationship between the opposition and the government. i would say that the important and constructive political dialogue and the willingness to compromise on key issues between the government and opposition is vital to advance the eu accession process. the report also clearly highlights the positive step that the government has taken under the administrative preparations for the upcoming accession negotiations. of course, we are all aware that albania has fulfilled the conditions and delivered sustained results across the fundamentals, and is completely ready to convince the first intergovernmental conference. this is something that i fully support. but unfortunately, albania continues to suffer from the dispute between bulgaria and north macedonia. certainly, i am the one advocating that the country should a have a certain role to play in the european parliament, in the european union , and the european parliament should be vocal in supporting the eu—atlantic role of both countries.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, colleagues, first of all, i want to thank our rapporteur, isabel santos, and our shadow rapporteurs for holding a very inclusive process when it came to the compromise sessions that we had so that actually we compromised on all points. there is just one minor point on the vlora airport construction and the reduction of an environmentally protected area, but these concerns we can raise. on another point, more or less the report reflects very much also the important points that we brought in, important points praising, on the one hand, the substantial reforms albania has delivered. albania has done all their homework. yes, there is a lot of work to do still on media reform, on fighting against criminal activities in the country, on media freedom, clearly. but also on the question of plurality in the country, political plurality. because what we see now is two parties which are not really reflecting two different political standpoints, but two different regions of the country fighting each other on a very rude way. so, plurality also in terms of party politics is something we have to see. then we have the situation that albania is coupled in their accession talks with north macedonia. there are some good reasons to do that. but we have to be aware – and this is to the colleagues from the bulgarian side – that advocating to keep up this veto in terms of having negotiations is blackmailing and not negotiations. accession negotiations are negotiations, but you first need to accept your partner to negotiate with and you’re not just blackmailing your neighbouring country, but you’re blackmailing the security interests and the economic interests of the european union and the whole region. this should be acknowledged. i think we should push all our governments to put pressure on bulgaria to finally lift this deadlock so we can start accession talks as early as possible.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, albania is trying to meet the official requirements and has my full support in that. however, i would like to point out one thing that is extremely important for all the candidate countries, and that is the phenomenon that, in addition to the existing requirements they have to meet, some european lobbies present their worldview goals as official requirements, and this is unacceptable. i'll give you a clear example. legalization of same-sex marriage is not and cannot be a condition for entry into the european union. it is unacceptable that these lobbies should exploit the difficult situation of the candidate countries, create painful pressures and thus delay the reforms that are really needed. certain countries may have certain requirements for you albanians. for example, croatia may ask you to solve the big problem of plastic pollution in the adriatic sea. but no country can ask you to do anything that is not in the european union's interest. that is why i call on you to inform us, the members of the european parliament, immediately if any european lobbyists are putting such illegal pressure on you because we want a real and fair path for albania towards membership of the european union.
mr president, the status in which we have relegated albania is something we cannot afford anymore as the geopolitics of our neighbourhood is showing us once again, if there was still any doubt, how the enlargement perspective of the western balkans is more important than ever. i fully agree with high representative borrell when he says that this situation is not only harming the candidate countries but is also harming us, presenting tremendous costs in terms of credibility and political perspective. it gives to russia and other players who want us weak and divided. dear colleagues, albania has made its homework. albania has achieved concrete reforms and real progress, and is demonstrating its willingness to advance in its accession process. now it’s our turn to deliver. there’s still a chance in the june council to remedy this historical error. my plea to our bulgarian friends is to lift their veto so that the council can do finally the right thing. we have huge challenges coming in the near future. we are all aware of that, and i strongly believe that we can better face them if we overcome our divisions. dear colleagues, the time is now. we can’t wait anymore because the rest of the world won’t wait for us. albania is europe. europe must be together with albania.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms santos, for an excellent report, and also the shadow rapporteurs, to have this really good and comprehensive report on albania. we are going as the foreign affairs committee next week, and i will have the pleasure that we convey the messages that we are having today here. but the one message that we should convey to the western balkans, to albania and to all the other countries – north macedonia, bosnia and herzegovina, serbia, montenegro – is that they are not forgotten. they are not forgotten, they are there and we are there for them. we want them in the european union. the enlargement must continue without stopping. there is no other union than the european union. there is no other choice than european union. there is no peace and security without the western balkans in the european union. as well, i repeat, as i repeated with north macedonia, together with moldova, together with ukraine, we have to consider the european union as a peace project. it is how it started, and on the way maybe it lost its sense, but now we are coming back to our roots. the european union is a peace project. we have to bring the western balkans to the european union. we will start with albania, north macedonia, and continue. this process will not end.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the transition to a genuine, strong democracy is a long and very difficult process, and once we have established functioning democratic institutions, it takes determination and effort to maintain them. democratic values, human rights, non-discrimination, freedom of speech and all the other values that the european union stands for require constant attention and effort. the steps albania has taken to move closer to our values are great. it was a long and arduous process, after decades of dictatorship, after decades in which civil society, citizens, whether they were politicians or magistrates or other professions, were accustomed to a different way of life. albania's efforts clearly show the desire to go further, to join the european union, and even if there is still progress to be made, we must give this chance to a people who have been making sustained progress for almost ten years. i think albania needs to take the next step and the european union needs to support this.
mr president, commissioner, i have visited albania many times and it is clear that progress is being made from year to year. but we should not punish a european nation, with a european vocation, which aspires to join the european union, just because the administration sometimes does not do its homework. that is why i think it is essential to emphasize, in the negotiations with tirana, the values on which the european union is built, because democracy, freedom of expression, human rights are not values to negotiate with anyone, much less with a state that wants to become a member of the european union. it is obvious that this is a country with a lot of turmoil, with a lot of internal difficulties in understanding and implementing a number of reforms, but our assistance is essential, because it is in the strategic interest of the european union that albania should become a member of the eu as soon as possible.
madam president, the arrest of trade unionists in belarus is not just a criminal attack on people who are uncomfortable with the lukashenko regime. it is an attack on a democratic institution - the trade union - and on the fundamental rights guaranteed by the international labour organization, of which belarus is a member. it's no coincidence that three months after the barbaric invasion of ukraine, the free world is being challenged again by putin's friend. these two characters insist on challenging us, trampling treaties and the principles that make the world's democracies work. it is clear that the numerous sanctions imposed on the lukashenka regime are not working. the dictator will continue to do as he pleases, and in the meantime, people who only want to live by the same values as every other european are putting their freedom and lives at risk every second of every day. asking for the release of these people is not enough. the union urgently needs to find bolder and more effective solutions to support those who oppose the dictatorship. without our support, change will never come to belarus, and democratic europe will never be whole.
madam president, commissioner, i have chosen to speak today about dual citizenship in the european union versus the double standard. and why i chose this. romania has over a million workers in spain. they live there, they have families there, they have children. and yet, they do not have access to all jobs - as we say, because in the european union, all european citizens have access - because they are not granted dual citizenship, they are required to renounce romanian citizenship. curiously, spain has a bilateral agreement with france, and french citizens are granted dual citizenship without being required to renounce their citizenship. what do i explain to the citizens of romania? i went there, i met, their work contributes to the gdp of spain and i didn't have a coherent answer, because no one gave it to me. i have also written a letter to the commission, a written question, because it seems to me that we are being discriminated against again. once again, unity is not working, we no longer have a european union, we no longer have a single market, we no longer have free access to employment, as the treaty says.
madam president, (the beginning of the speech was not made at the microphone) ... always one step ahead. innovation is what has helped us to improve our living and working conditions, even here in the european parliament. it's all innovation that can help us make the transition to a green economy and a less polluting industry and to digitization. and yet, we see that in recent years, the great ideas that are born here in the european union are put into practice and commercialized by partners in other countries. globalization has brought about better economic cooperation, and the recent global crises have shown us that we need to place a greater emphasis on autonomy and, of course, on harnessing innovative ideas right here at home. it is important that we support innovation, both in our directives and regulations and in the programmes and distribution of european funds. we need to create a european market for innovation and make sure that the exploitation of ideas is possible and profitable in the european union. it is the only way to ensure that the european economy has a strong presence in this market.
madam president, today i had the honour of hearing the president of the republic of moldova, maia sandu, speak in the plenary of the parliament. i am glad that i am personally very familiar with the situation in the republic of moldova, madam president, but i would like to bring up another issue that concerns the republic of moldova, namely the illegal presence of russian federation troops in the transnistrian region of the republic of moldova for over 30 years. there for over three decades, children, people of all ages are subjected to a diabolical process of denationalization and their rights are being curtailed. these are people who fight every day for their dignity and i am glad that in tiraspol, the only institution with romanian language teaching is standing, and recently its director, who served it for almost three decades, ion iovcev, also released a book, "hostage in his own country", in which he accurately portrays what is happening there. we need to do more for transnistria and the republic of moldova.
mr president, commissioner, we have a date marked in red on the calendar: 2025. by 2025, the european education area should be the driver of quality, inclusive, accessible and affordable education for all. in this way we have three complementary instruments: micro-credentials, a tool that must be public to recognise short periods of learning; individual learning accounts, a way to contribute to continuing training; and education for sustainability, to create citizens who are aware of the protection of the planet. these are three good instruments, but they should not distract us from our main objective: the date in red on the calendar. although we approved the report in the european parliament a year ago, we do not see any action by the commission to create this area. we can't lose the future. by 2025, we must have a borderless educational space, with automatic recognition of qualifications at all levels. the european education area must be the driving force for building a better european union. and it must be a reality without delay.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, do you hear that little music coming up? as in the proposals of the conference on the future of europe, which clearly call for a european education policy, there is a feeling that pressure is mounting on states to renounce their sovereignty. this resolution on the european education area goes totally in that direction by crossing several red lines. firstly, the recognition of micro-certifications is not included in the council recommendations, as mentioned in the text. so your invasive europeanism goes far beyond the demands of the states. the text then refers to reports which have not yet been adopted, such as the report on the new bauhaus. we do not accept this policy as a given. for us, the situation is clear: we refuse to put the fate of the french people in the hands of a europe which is responsible for social destruction and deindustrialisation, but which is still convinced that it can turn everything it touches into gold. qualifications, training and certifications must remain in the lap of the nations. with us, education will have to remain national.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the great eduardo de filippo used to say, exams are never over. so why should we stop learning, acquiring new skills or qualifications? lifelong learning should be encouraged at all levels and micro-credentials have the function of creating learning pathways that are accessible to all, in particular to disadvantaged citizens and people who have left the labour market and are unable to re-enter it. it is important, however, to ensure that this does not become a new form of unpaid work. in any case, before the system can be updated with these new introductions, the foundations of the education system must be strengthened, otherwise europe will inevitably be overtaken in the coming global challenges. we need to invest heavily in our universities, in research, in the safety of students in mixed work-school pathways and in scholarships. this new arms race, for example, and the continuing emergencies are already affecting european programmes and the financial maneuvering of countries, and there is a risk that everything will be put on the back burner, including the training of the next ruling class, which will lead europe in the future.
mr president, commissioner, education is of course very important for competence and for economic competitiveness and for the social order, after all, within the european union. of course, we have to start from the idea that education is subsidiarity, it is the competence of the member states. the question to the commission is how could the european commission, the european union, complementarily support education, and here i think there are three essential things. on the one hand, the recognition of qualifications - and i would suggest, commissioner, that at the level of the european union, we should be able to allocate budgets for studies related to vocational education and lifelong learning, because these two things are lacking in many member states, and we can come up with examples of good practice, with studies, of how to make education be based on the economic structure of each member state and, of course, that throughout the european area we should have vocational education, vocational education, which is what we need now, because we all know that we have a deficit of qualifications and, of course, the recognition of qualifications, commissioner.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our vision for the european education area is to support recovery, to stimulate system modernisation in the context of the ecological and digital transitions, and to build inclusive and resilient education and training systems. most of the 40 actions of the european education area are transversal. many of these have synergies with other eu policy frameworks and are co-created with multiple actors in the education ecosystem. for example, the european education area actions mentioned in today's discussion are also closely linked to the european skills strategy and its flagship action, the proposed council recommendation on individual training accounts. furthermore, with regard to the sustainable environment, a broad societal commitment to climate and the environment is essential for a sustainable europe and for the success of the green deal and the european climate pact. the commission welcomes the fact that we have been able to share information on progress on a continuous basis within the committee on culture and education. the first report on the state of play of the european education area is due to be published at the end of this year. in 2023, a mid-term exchange will be organised with parliament, stakeholders and civil society about what has been achieved and, of course, the next steps. in this respect, we will study with great interest your report on the establishment of a european education area by 2025. i would like to conclude by thanking you again for your support, but above all for the fact that you will still be our partner in the months and years to come - a trusted partner in building the european education area.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the following table is presented in order of appearance: see minutes of the sitting. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on combating impunity for war crimes in ukraine (2022/2655 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this debate on combating impunity for war crimes in ukraine. it is important to ensure that those who have committed and continue to commit atrocities in ukraine are held accountable for these crimes. the european union strongly condemns the military aggression by russia against ukraine. this is an unjustified aggression in violation of international law and in particular the un charter. this aggression is undermining the security and stability of our continent, but also of the whole world. we have all seen the terrible images of butcha and other cities that have been affected. we have read reports about it or, sometimes, even been in contact with people facing the situation on the ground. as you know, the union has adopted unprecedented sanctions against certain russian and belarusian individuals and companies. we also quickly set up a 'freeze and seize' task force, composed of representatives of the member states, the commission, but also of our agencies eurojust and europol. the main objective of this task force is to ensure coordination between the different actors at european and member state level for the coherent and effective implementation of these sanctions, including the rapid identification of the assets of sanctioned persons and the administrative freezing of these assets. in addition, the commission is currently preparing a proposal to extend the list of 'eurocrimes' to include infringements of eu rules on sanctions. the commission is also fully committed to ensuring that crimes committed in ukraine are properly investigated and prosecuted, so that perpetrators are held accountable. in particular, i am in contact with the minister of justice and the prosecutor general of ukraine, among others, to clarify what the ukrainian authorities need to carry out the ongoing criminal investigations, the volume and complexity of which require both considerable human and technical resources as well as specialised expertise. the ukrainian authorities have already opened more than 9 000 investigations against more than 600 suspects. i welcome the fact that 11 member states have already also opened investigations into the main international crimes committed in ukraine. a joint investigation team comprising ukraine, lithuania and poland was set up in march with the support of eurojust. the joint investigation team will be extended to estonia, latvia, the czech republic and slovakia by the end of the month. and i have continued to contact other member states to see if some of them who have already opened investigations at national level can still join this joint investigation team. eurojust also stepped up its cooperation with the international criminal court, which is now also involved in the joint investigation team, a first in the court's history. europol also provides support and expertise to the police units of the member states which specialise in war crimes. this demonstrates the crucial importance of cooperation between all the competent authorities at european, national and international levels. in order to bring the perpetrators of these war crimes to justice, it is also essential to intensify the collection of evidence in a coordinated manner. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu acquis in the field of criminal law and will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of criminal law. on 25 april, the commission adopted a legislative proposal for the amendment of the eurojust regulation. this is an important step to ensure that the agency has the necessary legal basis to receive and store evidence relating to genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. together with the genocide network, which is hosted at eurojust, the agency has the expertise to provide support to national investigations into such crimes. however, when the eurojust regulation was adopted, we did not envisage a situation of this scale. the current legal framework does not allow eurojust to support the member states with the storage and analysis of evidence of such crimes, including evidence collected by civil society organisations. the technical infrastructure of eurojust is also not prepared for the storage of such a large volume of evidence. therefore, we also need to upgrade the agency's technical infrastructure to enable eurojust to support the member states, the ukrainian authorities and the international criminal court in their investigations. against this background, the commission proposed amendments to the eurojust regulation, which would allow eurojust to receive, preserve and analyse evidence and to process additional data such as videos and audio recordings. i count on the support of your parliament to ensure that this proposal can be adopted as soon as possible. it should contribute to our common objective of holding those responsible for the crimes committed in ukraine to account and delivering justice for the victims. i would like to thank you already for our fruitful cooperation on this file so far. we need to make progress on different kinds of amendments, different kinds of regulations or new regulations, but we also need to continue to work on the ground in good collaboration with the ukrainian authorities, different authorities in the national member states, but also with the international criminal court. thank you very much for your support for that and thank you also for your attention this morning. i will listen closely to your observations.
i would like to welcome an inter-party delegation of six members of the verkhovna rada of ukraine who are following this important debate from the rostrum. their presence is a sign of our common commitment and determination to fight for our common values and ideals, to intensify our joint parliamentary work and to support ukraine on its european path. (applause from the centre)
the s&d group is calling for the commission to be given the opportunity to present a report on the situation in the european union. every day, there is a proliferation of war crimes, territorial and maritime aggressions, and systematic violations of fundamental human rights. the russian aggression in ukraine confronts us with this reality in the strongest possible terms. the horrors experienced by the ukrainian people despite their formidable resistance, the serious violations of international humanitarian law leading to massacres, rapes, abductions can be described as war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. these crimes, as you said, cannot go unpunished. it is necessary to ensure that all such evidence is collected without fail. the prosecutor of the international criminal court must be able to have at his disposal as much information as possible in order to carry out his investigation. but it is also necessary that national courts with universal jurisdiction should also be able to refer to it. but, as we know, the icc has no jurisdiction here for the crime of aggression. it is therefore necessary to fill this gap by creating a special court which would have the competence to try the russian authorities for this crime of aggression. the fight against impunity is crucial and urgent. the survival of the people is at stake. the security of the world is at stake, and it cannot and should not be governed by the savage laws of the strongest.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, war is back in europe in its most dehumanising form – a war which has gone past the battlefield, past tanks and guns, past any logic of combat. people queuing for breads are shot dead. families waiting for a bus or waiting for a train are being bombed. children are being raped. women are being raped. old men are being raped. all these people are innocent. their lives shattered. their livelihoods being stolen. these are barbaric acts, part of a sinister vision of the world that seeks to systematically break down the will and the identity of a free nation. we must fight for justice for these victims of war crimes. we must work with international institutions, with national authorities and with civic platforms to secure evidence and prepare the framework for delivering much—needed accountability. i want to thank you, commissioner, for the work that you have done with eu agencies, mobilising them, putting forward legislative frameworks to prepare for that accountability. impunity is not an option. putin must know that he and his gang will respond for the atrocities they’ve committed, and they continue to commit.
mr president, commissioner, yana stepanenko, an 11-year-old boy, was left without both legs on 8 april after the attack at the kramatorsk railway station. her mother, natalia stepanenko, 43, lost her left leg. for all these crimes against civilians there is a responsible. he has a face and a name. the main culprit for all the tragedies in ukraine bears only one name, and that is putin. and we have a political obligation to do everything in our power to bring this criminal to justice. otherwise we will not be able to defend the values on which the european union is founded.
mr. president, violent attacks are responded to with tailored strategies. repowereu is europe's way of taking the decisive step towards energy independence, but also the immediate response to the blackmail of putin's criminal regime, which has turned off the gas tap for two member states. i therefore welcome the commission's plan and the instrument that will re-energize the union. the permission given to member states to adapt their outdated nrvp to the new world. we're all going to win. my country, for example, now has a real chance to fill the gaps in the current recovery plan and to start the investments it badly needs: in offshore, in distribution infrastructure and in green energy sources. with its resources, romania will make a real contribution to european stability by becoming one of the main energy suppliers of the union. energy independence will have to be achieved as soon as possible with what we have now and with new money, so that europeans' fears disappear, energy poverty becomes a thing of the past and no one ever tries to blackmail europe again.
mr. president, belarus, unfortunately, is another state captured today and ruled by a tyrant who answers only to putin's orders. we see how he's aligned himself with this war situation and supported russia's atrocities in ukraine. and worse still, they continue to retaliate against their own citizens, in flagrant violation of human rights, and the institutionalization of terror in belarus is a wake-up call because the death penalty against anyone, any political opponent is a very serious matter and here we must act much more firmly to stop this attempt to completely paralyse this state and torture people just because they have a different opinion than this tyrant called lukashenko.
for too long, mr president, hundreds of multinational companies operating in the world and in the european union have continued to avoid their tax obligations by various legal tricks and by shifting profits made at the expense of european citizens to tax havens. all this while smes, the engine of europe's economy, are suffocated by taxes, pandemics, inflation and are struggling to survive. however, for the first time in history, we have a global agreement that no longer allows tax avoidance and that introduces a minimum tax rate of 15% for large companies. more than 130 countries, representing more than 90% of the global economy, are parties to this agreement, and the european union must ensure its correct and timely implementation. that is why i voted 'for' and i believe that the european parliament should support this commission proposal on this agreement. europe must remain an attractive market for multinationals, but only if they respect the rules that are made for everyone.
mr president, after the second world war the founding fathers created the coal and steel community because they saw it as the solution to most of the problems facing europe at the time. whatever challenges existed during the cold war, the european union responded with integration and enlargement. today, when we have a new security crisis on the european continent, i think it's essential that we understand that we can no longer remain in this trap that putin has set when he has basically turned gazprom into a weapon that he uses against europe. that's why we need energy autonomy, and i think it's time to stop the waste of money that we're making, that we're basically funding the war machine. every day, a billion euros leave for russia from the european states. that's why i think we need to focus on this energy autonomy.
mr president, commissioner, i would have liked this report to highlight the positive aspects of the eu-turkey relationship, but it seems that the aspects that bring us closer to turkey are increasingly missing. that is why i think it is essential to put the necessary pressure on ankara not to move further away from the european union. i think it is absolutely fundamental that in this context ankara no longer blocks sweden and finland's accession to nato. it is essential in the current security context, generated by russia's illegal invasion of ukraine, that we do everything we can to keep turkey on our side, because a turkey that is even more vulnerable than it is today, that tramples, unfortunately, on democracy, that disregards human rights, is not helping us at all. that is why i think the commission must insist on this line, to keep it as close as possible.
rapporteur. – mr president, the indo-pacific has become one of the centres of geopolitical gravity and a rallying point for many global players. its growing economic, demographic and political weight makes it an increasingly important region in shaping the international order. therefore, the european union must increase its efforts and step up its strategic engagement with the region. last year, first the council adopted conclusions on an eu strategy for cooperation in the indo-pacific, and then the high representative presented a communication in september last year which reflects the european union's efforts and ambitions. tomorrow, we are going to vote in this plenary on the report on the security challenges in the indo-pacific. this report, from my point of view, assesses the eu strategy with regard to the security dimension, taking into account national strategies and new developments. generally, my report focuses on four parts that are of key importance. first, in security and defence for unity among member states will be key for the eu to assert effectively our presence in the indo-pacific and to achieve the ambition of strategic sovereignty amidst the increasing competition among global and regional powers in the region. in the absence of an overarching security architecture in the indo-pacific, the european union should concentrate its efforts on maintaining a free and open indo-pacific for all and on promoting an open and rules-based regional security architecture. second, our united approach to the region must also go hand-in-hand with targeted actions aimed at building strong partnerships and security cooperation with indo-pacific countries and regional cooperation forums. to do so, we should build on a vast network of trade, partnership and cooperation agreements concluded with a large number of regional countries in the past. a close coordination with our partners in the region is especially important in order to tackle the russian war of aggression against ukraine. the third point: europe and the countries of the indo-pacific share increasingly similar challenges in a number of other security-related areas, such as cyber security, terrorism and non-proliferation. as all these challenges directly affect the eu's own security and prosperity, we need to address them in close cooperation and coordination with regional partners. a particular focus should be given to our key partners and like-minded democracies. let me name japan, south korea, australia and new zealand. last but not least, the report highlights the necessity to tackle maritime security, cyber, air and space, as well as non-traditional security challenges. to conclude, let me thank the shadow rapporteurs from all the different political groups and also the team of the high representative for a really good, constructive and fruitful cooperation on where drafting and working on this report.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, i replace the high representative vice-president josep borrell for this debate and make the following statement on his behalf. let me thank rapporteur mcallister and all meps who have contributed to this report. i fully share the views expressed in the report that the eu has a vital geopolitical and economic interest in the stability and prosperity of the indo-pacific region. europe and the indo-pacific region are highly interconnected. what happens in the indo-pacific has important implications for europe and vice versa. the region produces 60% of global gdp and is the second largest destination of eu exports. together, the indo-pacific and europe account for over 70% of global trade in goods and services and over 60% of foreign direct investment flows. at the same time, a new centre of global competition has emerged in the indo-pacific, adding to increasing tensions on trade and supply chains. we live in an era of strategic rivalries and complex security threats. military spending in the region has risen like nowhere else in the world. the display of force and increasing tensions in regional hotspots, such as in the south and east china sea and in the taiwan strait, may have a direct impact on europe’s security and prosperity. today, the eu and its indo-pacific partners are facing similar challenges. hybrid and cyber security threats. disinformation and weaponisation of economic independence. the eu values-driven approach seeking cooperation beyond geopolitical divides and great power rivalries make us a reliable partner, including with the asean, in navigating and supporting regional stability in the indo-pacific. through its indo-pacific strategy, the eu will seek to enhance regional security that is open and based on the rule of law, including secure sea routes and enhanced naval presence in the indo-pacific. in february, we announced the extension of the concept of coordinated maritime presence, the so-called cmp, to the north-western indian ocean. this extension would allow the optimisation of the use of assets that eu member states are deploying in the region. in line with the eu indo-pacific strategy, the strategic compass is very clear about the willingness to build sustainable and proactive partnerships to enhance our presence in this region. the war in ukraine has also redefined the eu’s global geopolitical role, including in this region. as your report highlighted in the wake of the ukraine war, the eu’s indo-pacific strategy is more relevant than ever. it is also more relevant than ever to maintain a free and open indo-pacific for all, while building strong and lasting partnerships. our approach is one of cooperation, not confrontation. our commitment to the indo-pacific region is inclusive of all partners wishing to cooperate with the eu. we will deepen our engagement with the like-minded partners that already have indo-pacific approaches of their own. let me conclude by welcoming the high-level dialogue on the indo-pacific that will be organised on 13 and 14 june by the upcoming czech presidency of the council. thank you very much for your attention.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the world was already split before the war in ukraine. democracies respecting a rules-based world order on one side are increasingly at odds with autocracies with no regard to international law, territorial integrity, no consideration for human lives or basic rights and freedoms. but we still operate on the world scene with the naive impression that trade and economic interdependencies are sufficient for maintaining regional stability or global security. so we remain ambivalent. we spoke softly against those disregarding our values, against human rights abuses by countries with which we did good business, or against forced labour as an economic growth model. with this report, we are sending a wake-up call. we must stop being ambivalent in the indo-pacific. that means taking sides, pursuing our strategic interests, and being outspoken against breaches of our values. on one hand, we must stand much closer by democratic allies in the indo-pacific. and we have many. we must support their drive for democracy, for prosperity and for stability in the region even more. and on the other hand, we must look the reality of our relations with china in the eye. pretending there is no war in ukraine or continuing trade with moscow is something we must disentangle from all broad economic interactions. that is what being geopolitical is all about.
mr president, commissioner, i too congratulate mr mcallister on the very good report he has produced. i'm just insisting on a matter of the utmost importance. the united states needs to have a partner of equal importance, such as the european union, in this region, and we need to be there as quickly as possible, with all our might. we have a strategic objective to achieve, which is to guarantee our partners that we are able to develop a partnership based on cooperation in the interests of both parties. the war in our region has brought new challenges to us, which is why we must step forward and become more and more involved in this region.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, the own-initiative report which we are to adopt during this part-session is the starting point of a process which is vital for the future of the island territories of the european union. for a quarter of a century, the programming periods of the european union's regional development policy have followed one another without any improvement in the situation on the islands. this is verified through macroeconomic indicators such as gdp, unemployment rate, poverty line and others. but this is especially true in the continuing increase in imbalances affecting the island economies as a whole. more and more services, mostly tourism-related, but less and less industry, less and less agriculture, less and less young people and graduates, less and less research and innovation. the covid crisis has shown that islands are more vulnerable territories than others, and that their current economic model, which european policies objectively fuel, is leading these territories into a dead end. in 25 years, where will we be if we continue like this? in 25 years, it'll be all tourism. the agricultural depression will leave our ecosystems exposed to fires and natural disasters. the rich cultural diversity that each island brings to europe will be extinguished and biodiversity severely damaged. even tourism will then decline, having failed to preserve a balanced and resilient society to welcome it. we must change our policy towards the islands of the european union. the report makes constructive and sensible proposals to this end. it states an inescapable truth: insularity is a permanent structural handicap which must be compensated for. the cumulative effects of insularity must be taken into account by means of differentiated regulations which establish a genuine equality between island economic operators and their counterparts on the mainland. this is the european action plan, the pact for the islands, which we are asking the commission to implement by implementing article 174 of the lisbon treaty.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on behalf of the conservative group, i would first like to express my appreciation of the excellent work done in preparing this report and to thank in particular all the colleagues who have worked on it, starting with president omarjee. it is certainly a very important moment, because the aim is to give real effect to article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, but not only that, but also to create a strong stimulus for the member states to understand the relevance and importance of this issue. to do this, we must first identify the fundamental issues affecting the islands, from depopulation to natural disasters, to basic services, transport and health, and then try to put in place a clear and obvious strategy to provide adequate responses. in addition, there is a need to modernise basic services and core activities from a production point of view. i am referring to agriculture, fisheries and tourism. to do this we need to do important and concrete work, especially in finalising the choices that must be made in the field from the point of view of coordination, as i said earlier, between the policies of the european union and those of the member states. this will not be possible with cohesion policies alone, but it will require joint action in synergy with all other intervention programmes to achieve this. tomorrow we shall be voting with conviction on this report, which will be a start, because there is certainly still a lot of work to be done for the future of the islands of the european union.
the rapporteur, mr omarjee, the commissioner and the president. 20 million europeans live on 2400 islands in 13 countries, and many of these islands are facing demographic problems as young people leave. natural obstacles such as distance, mountainousness, as well as a number of natural disasters such as fires, and not least the sight of the island of la palma, where volcanic activity has caused real devastation, indicate the problems the islands are dealing with. agriculture, fishing, tourism are the main activities that usually provide an opportunity to earn a living. it is right that in our european policies, too, when we talk about digitalisation today, we think about the connectivity of these islands, e-health, how to use digitalisation in tourism, the energy challenges - we will talk about the fit for 55 package this week - also give an opportunity for renewable resources and all this must be given special attention on the islands, as well as higher co-financing. mr. rapporteur, i'm happy to support your report.
mr president, commissioner, i congratulate my colleague rapporteur omarjee and welcome the debate on this important report. for several years now, in the european parliament, we have been fighting for europe's islands and islanders, almost 20 million of them on 2400 inhabited islands, but we can do more and do better at both european and national level. the methodology and all relevant commission proposals must start to consider insolarity as a factor, and member states must support and implement such proposals in their national programmes. we already have the legislative basis for this in article 174 of the lisbon treaty, and we have an example of good practice - a special percentage for islands in the just transition fund. developing islands lag behind the mainland by an average of about 20 percent. the availability of public services is significantly lower, the prices of products are higher. they are dependent on an often inadequate connection to the mainland for transport and energy, and economically mainly on seasonal unsustainable tourism. but we should not just talk about problems, but also about opportunities for development. the pilot project on the island's energy transition has proven that islands can be leaders in the process of green transition at european level. a similar innovative model should be applied to other aspects of their development. the cohesion policy, the 55- ready package and the resilience and development mechanism should be financial platforms. islands don't live only in the summer. islanders deserve equal living conditions and year-round access to services. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the european union, but especially in the committee on regional development, of which i am vice-president, we have a motto: 'leaving no one behind' and i thank you, commissioner, for mentioning this in your introductory speech. and so we try to do that with every report, with every opinion. we need to identify the challenges of all regions and find the strengths to ensure that all european citizens have the development, a decent standard of living, to which they are entitled by their membership of the european union. the islands may be far away from many of us, but they can be a benchmark for climate change and the measures we take to combat it and at the same time for social welfare and the effectiveness of the programmes we develop. we need a closer link with the islands and the outlying territories. we need to find ways to increase economic, social, cultural exchanges, and last but not least, we need to take into account the specificities of these island regions when we think about measures for energy independence, for agriculture and local consumption, for pollution reduction.
madam president, commissioner, i want the life of every european citizen to be protected. i'm an emergency physician in iasi at the nicolae oblu emergency clinical hospital, and i treat the effects of these toxic substances, a wide range of pathologies, and my questions are clear. the targets are extremely generous. but i also want to know who will check and how will these objectives be put into practice, and on the other hand who will dose and identify these substances and how. and commissioner, are you thinking of an independent network of centres to provide these assessments? because we're kind of tired of having a double standard and one being on one side of the european union and the other being on the other side.
madam president, dear colleagues, we were supposed to vote this plenary on one more year extension of the digital covid certificate, but the vote was postponed for the next plenary session. the fact that we are still talking about extending this certificate for another year just proves, once again, that this measure was not intended to go to combat covid, but to lead the european union from an area of freedom, as the treaty states, to a digital tyranny. due to this certificate, millions of europeans could not exercise their basic fundamental rights unless they were injected against their will with medical products that were tested for a short period of time. we see now many of the vaccinated people who suffer side effects from these medical products, including fatalities. we were elected by the people to serve them in this parliament and to make laws to protect them, not to violate their rights or to expose them to health risks, including fatalities. i urge you, therefore, to vote against extending the digital covid certificate and to make eu once again an area of freedom, not a tyranny or an area of restrictions.
madam president, the people, the workers, are faced with a brutal increase in the cost of living. the sharp rise in inflation has a more significant impact on the prices of fuel and energy or basic foodstuffs. prices rise, wages fall, millions of people tighten their belts even more. an increase in the cost of living is inseparable from the spiral of sanctions that the european union has been imposing, sacrificing the interests of the countries and peoples of europe in its strategy of instigating conflict, which serves only the large economic groups that, by promoting exploitation and speculation, make profits at the expense of increasing exploitation and the impoverishment of workers. the deep dependence on the outside world in key sectors is quite plain to see. another policy of general increases in wages, pensions, entitlements, the enhancement of public services and support for national production, public control of strategic sectors, facing the eu's impositions and ensuring development and national sovereignty is required.
(the beginning of the speech is heard outside the microphone) ...three crises are striking europe and the world at the same time, one overlapping the other. the climate crisis, the covid pandemic and the consequences of the war in ukraine. the world is struggling with a shortage of oil, natural gas and coal, the traditional sources of energy. this is just the beginning, and i see the world economy may be heading for a crisis unlike anything we've seen since the early 1970s. unlike previous crises, this one is an oil, gas and electricity crisis all at once. that is why it is so important how we vote on this week's crucial reports here in the european parliament. we will vote on decisions that must pursue three priorities at once: decarbonisation, energy security and competitiveness. the energy transition must be fair, otherwise we will lose the trust and support of the citizens.
madam president, commissioner, i ask you again to introduce health education as a compulsory subject in schools in europe. know that it can make the difference between life and death, and we've seen in this pandemic, we see in what it means for the rise in cancer, the incidence of cardiovascular disease, that without effective prevention measures these things cannot be corrected. maybe we need to finally have the initiative at the level of the european parliament for this extremely important project to be put into practice, and i'll remind myself of what a great romanian writer marin preda said in his last novel, "the most beloved of earthlings", that if there is no love, there is nothing, i will say that if there is no health, there is nothing, and obviously if there is no education, there is no health. it is simple, easy to implement and it must become a european problem, which has solutions and can be easily, extremely easily solved. but unfortunately the european parliament does not yet have the right of initiative.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the beginning of summer and we are seeing the price of fuel and energy rise by the day. in the summer these increases will be felt more or less, but we must be very aware that with the coming of the autumn and especially in the coming winter, the population of the entire european union will suffer a lot from this difficult situation, all the more so as we still have states that have not applied any social protection measures to combat the rise in prices. we can't just look the other way and say it's none of our business. all eu citizens are our business, no matter where they live. that is why i think it is particularly important that we tackle this issue now, as soon as possible, and find solutions that apply in all member states. the energy crisis affects us all, especially since we already have so many people and households who can't pay their energy bills and won't be able to afford to heat their homes.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us imagine the following: - the first: a small country house, home to a large family with four children. the only source of heat is the wood. the income is not even enough to cover even the basic needs of the family, let alone provide the necessary stock of firewood. therefore, they survive in the cold. - another situation: a two-bedroom apartment in bucharest, the european capital. both husbands work all day, but the money they earn is not enough to cover bills that have increased three or four times overnight. the only solution: lower the temperature in the house to the lowest possible level. we think these are isolated situations, but no, it's the reality that millions of people live in. energy poverty is a real problem. most romanians in rural areas only use wood for heating in the cold season. in the urban environment at least 5 million romanians have experienced real drama every month, because they could not afford to pay their bills. what will they do in the winter? these are the concerns that must be on our minds every day. let's think about them.
madam president, mr vice-president, there is no french minister to greet, obviously, they will have been permanently absent from this presidency of the european union. we have a tremendous opportunity, with border carbon adjustment, to finally have a climate policy that matches our carbon footprint by taking into account imports. besides, it's a great opportunity to form a virtuous circle. our industry is going to innovate, innovate in low carbon. potentially, we're going to re-industrialize, create jobs around fighting climate change. but for that, we have to be up to speed in implementing carbon adjustment at the borders. and, mr vice-president, you know it yourself, the commission knows it, the court of auditors knows it, these free allowances have been rotting our climate ambition for years and years. they're eating away at the ability of industry to innovate, to have revenue to fund the climate transition. so, at that point, i call my colleagues. we must vote as the environment committee did on the 2030 deadline for the end of free quotas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. let us rise to the challenge, let us stand with the european commission and, i hope, with the council at some point, on an ambition that is up to the climate challenge.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that almost everyone in this house is convinced of the need for a lasting transition for the european union. europe can and must play a leading role in this. but what i see is not a europe that is leading the way, but a europe that is in danger of overtaking itself. the transition must be more than just sustainable. it must also provide the necessary security and be affordable. ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation of war, of great geopolitical turmoil, an energy crisis and worryingly high inflation. against this very unstable background, the commission is seeking to achieve great ambitions and parliament has a tendency to add to them. but those plans cost a lot of money and there's no such thing as a free lunch. are we going to increase the burden on citizens and businesses? the resources available are not endless, difficult choices are inevitable, and it would take political courage to say that out loud and honestly.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the proposal for the carbon package would have protected eu companies that produce green and therefore more expensive in five commodity sectors against foreign companies that produce in environmentally harmful ways at lower prices and thus gain an unfair competitive advantage. the ep then showed how a good initiative can be made untenable despite the outcry of the european companies involved and the common sense that this parliament wants to destroy europe's competitiveness. carbon is a pioneering proposal, so first, we'd need a long enough trial period to see what works and what doesn't. and when the system is proven, that's the best time to think about expanding it. the proposal has a price-push effect, which, with inflation already soaring, would only increase the difficulties of companies and make european exports more expensive. in the middle of a war, are you sure we need this? and the forced withdrawal of free quotas would only increase the burden on companies. the proposal in its present form would therefore do more harm than good. we must protect european companies, not banish industry from the continent.
madam president, dear vice—president, dear colleagues, the eu effort to protect the environment and climate has already lasted for decades. increasing climate risks, global agreements on one hand, and technological improvement of development on the other hand, requires urgently speeding up our effort. i guess this is entirely logical and this is right. so from the green deal, we have got to climate law as a binding commitment for us and to implement this commitment fit for 55. we went through very intense debate about all the packages and now it’s time to vote. from my perspective, there are two goals. the first is that we must make sure that fit for 55 is fit for 55, not fit for 50, not fit for 48, but for 55. that is, for me, the first objective. the second, also very important, is to guide the economy and society through transition in such a way that there will be the highest added value possible for the citizens and for businesses, and that those that are vulnerable will be protected as well as possible. i hope we will deliver this result in the vote this week and, more importantly, that this will be the result of the trilogue.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about the "fit for 55" package, and all its elements are important; and this debate does not do justice to each element equally. let me mention a large group of people that we haven't talked about today, who are absolutely critical to achieving the climate goals: these are the workers who make sure that carbon-free products are made, that industries become carbon-free. we in the socialist group simply want to keep industry in the european union and to ensure that decarbonisation proceeds as quickly as possible. and that is exactly what is happening to the working people. in the committee on the environment, our liberal and epp colleagues have unfortunately rejected the strengthening of the rights of workers in the ets system. i hope that tomorrow's vote will be different, because we need exactly these people for a just transformation. we have therefore proposed that greater attention be paid to the transformation of education and training. we want the ets revenues to not only benefit companies, but also to finance compliance with labour standards and participation rights. and we want to see that workers are urgently involved in the restructuring. why would you do that? because they have an interest in keeping their jobs, and they make better decisions than companies that are just looking at shareholder value, so to speak. and let me also say something about the ets-2 system. it was only because of pressure from my group that we were able to get an ets-2 system that was not a social explosive. we've reached a cost-cutting agreement. we have got private households to be involved later, that there is a brake. the ets-2 system, as proposed by the rapporteur earlier, would have been social explosives in the european union at that time. with the social climate fund, which the european commission has thankfully proposed, we are now making sure that we leave no one behind. and speaking of leaving no one behind, the same goes for the automotive industry. it's right to run out the incinerator for new vehicles in 2035. and it would be wrong to rely on synthetic fuels that we don't have, that are far too expensive and that suggest a transformation path that doesn't exist. let's use our last chance. let's keep the 1.5-degree goal in reach. let's vote tomorrow for an ambitious climate law package.
madam president, mr timmermans, minister zacharopoulou, i want to speak on behalf of millions of young people in romania and across europe today. it has been three years since we have spoken in this house, in the european parliament, about the european green deal, three years in which we have witnessed the hottest summer in european history - i am talking about 2021 - and deadly floods and devastating droughts. three villages in the south of romania, where i come from - călărași, sărata and dăbuleni, in dolj county - receive tap water only in the morning and evening, on schedule. people are getting water rationed because of the drought. scientists are screaming desperately at us, because we have the highest carbon dioxide level in the last four million years. this is not a joke. let's face it, because this is the future of the younger generation here. yes, putting a price on carbon is no easy task, but europe has two decades of experience with it. it's not a new thing, it's something we're good at. we have experience. commissioner, in theory we are ambitious, but the reality is that in recent years we have spent only 13% of the eu budget on climate change. we can't afford this anymore. let's be truly climate leaders. today, together, we renounce borrowing from the days and lives of youth. i give up on borrowing from my 2-year-old daughter's life. that's what we're talking about today, we're talking about their future.
madam president, this week will vote on key legislation to reduce emissions and to build a just transition. but let’s be frank, with us and with the citizens: all in all, this package will not allow us to reach our climate targets committed under the paris agreement. the social climate fund is a glimmer of hope in this package. in the light of war-driven energy prices, it is more important than ever to share the cost and to make this transition fair. i am therefore pleased that, for the first time, we propose clear eu wide definitions of energy and mobility poverty. this fund will give direct financial support to those who need it the most. and what's more, it will allow member states to make structural investment in public transport and building renovations to effectively lift households out of poverty and build a more green future. but let me add to this fund should be social, not business-oriented. for smes, there are other programmes available, so let's invest here directly in the people and not for the companies!
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in the current context of alarmingly high energy prices and inflation, the social climate fund is more important than ever. the energy transition will only succeed if all europeans can make the transition, not just the lucky few who can afford it. that's why we need a social climate fund, which will be one of the tools to ensure that everyone is able to make the energy transition and stop depending on russian gas and oil. taking into account the geopolitical circumstances, it is essential to maintain a level of co-financing at least similar to that existing in cohesion policies. in addition, it is essential to take into account the different starting points and the wide-ranging reforms that member states need to carry out in order to contribute to the european union's climate objective. for romania, my country, it is very important to support the financing of natural gas projects together with nuclear energy, as they are essential for the replacement of coal. ambitious measures at european level must be fair, sustainable and socially acceptable and not deepen economic disparities between member states.
mr president, dear colleagues, when ursula von der leyen campaigned in this plenary in 2019 to be elected president of the european commission, she promised a stronger european union that provides more prosperity for its citizens. almost three years after that, we see a weaker europe and more poor europeans than before. we have millions of europeans who cannot make it from one month to another due to increase of energy, food and fuel price. one of the main causes of this crisis is von der leyen’s social—engineering, utopian, unrealistic and unfactual—based plan to combat the so-called carbon emissions. and i quote: ‘emissions must have a price that changes our behaviour’, ursula said in this plenary in 2019. we see now that her objective from the beginning was not to combat carbon emissions, but to change our behaviour through higher taxes and higher prices. i urge you, therefore, to vote against fit for 55 plan, which will lead to more poverty and it will make eu less competitive on the global market.
mr president, mr vice-president timmermans, reducing carbon emissions has become an obligation for us and i think that if you do not understand what the planet is exposed to, you are not advocating the objectives that the commission has set itself and you do not understand them. that is why i believe it is essential that the commission accelerates along this line it has undertaken, so that citizens, on the one hand, understand the stakes of the new transformations, because technology helps us to adapt our economies to the new realities that do not pollute. on the other hand, it's essential to understand that the security risks we're exposed to no longer allow us to remain in this trap that putin has set for all of europe. that is why i insist that we need to be firm in action so that we can achieve all our goals.
in writing. i voted against the report which provided for the phasing out of free allowances for sectors covered by the future carbon border adjustment mechanism. i welcome the rejection of it in the plenary vote and the referral back to the enabled committee on the environment for a thorough analysis based on impact studies and realistic forecasts. in the form proposed, european industry would have been doomed to practically disappear, as the environmental objectives did not take into account the economic and social impact of the measures planned in a completely unrealistic timetable. i would like to criticise the lack of flexibility of the report's promoters and their inability to conduct a dialogue and negotiation that reflects the interests and concerns of all member states. that is why we voted on national delegations in the first place, not on political groups as usual. in this context, i welcome the initiative of the rapporteur on the carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) to withdraw his own report from a vote which would also have been a losing one, following the outcome of the ets vote.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many people are concerned about the climate, and so am i. i'm seriously worried about that, too. i support the paris agreement, and i also voted for the green deal to be climate neutral by 2050. we must also reduce our dependence on energy imports as the european union. what the war in ukraine is showing now is that we cannot provide energy ourselves and that we are dependent on countries like russia. this has to stop. so we need to invest in renewable and sustainable energy such as wind and solar and hydro, but also, for example, biogas from agricultural manure, and nuclear energy. we need to encourage innovation to ensure that companies produce more sustainably with less carbon emissions. the european system of trading in co2 emission allowances is a good system. it's a market-driven system that has proven to work. there's just a leak. companies are still faced with importing products that are not as clean, that are not as sustainable, but that are sold cheaply here in our market. we need to patch that leak. and that's why i'm a big supporter of a new system, the carbon border adjustment mechanism, to close that gap. but not just for the import. it is also important that our companies are protected in the same way when they export to other countries outside the european union. and that's what i'm missing in the proposal right now. i would therefore like to see the european parliament and the european commission look into this. climate action costs money. and we've already set up several funds to make that transition happen in a good way. we have several funds and now there is talk of a new fund. i can understand that. but please look at the existing funds first and do not set up a new fund that has a very different system to the existing one. it is also important that we start investing money in actual co2 reductions and not in, for example, direct revenues. and then to the cars. i am the lead negotiator and rapporteur on behalf of the european parliament on the co2 standards for cars. and what i've found very important from the beginning is that we don't make driving impossible for people back home. but if we're not careful, driving can get very expensive. look at what the fuel prices are doing right now. in addition, disincentives have been introduced - for example, through taxes - to make driving less attractive. and we can only do that if there's an alternative for people to drive clean. i'm all for it. i want to see innovation that gives people the ability to drive and do something about the climate at the same time. this proposal will ensure that the 20% of european co2 emissions caused by road transport can be greatly reduced. the co2 emissions from the transport sector are still growing. if we want to make the transport sector climate neutral by 2050, we need to act now. and because the average life of a car is 15 years, we have to do that in 2035. so we're not just doing this to do something about climate change, but when we invest in clean and zero-emission cars, it's also good for the air quality in cities, but also in rural areas. it also affects the dependence on fossil fuels. we want to get off fossil fuels as soon as possible. this is a very important tool to ensure that we are less dependent on fossil fuels and energy imports. and last but certainly not least, what is very important to me is that driving remains affordable as well. at the moment, driving an electric car is cheaper than driving a diesel or petrol combustion engine in many countries. also, the maintenance of zero-emission cars is much cheaper. the big problem at the moment is the high cost of buying such clean cars, for example electric cars. however, the purchase price has already fallen dramatically in recent years and in some countries the total cost of driving a battery-powered car is already lower than driving a combustion engine and this will only become more favourable in the future. what i want to do with this proposal is to make it clear to both industry and people at home that our commitment is to develop clean cars and that there is investment security for that, that we are going to encourage innovation and that companies no longer have to bet on different horses, but that this is the way out, that we can provide a cheaper alternative. the european parliament has decided by a large majority that we want to combat climate change. i think that is the vast majority here, including among colleagues. but then we must also be prepared to implement those measures. tomorrow is a super important day, and i want to call on you to take that responsibility tomorrow and also to stand up for the promise to do something about climate change.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this week's theme is the triad of meeting our climate goals, the living conditions of future generations and the competitiveness of our economy. by 2050, we want to be climate neutral, which means reducing co2 and removing co2 from the atmosphere. our goal is balance. our forests, our soils, our moors actively contribute to this balance by capturing and storing co2. the use of sustainable raw materials in products extends the storage time. i want to promote this positive climate effect, empower our agriculture and forestry to do more to protect the climate and fight climate change. what i don't want is to create a climate policy that looks good on paper but will only shift emissions. everyone and everyone talks about carbon leakage, but it's also about wood and food leakage. we want to replace fossil products with sustainable ones, so we want to promote a bio-based economy. we need local wood for that. it cannot be easier or cheaper to import timber from canada than to boost the local economy. we have therefore tabled a number of amendments to the envi decision in order to improve lulucf further.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, it is good that europe is ambitious in climate policy. it is the only way forward. we should be ambitious, but also realistic. carbon leakage must be avoided to preserve european competitiveness. environmental, economic and social sustainability must all be taken into account. if implemented correctly, the fit for 55 package can both reduce emissions and also generate growth. we need technology-neutral legislation which encourages investments in all kinds of viable clean energy solutions, such as nuclear and bioenergy. the ets should remain as a market based tool to guide these investments. the main focus of the package should stay on stopping our dependency on fossil fuels. this is the most efficient way to reduce emissions. carbon sinks play an important but limited role in the process. lulucf targets should be supported as proposed by the commission. at the same time, we must enable sustainable use of forests and recognise also the possibilities of bio-based solutions in replacing fossil based materials.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, madam representative of the council, mr first vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the itre committee, i would like to reiterate the position it has largely supported on the issue of car emissions. we do not think that a ban on thermal vehicles by 2035 is desirable for four reasons. firstly, from an environmental point of view, measuring exhaust emissions is not relevant. it does not allow for an overall reduction in emissions. instead, it is the balance of emissions over the life cycle that must be taken into account. there are high uncertainties about the availability of critical metals supply, the origin and the amount of electricity available, which are additional problems. we must also defend technological neutrality, which guarantees innovation and the diversity of future solutions, and also because the societal consequences will be harsh for the most fragile and unequal in our different member states. finally, we will lose hundreds of thousands of jobs across europe, in what is precisely a centre of competitiveness and excellence for european industry. maintaining the minimum threshold of 90% ensures a better balance between our environmental, social and economic imperatives. sending a strong political signal is only good if the signal itself is good. the first is that we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy, and that it is the world's largest exporter of food and drink.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, commissioner timmermans, you are a very good man. unfortunately, this zero-emission thing isn't going to happen any time soon, and for that reason, we all feel like we're living in some not-so-smart joke. commissioner timmermans, the increase in energy prices started long before the war in ukraine. it has its repercussions, of course, but the main culprit for raising the price is also in this room, in this building, and in general in the european institutions, which are imposing a new utopia and political religion called "greenism". with a bolshevik fury, the people who serve this cult stop at nothing. they don't hear that nuclear energy is safe, nor do they notice the geopolitics that clearly show that our competitors are not giving up their fossil fuels. the biggest polluters don't want to be part of this conversation, and you expect the poorest europeans and the poorer people to pay the price. of course, this will also have a very severe impact on transportation. it's going to deprive thousands of people of the ability to move forward in their own lives. and that's part of this cult, too. it's bound to backfire on those who impose this green, harmful pseudo-utopia.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, scientists give us three years, three years to avoid rising temperatures, three years to avoid rising costs, but above all air pollution. and it is up to us to decide now, in this house. either we let the earth burn, or we're up to the climate challenge. then let's stop procrastinating and get to the point. we have an opportunity to make this historic shift, to end the sale of petrol and diesel cars in europe by 2035 and finally to meet the paris agreement. we have two choices. we can adopt this road map tomorrow to ban thermal cars from 2035. so it will take 13 years to accompany industry in this revolution. this is an exceptional challenge, which is in line with the climate challenge, the social challenge to develop the sectors. and this sector, as we know, is very important in europe. or we drop out of the game and that's the social breakdown we're guaranteed against the competition. so don't listen to the sirens of the lobbyists of some car manufacturers, fossil fuel industries that bombard you with emails and calls. don't give in to it! tomorrow, be proud to vote for climate and jobs. it will be a just transition to a decarbonised economy. and we will always stand by the workers so that no site is closed, no jobs are lost and we will finally draw the road map for a new industry, one that is worthy of the 21st century.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on regional development. mr president, madam secretary of state, dear chrysoula, mr executive vice-president timmermans, dear colleagues, in the effort to slow down or even stop climate change we all have to contribute, because this change affects us all. some member states have already taken a number of measures to reduce pollution, while others still have to recover in economic and social development, in the construction of infrastructure of various types. these joint efforts must take into account that member states do not start from the same point and that the level of development is very different. adapting these measures is the only way to make these regulations a success. we need to strike a balance between environmental measures and economic and social development in order to have the support and involvement of the population, economic operators and local authorities. and that's what i've been advocating as coordinator in the regional development committee. environmental measures must be able to be seen and approached as a progress that will help communities, and not as a burden, as an obstacle to the well-being of europeans. so it is important how these regulations are voted and also the support that member states and local authorities have in understanding and implementing correctly the measures that we will be voting on here in the european parliament.
in writing. farmers and forest owners must become our true partners in the transition to climate neutrality and for this reason it is absolutely necessary to establish new business models and new sources of income for farmers and forest owners interested in carbon cultivation. basically, carbon farming will financially reward practices that either reduce greenhouse gas emissions or capture those gases in agricultural soils and forests. in this context, in my amendments to the proposal for the revision of the lulucf regulation, i asked the commission to present a legal framework that allows for the combination of public funding, such as the common agricultural policy, with private funding from companies that want to reduce their carbon footprint, to ultimately ensure an attractive source of income for farmers and forest owners interested in growing carbon. carbon cultivation generates positive effects on climate and the environment along with numerous related benefits for farmers. specifically, a buildup of carbon in soil in organic form makes it more fertile and resilient, requiring less fertilizer, water and pesticides, and ultimately producing a richer, healthier crop.
madam president, putin's war is a war against our values. it is time for the european union to respond with a decisive leap towards a new paradigm, that of the active player, to move from petitioning for broken relations to the role of foreign policy maker, to become capable of resolving conflicts and anticipating dangers. the new foreign policy of the union must not begin after the end of the war, but now, for example, immediately, with strong messages to bring our neighbours and partners closer together, to whom we have promised but not delivered, a hand outstretched, a strong hand to those states that have shown their willingness to adhere to our values, who are having difficulty moving towards democracy with a neighbour like russia and whose only wish today is to escape from this siberian night that is dangerously close at hand. and we must never forget the lesson that these times teach us, that partners are not only to be remembered in times of conflict, but especially in times of peace, with fewer words and more promises, fulfilled on time.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs. i think it's a visionary document that sets out some precise objectives that the european union needs to have in our relationship with ukraine, at least at this stage. the ukrainian citizens decided from the moment they signed the association agreement that they wanted to get closer to the european union. russia's response was the annexation of crimea. now that the ukrainian citizens have decided that they want a real rapprochement with the european union and nato, putin has sanctioned us and invaded. for the kremlin there has never been any respect for this country. that is why the european union's response to the expectations of the ukrainian people must be integration as soon as possible. we cannot find solutions in the medium and long term. they require answers now, because this country is being invaded today.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ever since the european union was created, the answer to all crises has been more integration and even enlargement. i believe that even now, in the face of the challenges that the russian federation has thrown at us, the answer is still enlargement, still more integration. and i say this because in the republic of moldova, mr vice-president dombrovskis, the majority of citizens over 50% decided in last year's elections to support a single party, created by the current president of the republic of moldova, maia sandu and so there is a majority of over 60% with a clear pro-european agenda. the european union's response must be the prospect of the republic of moldova joining the european union, because what the commission needs to know is that 50% of the population of the republic of moldova already holds european union citizenship and we must respond to this expectation.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council, the choices made by the council are important in view of the strategic moment, above all because they reaffirm a fundamental concept, which is to continue on the path of unity. that is why we also appreciate the efforts being made to find solutions from the point of view of unity in the conflict, to condemn forcefully and decisively the action taken by russia and also and above all to highlight, as we are trying to do in every way, solutions which can go into the clear possibility of a strong response. in this sense, the attempt to find a synthesis in the context of the approval, for example, of the pnr of poland is exactly the opposite of what mr lamberts has said so far, and we appreciate and consider it to be a useful effort in the dialogue to try to enhance the work done. that said, two basic considerations on food security and energy. we are paying for mistakes made over the years and we must avoid making the same mistakes today. on food security - president von der leyen said so and i want to repeat it - we risk being used as an instrument by russia, setting in motion a strategy which can exacerbate the instrumental use of immigration, because if food tensions flare up in north africa, the consequences will be for europe. we need to give adequate answers in this respect, but we must also do so by making different choices from the mistakes that have been made in the past. the whole categories and the whole system of agricultural production cannot be discussed. similarly, on the environment and energy issues we must start from the mistakes that have been made in the past, because if we have a dependency today, obviously there have been mistakes that need to be corrected today, and a series of choices that this parliament and the commission are proposing in parallel, i think of fit for 55, risk appearing to be in contradiction with the effort and the objective that we must put in place. that is why we fully support the sanctions, but above all we want to do so by making this as comprehensible as possible to our citizens, otherwise we risk being overwhelmed by contradiction and reaction. i also say this by supporting the efforts and commitments on the defence front, by imagining and expressing a clear position in support of the accession of sweden and finland to nato, and on the strategy that must be put into practice because we are playing a game of perspective on this terrain. that is why our group is strongly calling for the reversal of some of the choices and for the recognition that the mistakes made in the past must be corrected in the future strategy in order to give the european citizens adequate answers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. the food price explosion is a serious problem, especially for lower-income households and families. the price of butter has risen by 40% in the last year, and the price of fruit and vegetables by 20%. the price of bread is skyrocketing, and the doner around the corner is now 6 euros. i don't want children to be sent to school at the end of the month without a break for lunch because the money in the families is not enough. i therefore call on the european governments, mr michel, firstly, to prohibit food speculation so that not a few speculators can deliberately enrich themselves on the hunger of the many, secondly, to reduce vat on basic foodstuffs to zero, and thirdly, to offer free kindergarten and school meals, as is already the case in some european countries. because you can't learn on an empty stomach. the european union must be able to take action to combat the spread of this disease. but you can't drive out the devil with beelzebub. dependence on one authoritarian regime cannot be resolved by dependence on other dictatorships. the solution lies in bold and rapid investments in the energy transition. if the oil industry is to be turned around soon, then we need a clear development perspective for the dependent regions. we need job guarantees for the workers in schwedt or leuna, for example, in eastern germany, my home region. we can't leave people out in the rain. but if we leave them out in the rain, mrs von der leyen, we will not create acceptance for the energy transition. people need to be able to turn on the lights at the end of the month, watch tv or cook something. and so to stop the price explosion in the energy sector, we need an energy price cap now. at current prices, at current price trends, the big oil and gas companies worldwide will make an extra profit of up to a trillion euros this year alone. they are making a foolish profit. and if we want to help the common people, then we should ask the crisis winners to the cashier. we need a tax on profits everywhere in europe, including germany.
mr. president, your excellences, every package of sanctions against russia announced by the european institutions is presented as "unprecedented" and is meant to put pressure on putin, but this antichrist is resisting. every russian hydrocarbon import to the european union countries fuels the kremlin's war machine with 800 million euros a day, which has to stop. this is unacceptable. we block one side and fund the other. it's not right and it seems like pure hypocrisy. it's like an invitation for putin to continue a crazy war. we're feeding him water and feeding him dementia. who's next? my country, romania, has a 650-kilometer border with ukraine, plus over 120 kilometers to the black sea. we are assured that it will not attack nato countries, that it will not be the republic of moldova. the truth is, we only suspect that. the republic of moldova is in an energy blackmail zone and needs to be extracted from the pressure to abandon its euro-atlantic orientation. goethe said that for any achievement the first step is courage. let us have the courage to end the indirect funding of war. it's hard, but the pyramids were hard to build. our industry must look for alternatives to russian energy supplies. right away! do we have this courage or do we pat ourselves on the back, satisfied that we've beautifully mimicked the action?
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. you speak to me clearly as a man. you speak to me clearly as a woman. you speak to me as a man who can take a side leap, who can have sex, who can have unprotected sex, but never has to pay the same price for it. you speak to me as a man who thinks he can put himself in the place of a woman. all i can say is that this is the time for you to be a man and keep your mouth shut because this is something you would never have to put up with yourself!
madam president, i’m looking around the room and there’s only five men, myself included. i’m not counting the commission staff. and i think it is sad that only five men speak in favour of women’s rights because women’s rights are human rights. and it concerns us too. i grew up in ceausescu’s romania back in the eighties when abortion was banned, and i’ve heard terrifying stories, stories about women dying of complications of self-induced abortions or abortions performed somewhere on a ship or in some illegal place. and i think that striking down roe versus wade would lead to more than 20 us states banning abortion and perhaps to 36 million women having direct consequences from this on their right for their body, for their life. so colleagues, here in this house, let’s stop a war on women, men and women together. we have very clear values here in europe. let’s talk about them. let’s speak to our american friends about them, and let’s fight so that banning abortion remains just a sad legacy of the past and not a miserable gift for the future.
madam president, commissioner, the georgian people are a people with a european vocation. clearly, the excesses in restricting freedom of expression are unacceptable and must be condemned and fought. but who wants georgia to be weakened? who wants georgia to distance itself from the european union? who wants georgia to have no prospect of european integration? obviously putin. that is why i think our response has to be more enlargement, consistent support for georgia, and obviously the politicians there have to understand that the european union is not a double standard project, it is values, it is freedoms that they have an obligation to respect and to insert into the set of values of the georgian nation, which deserves to be integrated into the european union. that is why i support the candidate status of georgia.
madam president, more than 360 million christians suffer, because of their faith, high levels of persecution and discrimination. they are threatened, rejected, imprisoned, displaced, beaten. they are forced into marriages, their churches are raided, closed, some destroyed, but they do not abandon their faith in jesus. one in five christians is persecuted in africa, two in five in asia, one in fifteen in latin america. christians are persecuted by hatred of islamic extremism, by communist oppression, by non-islamic religious nationalism, and the rest, for other reasons. last week we saw the horrific images of a young student being beaten, stoned and burned alive in nigeria. this week we have seen, also in nigeria, the church of st. francis xavier in ondo state attacked during the pentecost sunday mass, its parishioners dying on the ground and part of the community kidnapped. also this week the christian village of nandoli, in mozambique, has been burned down by the islamic state. europe is looking the other way and this must end. that's enough. there can be no collaboration with any of these governments and any aid from the european union and its member states must be conditional on the actual protection of these communities. in nigeria alone, a christian is killed every two hours, thirteen a day. our actions and words today can save these lives, before they kill tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or next week. that's why i'm begging for your help. our brothers make a living at it.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, we must do all we can to prevent conflicts in nigeria taking on a religious underpinning. and there is certainly a risk of this should these conflicts go unaddressed. in the run-up to the 2023 general elections in nigeria, the risk of increased political violence is great, as electoral competition raises tensions. continued engagement in nigeria as a key economic and political player on the african continent and reinforcing our integrated and multifaceted approach towards nigeria will remain permanent. the eu remains committed alongside the government and its partners to building sustainable peace, deepening democracy and ensuring protection of the fundamental human rights of all its people, including the right of worship and freedom of religion or belief.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the pentecost attack in nigeria, which killed 21 believers, is one of the most striking examples of a general phenomenon: that of christianophobia, which today has reached proportions that a british investigative report described as close to the international definition of genocide. according to a report by the ngo open doors, 91% of christians killed for their faith were in africa in 2020, most notably in nigeria. but they are not spared in other areas of the continent, notably in the sahel, and this in the wake of the withdrawal of french troops from mali. attacks on churches are increasing, for example, in burkina faso. in mozambique, the conflict in the province of cabo delgado has left nearly 800,000 people stranded on the roads and caused the death of some 4,000 others. the european union has also been a major donor to the fight against terrorism. in other parts of the world, the restrictions are vague, but real - for example in china. so, beyond the tragedy in nigeria, it is a global phenomenon, but, it must be said, particularly marked on the african continent. it must be denounced for what it is, forcefully and convincingly.
in writing. the latest shocking data showed that dozens of believers, including women and children, were killed in an attack on the catholic church of st. francis during the celebration of the rosary. i am deeply saddened by this unprovoked attack and categorically condemn violence in all its forms, regardless of religious belief and/or ethnicity. this attack shows us once again that we must act so that such tragic moments do not happen again. in nigeria, there is almost no protection for christians, and europe has an obligation to be more vigilant and to react to any form of violence. effective action and concrete measures against mass persecution are needed. i therefore support any eu action to provide humanitarian assistance and help strengthen democracy, mediation, reintegration, tackle the root causes of the conflict and promote intercultural and religious dialogue.
mr president, vice-president, dear colleagues, the first question one could raise is whether there is a treaty-change opportunity. after all, there is a war in our neighbourhood, a severe recession is looming, energy prices are going through the roof… why start a long and complicated political and legal procedure now instead of seeking fast and effective answers to the most pressing questions? some say the conference on the future of europe legitimises starting treaty change. but let’s be honest, we know the conference was neither sufficiently representative in its choice of stakeholders nor sufficiently pluralistic in the way it adopted its decisions. yet, colleagues, i say there is a treaty-change opportunity. the past decade has shown us that a stronger, faster and more united europe is needed to answer challenges during economic crises, health crises, in areas like border protection, defence, climate change and energy security. we can certainly have a successful convention if we allow ourselves sufficient time to seek pragmatic consensus – if we avoid ideologically driven, dead-end debates and do not waste our energy discussing issues that are completely irrelevant for the majority of citizens, such as transnational lists, and if we do not pursue the nuclear option of forcing the will of the majority on all, at any cost, by abolishing the unanimity rule. we will need wisdom to respect the diversity of the member states, having in mind a difficult ratification process in the end. it is not uniformity that makes us stronger, but our diversity in pursuing common goals.
mr president, commissioner, i too strongly believe that we need a much stronger determination to combat illegal logging in europe. i come from a country that has been exposed to illegal deforestation that is hard to understand and explain, because the mafia has no color when it attacks the forests. but what i want to say as frankly as possible is that in recent years the legislation in romania has been heavily modified, much improved. if until recently cutting five cubic meters of wood was a misdemeanor, today it is a felony. many go to jail precisely because they touch forests and i believe that romania can and must improve its tools to combat illegal deforestation and that is what we will continue to do.
in writing. protecting our environment, wildlife, and the associated consequences of demographic pressure is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and it all comes down to forests. in the spirit of sustainability, we must work to make our forests healthier, while maintaining the forest as a full-fledged industry and providing livelihoods for the communities that live there, as it has done for centuries. this is not an easy task, and since i have been working on this subject in the committee on petitions, we have discussed many issues. citizens have petitioned the parliament, including romania, to help us solve the problems caused by illegal logging. we discussed it in committee and adopted a resolution. i support more effective action against illegal logging, and we must look for ways of intensifying european cooperation to stop criminal activities that damage the state of our forests. it's in all of our interests. i thank the commission for its efforts so far and for the investigations carried out in cross-border cases by the competent bodies. i am convinced that member states are aware of their responsibility and are interested in reducing crime, and are therefore strengthening the legislative framework, strengthening the powers and toolbox of the authorities, and introducing new digital tracing tools. in the european internal market, timber and other sectors based on it should also be subject to appropriate rules that respect biodiversity and guarantee that timber coming into the eu is derived from legal sources.
mr president, for more than ten years the european institutions have been trying to reach a consensus on access for third countries to the union's internal market for public procurement. today's vote takes us one step closer to that goal. that's why i voted. we have seen over the last two years and especially over the last few months the importance of the union's cooperation with countries in all regions of the world. today, parliament is leading the way, regulating access to the internal market for trading partners on fair terms, while respecting competition rules. of course, this access also implies reciprocity. the instrument we are discussing today will thus provide the european union with the necessary negotiating leverage to open up access to third-country public procurement markets for european companies. it is essential that in such an interconnected world the european union be a leader and a promoter of cooperation between states, whether in the remotest parts of asia or africa.
mr president, the european union is a constantly evolving body and ever-increasing european integration must be our main objective. of course, in strict accordance with the democratic principles we have pledged to uphold. that is why the european parliament, as the sole representative directly elected by the citizens of the european union, must be at the heart of all the policies the union is promoting. if in 1992, with the signing of the treaty on european union, i spoke timidly for the first time of the european parliament's legislative role, i am glad that today we have taken a historic vote, a first step towards parliament acquiring a general and direct right of initiative. i believe that the will of the citizens must be respected and that the european parliament must be given full powers and the role it deserves in the hierarchy of the institutions of the european union. a role that the citizens of the european union expect us to play, more actively, more involved.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur and parliament on having had this important discussion. it is essential that we have a new trade instrument to ban products made by forced labour in the european union. economic development and profit from the abuse of slavery or human rights violations have no place in the european union. i would like to draw attention to the fact that forced labour, child labour and human trafficking are, unfortunately, harsh realities that still exist in many of our countries. that is why i urge my colleagues to find, together with the commission, new internal levers to ensure that the eradication of poverty and social exclusion goes hand in hand with the abolition of forced labour and human trafficking.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, i have to go. we also support the candidate status of ukraine, moldova and georgia and the acceleration of the european integration of the western balkan countries. in the present challenging period of war, this is a good opportunity to promote european unity and strengthen these countries. of course, all countries must meet the conditions for accession, including the copenhagen criteria. the accession of countries should be considered on the basis of the same values and conditions, and therefore, in addition to supporting the accession of ukraine and moldova, georgia and bosnia and herzegovina should be granted accession at the same pace. it is the only way for the eu to remain authentic. the union's credibility also depends on speeding up the accession process of the western balkan countries, as, particularly in this geopolitical situation, the union has a fundamental interest in the security and stability of the region. this requires the acceleration of accession negotiations with serbia and montenegro, the opening of negotiations with north macedonia and albania, and the granting of visa-free travel to kosovo. the expansion must be given new impetus.
mr president, mr vice-president šefčovič, the european council tomorrow is an important milestone in the process of european integration. the decision to grant ukraine and moldova candidate status is crucial in this war-torn phase, without prejudice to the criteria required for accession. we also look forward to the steps forward that georgia has committed itself to taking along this road, but we also need to give, as many colleagues have said during this debate, a concrete prospect of accession to the countries of the western balkans. we must be interpreters of their demand for freedom and democracy and their desire to be european. we cannot abandon this important part of europe to the will of others. at the same time, we must support our citizens. the food crisis, aggravated by the drought in southern europe, inflation and high energy prices are seriously damaging our families and businesses. that is why we must ensure that grain is supplied to ukraine through the corridors of solidarity, which do not yet appear to be very operational, and support our farmers. we need a gas price cap and the decoupling of gas and electricity prices. it is not just that, but we must also think about the revision of the treaties.
mr president, the summit this week is of historical importance that we cannot miss to use. enlargement policy should cease to be a side policy but part of the eu’s mainstream again. we have to grant candidacy status to ukraine and moldova as a sign of our clear political support and our recognition of their commitment. georgia deserves the same, but has to follow up on the clearly determined conditions for its candidate status. granting candidacy status must be accompanied finally with the start of the negotiations for north macedonia and albania. the european union’s recommitment to the western balkans is more urgent than ever. it would also be the best message for the people of accession countries to still believe in the european union and their european future. the enlargement process must remain a merit-based approach. after years of fatigue, let’s fuel new energy into the enlargement process. everything else would be a strategic and historic mistake that would weaken the credibility of our union.
mr president, dear vice-president, dear colleagues, true political leadership doesn’t come easy, and certainly doesn’t come often. it requires long—term, steadfast vision as well as the ability to take agile, bold decisions when such decisions are necessary. we are now living one of these moments in history when true political leaders must rise up to the task. we are at a time when the balance between vision and decisiveness is crucial for the future of the union and its role in the world. dear vice-president šefčovič, as standing rapporteur for the republic of moldova of this house, i applaud the leadership that the commission has shown in last week’s recommendation. now it is time for the council, for the heads of state and government, to also see that granting candidate status to moldova and ukraine cannot be about the size of the country, but about whatever we must do to put our house in order. it is about shared values and those deep motivations that animated the founding fathers of our union. moldova and ukraine belong here. this parliament has said it. the commission has said it. it is now time for the council to say the same.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. mrs plumb, you said that this is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union related to the security crisis we are going through. what do you think are the measures that the union should take now to accelerate the integration process for moldova and ukraine?
in writing. the leaders of the western balkan countries meet in brussels on thursday 23 june to ask the commission, the high representative and the council to make significant progress in the process of accession to the european union. this acceleration is the result of the consequences of the war in ukraine and is in response to the discussion on the same day, during which eu leaders are expected to grant candidate status to ukraine and moldova, although georgia would be offered a prospect of accession. following jean monnet's prediction that europe will be in crisis, german minister annalena baerbock said that accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania should be opened immediately. we certainly do not share that view! the conflict in ukraine must not become a kind of passphrase for countries which share little or nothing of the 'european way of life' and which are still very far from the minimum standard of the community acquis.
in writing. the republic of moldova, ukraine and georgia are part of the european family. it is time for the european union to grant them the status of candidate countries. this is imperative for the republic of moldova and ukraine, which have received a favourable recommendation from the european commission. georgia still has political reforms to make, but it needs a clear european perspective to bring them to fruition. the achievement of the candidate status is primarily the merit of the citizens of the republic of moldova and ukraine, who have continued to support the european path despite the enormous pressures from moscow, which have degenerated these days into the horrible aggression against ukraine. it is also the merit of the leaders of the two countries, maia sandu and volodimir zelenskiy, who presented very good candidatures in extremely difficult conditions. the confidence of the citizens of moldova and ukraine in european values, which they defend with guns in their hands, should be an inspiration for those who, once they joined the union, began to push them aside, offering all kinds of justifications. the european union and european values are worth fighting for, and the example of the countries in our neighbourhood does not let us forget that.
in writing. the consequences of the war in ukraine are also being felt at union level, with more and more households facing pressure from rising food prices. globally, approximately 47 million people are likely to be affected by acute food insecurity in 2022, mainly in developing countries. in such a context, we need additional resources and tailor-made measures to support trade flows in agri-food products, which contribute to the union's trade resilience. for example, my country, romania, has made efforts in this regard since the war began, taking over significantly from what was transported in and out of ukraine. i therefore welcome the prompt response of the romanian ministry of transport and its efforts to develop the port of constanța and economic routes. the intensification of the joint support effort should take the form of measures such as the establishment of solidarity lanes through the efficiency of transport networks, the reorientation of supply chains in the member states and investments in the development of production capacity in the affected states. food security and access to food at a decent price must be key eu priorities.
in writing. the people of ukraine, the republic of moldova and georgia have consistently demonstrated for years their unwavering support for the european direction of their countries and their acceptance of european principles and values. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has accepted the applications for membership of ukraine, the republic of moldova and georgia as an expression of the european ambitions of the people and their desire to live in peace and security in free, democratic and prosperous countries that maintain good neighbourly relations with all european countries and work ever closer together with the eu member states.
in writing. the eu can make a decision in the general council that gives hope to countries that deserve candidate status and are able to implement it ahead of the next round of reforms. there's a war in europe today. putin has made no secret of his ambitions. the desire to restore the russian empire is no longer to be found between the lines of putin's story he speaks it publicly and his story must be taken seriously. to restore the russian empire, putin will not choose the means. the european union must stand up to this and offer a better alternative. we certainly cannot stand idly by and watch the enemy tear free nations and societies apart step by step. the eu has never expanded at gunpoint. countries wishing to join the eu must undergo a reform process to prove their suitability for membership. this is the path all candidate countries must follow. today, the candidate status is to be given to ukraine, moldova. hopefully, even the sceptics of the past will see the opportunity and responsibility for a better europe that a positive decision entails. yes, there is a clear message from the eu to these peoples we are with you on a journey that, no matter how long it takes, will bring you amongst the eu member states. unfortunately, the situation in georgia today does not meet the criteria to be used as a basis. the government of georgia has run the country undemocratically. i do not support the granting of candidate status to georgia today, but i hope that the day will come when georgia will meet the conditions.
in writing. the new geostrategic context shows us the risks of stopping eu enlargement and forces us to relaunch this process. we have seen in these last months how damaging the statement of 2015 by the then european commissioner for neighbourhood policy was, announcing that there would be no enlargement of the eu in the next ten years. a waiting period was closed and the conditions were created for the vulnerability of the union's eastern neighbourhood. that is why our resolution is needed as a firm political signal before the european council. on the basis of the european commission's opinion to grant ukraine and the republic of moldova candidate country status and to offer georgia a european perspective, the eu now has a duty to respond to the will of the citizens of these states. i believe that the accession process should be started in accordance with article 49 of the eu treaty. the republic of moldova and ukraine should be supported in the process of fulfilling the accession criteria and, in turn, should ensure compliance with the values set out in article 2 of the eu treaty.
mr president, commissioner gentiloni, in a recent white paper, the un explicitly emphasised the crucial role of companies in accomplishing development goals, wealth distribution and sustainable economic growth. no matter how large or small and regardless of their industry, all companies can contribute to the sdgs. multinational enterprises can contribute to the sdgs by conducting responsible research and innovation with the maturity of innovation ecosystem. on the other hand, smes seem to struggle to understand the role they could play in the sdg framework. they encounter several barriers to implementing the sdgs’ principles and initiatives, making their engagement with entities challenging and problematic. all in all, there is a need for a decentralised approach to sustainable development. in that direction, the eu could also encourage interactions across different power levels and smes could actively participate in local processes of sustainable development implementations.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think that this debate confirmed the very strong support of the parliament for the report. we know that we are not on track, that the combined impact of the war and previously of the pandemic de facto halted the progress towards the sdgs. and here i think the european union has a special role to play both internally and at global level, because of our leadership on the climate transition and because of our ambition on our other sdgs, i think we can give a strong contribution to restart the progress which was halted by this double crisis. so we look forward to engaging with all of you in the preparation of the 2023 eu voluntary review. i am confident that this important deliverable and the process of preparation of this deliverable will provide an opportunity to take forward our ambitions to reinforce sdg implementation and also to strengthen the cooperation of the commission and the parliament.
rapporteur. – madam president and commissioner, thank you very much for your response to the debate. and i think, you know, you’re right, we’re lagging behind. however, we have to remember, eurostat’s latest report is based on data collected before the pandemic and before the war. so we’re in for a shock when we get our next set of data as to how far we really are lagging behind here. we can talk a good game about leaving nobody behind and reaching the furthest behind first. but i think we’re going to find shocking statistics around how bad the situation really is. that’s why i think it is so timely that we have this conversation today, that we have a conversation that’s based on the reality that, unfortunately, this agenda has really fallen off dramatically, and it’s really time that we bring it back onto the agenda, because fundamentally we cannot achieve our paris climate targets without the sdgs. they are two sides of the one coin. they are mutually reinforcing and they are an off-the-shelf conceptual framework to build back better. you couldn’t imagine a better international global agreed framework to build back better based on solidarity with those that are suffering the most. i want to make a final point about democracy. the european parliament is the second largest democratically elected body in the world, and i’m very proud that, thanks to the work of my colleagues (particularly my co-rapporteur petros kokkalis and my colleagues in the sdg alliance, which i am honored to chair), this house will express its views on the eu’s implementation for the very first time this term. european parliament’s core function is democratic scrutiny. we communicate to you, commissioner, the future that your half a billion citizens want. we neglected our duty to scrutinise the european commission’s implementation over the last couple of years. from now on, this will not be the case.
in writing. for global problems, we need global action. now more than ever, urgent and concrete action is needed. the european union must demonstrate its leadership in the global effort to achieve the 17 goals. it is certainly not an easy task in the context of new challenges, but it is not impossible either. the covid pandemic has significantly impacted the achievement of the sustainable development goals, especially in developing countries. the new geopolitical realities and russia's illegal invasion of ukraine are also not only impacting the objectives set out in the 2030 agenda, but are even causing a significant setback in their achievement, in particular in terms of tackling inequalities and hunger. however, we must leave no one behind. we need to implement a responsible and forward-looking policy that is decisive, not just for our economy and our environment, but also for our security, putting equality and resilience at the centre. we have to adapt to new realities. this requires more coherent funding, better implementation and, last but not least, unity at european level. because europe must have one voice!
in writing. i agree that it is important for the european parliament to have a look at how the implementation of the recovery and resilience instrument is going. but that's not possible in the case of hungary, because we haven't received the money that would otherwise be due under the law. the commission continues to make its point with a number of unsatisfactory excuses. hungary provides objective replies to the commission's objections, but receives no reply to them. as regards corruption charges, for example, it was the european chief prosecutor, ms laura codruta kövesi, who recently showed how committed hungary is to cooperation. it is therefore clear that there is a political issue behind the dispute over the approval of the hungarian plan. this has been acknowledged by the commission itself at an ecofin meeting. the european parliament holds monthly meetings on hungary, and today's debate fits into that category. the left is blackmailing the commission, ordering it to hold back the hungarian plan. the approval of the polish plan would even lead to a motion of no confidence against the president of the commission. i ask you, if the hungarian plan is approved, will the berlaymont be attacked? hungary is supporting ukrainian refugees beyond its means in the current war situation. it is also one of the member states most affected by the economic difficulties caused by the war. i would like my colleagues on the left, instead of wasting their energy on political strife, to strengthen solidarity and unity in times of war.
written. ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be here to discuss this key issue. since the adoption of the sustainable development goals at the new york summit in 2015, with the ambition to implement them by 2030, the european union has shown itself to be a global leader in sustainable societal transformation, as reflected in the european green deal and all subsequently proposed and adopted policies, plans and directives. but recently, because of the energy crisis caused by the russian aggression against ukraine, we are witnessing worrying reversible processes, even in european countries that have been at the forefront of sustainable energy transition. i believe we can and must do better and that we really need to turn this great crisis into an opportunity for a faster and better sustainable transition and a more effective implementation of the sustainable development goals, particularly the 7th, 9th, 11th, 12th, 13th and 15th. we will demonstrate that europe's commitment to sustainable transition in these times of crisis can be a positive example at the global level of implementation of the un sustainable development goals.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner gentiloni, the commission has to present the evaluation on the recovery and resilience mechanism by 31 july. and with this report from the european parliament we intend to make a constructive contribution to that evaluation. it is true that we have barely completed one year of implementation of the recovery plans, but i think that the data we have so far can be considered quite positive. the response to the crisis has been, unlike in 2008, forceful, coordinated and above all innovative, overcoming many barriers and breaking some taboos. because not only did we decide to create a fund of almost eur 700 billion, but that fund was financed by european debt and will be reimbursed by new european taxes. that is to say, a fund which applies a double solidarity both for expenditure and for revenue. and this time, the union has clearly demonstrated its commitment to its citizens, its businesses and its territories. the fund has already had and will have very positive effects on the economies of our countries. it is giving stability to our economies and is enabling us to maintain high levels of investment at a time of great global uncertainty. the pandemic first and the war after have shaken up many of our organizational structures and, above all, have highlighted the need for strategic autonomy in essential supply chains, critical services and infrastructure. this fund is not the solution to all our needs, but it is laying a very solid foundation thanks to the reforms and investments that are being funded. we were right when, as parliament, we proposed to add to the green and digital transition objectives four more pillars that have focused on the economy, social and territorial cohesion, health and institutional resilience and, of course, support and protection measures for our children and young people. the six pillars have been translated, for example, into an ecological target of 37%, which we will follow very closely to make it real, something that at the moment seems to be in doubt, and into a digital target of 20%, which has been far exceeded with the plans presented and we are almost at 30%, thanks to which smes, public services or the health sector are benefiting. in the social field, according to the commission's estimates, we are about 20% of the expenditure, which is not a bad figure and thanks to it, for example, employment incentives for disadvantaged groups are being financed or labour legislation is being amended to give greater protection, quality and stability in jobs. but we also found that some governments have not sufficiently taken into account the socioeconomic impact of the pandemic on women and the most vulnerable groups and have therefore not calibrated the social dimension of their plans well. health systems are also benefiting from european investment, with a significant improvement in hospital infrastructure, strengthening of primary care and prevention. but you have to pull the ears here, because of the lack of commitment to mental health. this must be a european priority. and i would like to end with two cross-cutting points that i consider essential. first, respect for the rule of law. this parliament has been very clear that 'member states must comply with all the obligations arising from the rule of law' and has been forceful in saying that recovery plans should not be approved for countries that do not comply. this is the case in hungary and it was the case in poland, although here both the commission and the council are of the opinion that the conditions for moving forward are there, something which we as parliament do not share, and i repeat: not a single euro will be spent until all the agreed measures have been implemented. this is a matter of the highest priority and importance for parliament, for my group and especially for me as rapporteur for the two regulations on recovery and resilience, but also for budgetary conditionality in relation to respect for the rule of law. and secondly, the new scenario after the russian invasion of ukraine. the impact of war is translating into millions of refugees we have to take in, into very high inflation rates, into skyrocketing energy prices. this adds a lot more pressure to the situation created by the pandemic. when we negotiated this mechanism, we were aware of the need for a green transition for ecology, but also for economics. today the urgency is more evident: because of the heat waves, because of the price of gas and because of the need to disconnect from russia. and with repowereu, we will try to match needs with available funding to maximise impact, but let's not kid ourselves, there's not much more money. it is almost the same budget and european budgets are also at their limit. in a pandemic, we did the hardest thing: change our paradigm. let's now reflect together on how to build a new financial architecture based on these last steps that we have all so fruitfully taken together.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner gentiloni, dear colleagues, the european recovery and resilience facility is the biggest package of economic support ever launched at european level: eur 672.5 billion for the people affected by the pandemic, for enterprises and regions affected by the healthcare crisis and by the economic and social consequences. we have together adopted legislation one year ago, and since then 26 of the 27 member states of the union have put forward their national recovery plans, and 22 of the 27 member states have received the 13% pre-financing before the end of last year and are now in the process of implementing the plans and presenting the milestones and targets fulfilled to the european institutions and are also in the process of receiving the next tranches. this instrument was launched to help those affected by the pandemic, but also to improve the resilience of our economies, of our public systems, to make our hospitals more modern, to enlarge capacities, to digitalise the education system. we have established clear rules at european level – a clear direction, six pillars into which money can flow, clear rules at european level – but also allowed for flexibility for the priorities of member states, knowing that the needs differ from member state to member state. eider gardiazabal, dragoş pîslaru and myself as the three co-rapporteurs are putting now before this house the first implementation report in which we are issuing the opinion of the parliament on the plans, on the assessment done by the european commission and the process so far. and we are concluding that the recovery and resilience facility has already made a positive contribution to the recovery of the european economy following covid. it already has a positive contribution to the development of our economies, upon growth, and we expect its impact upon growth and upon job creation to increase in the months to come. once adopted, a national plan needs to be implemented. it should not be changed and amended on a permanent basis. this is why, in the european legislation, we have allowed for amendments and changes to the plans only on an objective basis. no to political changes. but the illegitimate invasion of russian armed forces into ukraine changes a lot in the european economy. and this is why if member states intend to make investments in improving energy efficiency, reducing dependency on russia, investing in renewables, in new sources of energy, in energy infrastructure in the member state, in a way in which this helps the whole european union, i believe we should facilitate this. food safety, food security: we have also seen we will be missing imports of agricultural products from ukraine. we have to do everything we can to increase production here at home, at european level. if member states intend to amend their plans into these directions, i believe we should be open. our report underlines that this is an instrument for investments, but also reforms, and it underlines that the implementation of the country—specific recommendations, of the reforms agreed by the commission and the governments, will strengthen the economies, will make them more resilient. we would like to see more cross-border projects, particularly in the area of energy, because this will help us to bring the energy from where we have it to where we need it. commissioner, we will also work with the commission and with the governments of member states to make sure that the loans which were not yet accessed by some member states will be accessed and preferably in areas which are linked to reducing the energy dependence. the european parliament also expects that local and regional authorities be involved properly, because the amounts of money are big, the time is short. the recovery and resilience facility can much better be implemented together with local and regional authorities. and one last thing: transparency and control. the european union will spend more money than ever from its traditional budget and from the recovery and resilience facility in the next years together. the more we spend, the more we need to make sure that money really reaches the beneficiaries for which it is intended; strong goals for the european public prosecutor, for olaf, europol, eurojust, to make sure that money really reaches people in need and that the rule of law is observed before any payment is made from the recovery and resilience facility. we are united as a parliament. thank you, eider, thank you dragoş for the very good cooperation. many thanks to the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups as well.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner gentiloni, dear colleagues, it is indeed a great privilege to see that today the parliament takes one step further in ensuring, first and foremost, democratic accountability as a solid principle at the core of the largest financial instruments that the eu has ever seen. the recovery and resilience facility marks, and will mark for the generations that follow, a new chapter in the history of our european union. it is indeed a beautiful symbol of solidarity in one of our darkest times, showing that only united we can emerge more resilient following crises such as the pandemic. it puts forward a new concept in eu funds that blends reforms with investments and guides eu member states in how best to invest the allocated funds. and it has created ownership on responding to the country-specific recommendations that were not taken on board by member states for years beforehand. it’s also setting the ambition higher for our economic governance framework in showing that the parliament can and should have a greater role to play. back in 2020, this house stood united in negotiation with an amazing negotiation team of our rapporteurs and shadows. and we have been demanding at that time things that right now are already in regulation and in course of implementation. the member states have been asked to draft the recovery and resilience plans in a balanced way, including measures on six pillars, also demanding from parliament side that there will be proper consultations with stakeholders in the drafting and implementation of plans and, as has been underlined by my colleague, co-rapporteurs, demanding transparency in how money should be spent, highlighting beneficiaries, creating proper control mechanisms and setting up monitoring too. we are right now halfway through this facility, which we decided back then we would make it last until 2023. where do we stand on the points that we so much defended? until now, the parliament had many initiatives to ensure the proper and effective implementation of the facility. we organised, as you well know, several plenary debates, drafted several resolutions, expressing our position on key moments in its evolution. we organised much-needed recovery and resilience dialogues with vice-president dombrovskis and commissioner gentiloni and held recurrent rrf working groups, meetings and discussions with commission representatives and civil society organisations. now in this initiative that we have today debated, related to our own implementation report, it’s an analysis on how we see the progress member states registered so far. and together with my dear colleagues, siegfried mureşan from the epp and eider gardiazabal rubial from the s&d, together with all the shadows, we produced an extensive analysis on the current state of play. we are glad to see that member states made the effort and submitted their plans. it was not an easy task. we knew from the beginning that drafting a plan of reforms and investments will be a complex task with a lot of pressure and a lot of expectations. we are glad that almost all plans managed to obtain approval. but do not forget: a plan must never be approved at any cost. always remember that eu values are essential, non-negotiable, and they must set the foundation of each action, project, reform or investment that uses eu funds. the plans are much more than paperwork to justify the money. the plans in several member states are a roadmap to development to further expand and develop their economies. the plans are the ways to launch important social reforms. the plans are important steps in being sure that children and youth are taken care of with enough attention. we have read many good ideas in the plans. we have seen investment that could easily be scaled up in other member states. but i just wanted to say that i am also having things that we could have done better. for instance, too many plans do not properly reflect the ambition set by the european child guarantee, and they reflect only partially those of the reinforced youth guarantee. and there are even two member states that have chosen not to include in their plans measures specifically dedicated to children and youth, but prefer to present measures that foster only skills and digital skills for all citizens. we are living in challenging times, which require both unity and flexibility. unity also means inclusiveness and member states did little or not too much to include local and regional authorities, civil society organisations, social partners, academia or other relevant stakeholders in the design of the plans. governments have now the chance, the opportunity, to prove that the implementation of the plans is done together with the stakeholders, in order to involve them in implementation and monitoring, based on clear and transparent principles. and then flexibility. the current situation in ukraine is having a heavy impact on energy prices and the need to strengthen this energy security. all these elements can be achieved through repowereu, a necessary instrument, which member states will be able to add in their planned measures to achieve energy sovereignty and independence. finally, and i would like to end here, we need to choose if the rrf will be just the story or a legacy. and i think that right now the parliament is doing that and we are doing since we started the work on the rrf, and all this work can be continued if the parliament gains an increased role in future eu initiatives.
madam president, commissioner, the recovery and resilience mechanism is undoubtedly a huge historic success and a huge achievement for the european union. we are particularly proud that the european parliament played a leading role in setting up the recovery fund and really fought the battle, because it believed that with this powerful weapon we could deal with the consequences of the pandemic and the consequences of an unprecedented socioeconomic crisis. i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr siegfried mureșan, and the other honourable members who have really fought hard to get us here. it was a great success for all those involved, and certainly our own european parliament has the credit for it, but always in cooperation with the european commission and with you. but the recovery mechanism was created at a time when the brutal russian invasion of ukraine, which created new socioeconomic consequences that certainly, to be able to deal with at this time when societies are really suffering through the energy crisis, the precision and inflation, probably needs a new social recovery fund. because if societies and households collapse, this recovery fund may not be as effective as we expect. my own country, cyprus, has successfully submitted the plan for the recovery fund and will use every last euro to benefit the cypriot people, society, recovery and prosperity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is the key word to respond to the uncertainties and shock waves that are hitting the european economy, an economy that was hit hard by the war, when it was still taking its first steps in the process of recovery and starting its investment programme. it was indeed with monetary policy flexibility that the european central bank responded to the first signs of turbulence in the sovereign debt markets, following the negative effects of its measures to combat inflation. and it is also flexibility that we now need in the implementation of the recovery plans to respond to the new situation created by inflation. the world has changed and rising inflation is radically altering the economic and financial conditions for implementing recovery plans, which implies changing targets and timetables as well. it is not for lack of flexibility that europe is failing in its plans to recover and relaunch the european economy.
madam president, the recovery and resilience facility is an unprecedented tool to help mitigate the socio-economic impact of the pandemic, but also to address other challenges we face. it is therefore essential that we use this funding as efficiently as possible and that it is available quickly and without unnecessary administrative burdens. detailed guidelines applicable within national differences should be provided to member states by the commission. i would also like to call on the commission to be accommodating in the event of objective changes to recovery plans. in today's fast-changing environment, with the many challenges associated with the impact of the war in ukraine, as well as other socio-economic impacts such as price increases and inflation, it is necessary that member states have sufficient flexibility and the possibility to submit amendments reflecting their needs. it is flexibility coupled with fast processes and clear rules that are key to the success and achievability of the objectives of the recovery and resilience facility.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the crisis we are experiencing and the volatility of the current economic environment mean that the recovery and resilience plans approved last year are no longer fully responsive to our needs today. whether it is agriculture or health, education or energy, pensions or social benefits, the list of priorities has changed profoundly in many european countries. this is also the case in romania, where we had a plan that was fast-forwarded, with many shortcomings, millions of euros allocated for consulting and targets that affect the social stability of the country. it is therefore important that the european regulation allows for greater flexibility, optimisation in line with the needs of the member states, but also a fair distribution of funds between investment areas and beneficiary areas. last but not least, i have always campaigned for a significant allocation of funds for education and continuing training and i was even the author of the amendment by which we, the european parliament, demanded at least 10% of the funds for this area. i am pleased to see that the majority of member states have followed our recommendation and that this proposal is being taken up in the european parliament's new perspective.
madam president, whatever you say, the recovery and resilience mechanism is not a panacea. let 's see . a financial allocation that is largely insufficient to offset the impacts of the pandemic, now added to the impacts of war and sanctions, and even more insufficient to revive and modernise member states' economies. a substantial part in the form of loans, which the states do not take up in order not to incur further debt. an advance on future payments which we reject in the context of the weakening of eu budgets and cohesion policies which should instead be reinforced by the national contributions of the member states in line with their gross national income. a mechanism that ties economic recovery and investment policies to the constraints of macroeconomic governance instruments such as the european semester, which should be removed. the commission's response is not in line with the reality and the most pressing structural needs of the countries, and it is not independent of the commission's interventions and pressures, which are compounded by delays in the availability of funds, postponing the response that is urgently needed to create jobs, to recover investment and to promote productive capacity.
member of the commission. – madam president, i had a sense of pride in this debate. and i think that we the parliament, the commission, the european institutions, we should be proud of what we were able to decide in the circumstances of the pandemic crisis. is this plan for the previous crisis and not so useful for the situation we are in? i think this would be a big mistake that we should avoid. we are in a moment of low growth. we hear the decision-making persons speaking about the risk of stagflation or recession. we can avoid these risks. but these plans – reforms and investments, not digging holes and filling holes, but reforms and investments coordinated with common goals – are essential if we want to address the situation we are in now. i am not saying that the commission will not consider targeted and limited amendments to the plans. i am saying that it would be a mistake, in my view – and i think we agreed on this with the rapporteur – to restart the design of these plans. now we have to implement, implement, implement with the necessary amendments, but implementing what we decided in the last one year and a half, and of course, respecting milestones. milestones should be respected. i think that the parliament control will help the commission also to make the milestone respected in the plans where they are very challenging. and the polish plan is one of them with very challenging milestones. they should be respected before any payment. last point, of course there is a discussion on how can we strengthen what we have on the table. this discussion is perfectly legitimate. we have now repowereu, which is part of the possibility to strengthen our tools. but honestly, the discussion on further tools, which i perfectly understand, is a discussion that will be stronger if we will be able to implement what we have. so let us work together to make rrf function well, because this will be the basis also to strengthen it in further initiatives.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, i too have felt the pride that, as parliament and as commission, and i suppose as council, we all have to have approved the recovery plan. and here we have seen unanimous support and, in addition, a very positive assessment of the effects that this has had. i also think that we have seen in this debate the commitment of parliament to follow very closely the implementation of the recovery plans and, above all, to sound the alarm if we see that we are deviating from the objectives. but i think that we also - and several people have said this here - have to be aware that the situation has changed from when we negotiated the recovery plan to now, after the crisis or the war in ukraine, which means that we have to look at recovery plans with a certain flexibility. we cannot disregard the context in which we are living. and i also think it has stood out, and i think that is the way we have to go and the way we have to debate 'sharing the commissioner's words'. but there is a willingness to explore this mechanism, which has been a cyclical response, to become something structural. obviously, it has to work so that we can work on those bases, but i think the will is there, and of course our commitment to it.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, thank you very much for this positive and constructive spirit during this debate. this was also the spirit, an inclusive spirit, this was the spirit through which eider gardiazabal, dragoş pîslaru and myself tried to work. and i am confident that when we will be adopting this report tomorrow, it will be supported by a large majority of colleagues. we, when adopting it, will want to make sure that money reaches beneficiaries, it reaches the people in need it, it reaches the people it was intended for, and it was well spent. now we will need to work all together to make the recovery and resilience facility a success up to the end of its implementation – european parliament, the commission and the governments of member states. we expect the commission to make sure that the regulation is applied properly. we intend to make sure that the governments absorb the funds without delays. and the parliament will, of course, ensure the democratic accountability and the supervision. we shall all work together on this. and commissioner, you have asked us for the opinion on repowereu. we as a european parliament want to make sure that the money which was not yet accessed by member states from their loan component from the recovery and resilience facility will be accessed, will be made good use of, particularly in the area of energy efficiency. we believe repower eu is the right proposal to incentivise the absorption of those funds. money should be used where it is needed, but it should not be taken away from where it is needed as well. this is why we will be working together with our experts, our colleagues from the agriculture, from the regional development committee, to make sure that money is not transferred away from other priorities which are already in the plans where it is needed. of course, last word, implementation of reforms will be important and we are aware that the member states have planned the most difficult reforms towards the end of the implementation, and this is why we call on the commission to provide to the member states all technical assistance, all assistance that it has available to make sure that the member states can also implement those reforms, which are good for the countries which strengthen their economies. once again, thank you, dear colleagues, and we are looking forward to the vote tomorrow. commissioner, thank you again for being with us tonight.
rapporteur. – madam president, i have listened very carefully in these late hours of the evening to the commissioner’s concerns and ideas and am sure that the commission will put all efforts into ensuring that this facility will be properly implemented. but its success, to be very honest, relies mainly on the member states, and it can only happen through more transparency, better involvement of stakeholders and strong monitoring tools. rest assured, the parliament will continue its oversight. we will not stop the activity of our working group. we will soon start our work to ensure that the repowereu, as you have mentioned, is properly introducing the objectives of this facility. it is in indeed an important appeal that goes towards the commission – and thank you very much for your openness on that: we truly hope that you will fully take into account the views adopted today in the upcoming review report on the implementation of the rrf, which you will soon present to us. one last word relating to how the rrf is seen outside the eu. it is an exercise of economic governance, of accountability, of legitimacy and, even more important, an exercise in which we would like to give a model worldwide. i have been attending two high—level conferences at united nations level, and it’s very important to say that the international community looks at the rrf as an important model of how to deal with crises and to boost resilience. the sendai framework that relates to disaster risk reduction, and all the other things that are done right now – and we had the earlier debate on sdgs – are very much linked to how we how successful we will be with the rrf. so the european union, of course, needs the rrf for its internal development, but it is also very important to give a model worldwide that will put the eu leadership again in the right place at the global level. i would like to thank my co-rapporteurs, siegfried mureşan and eider gardiazabal, and all the shadows, the commission and all the people that have worked towards preparation and adoption of this report.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. programmes such as erasmus have opened the door to european integration for many. they have laid the foundations for a common educational culture. but we must look at it as a beginning. to really support young people, we need to go ahead and develop programmes that also target young people and teachers in disadvantaged areas, people with limited material resources or people with special conditions. erasmus+ needs to evolve in line with the experience of previous years and become more inclusive in order to create non-discriminatory conditions of participation. at the same time, we need to ensure that teachers are encouraged to get involved to help their students implement projects. erasmus+ is a programme we need to promote among young people who can see what the european union means, what unites us, and to combat euroscepticism and sceptics in practice.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, with montenegro we have a country that is a real jewel, that has a fantastic natural and cultural heritage, and we have a country that has a minority government, and this in balkan regions. i think this is very exceptional. but having a minority government that is counting on such a broad support in the skupština, the local parliament, is really exceptional. and what is keeping that government running is the unified and united will to join the european union as fast as possible. and if we look at our role in the balkan region, the european union has unfortunately lost a lot of credibility through not meeting the promises or at least the hopes that we were creating in the region. and if there is one country of western balkans where we can show that there is a path into the european union, that there is a light at the end of the tunnel – yes, if you do your homework, if you meet the criteria, if you do your job well – if there is one country, this is montenegro. and with montenegro, we should accelerate our efforts now to talk about accession, to close chapters. and i see a big willingness on the montenegrin side, but they are also counting on our support, also to support them to rebuild capacities which have been lost in the past, to negotiate. and it will be also on our side to do our utmost to accelerate the talks, to accelerate the negotiations. i am convinced that we can finalise all the chapters within two years and have montenegro joining as the 28th member of the european union, honouring the country for its merits, but also showing the whole western balkan regions that if you do your homework, there is a perspective, and you will join us in the european family in the european union.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if i tell you that i am ranked 20th in the world, you may think i am referring to the atp rankings or to some other sporting ranking. well, no, i won't. according to an article in the british newspaper the independent, this is the ranking of the fortune of the former montenegrin president dukanović among the world's political leaders; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. however, driven by the desire to strengthen european hegemony in the field of foreign affairs and to move towards its federalisation, you want to integrate montenegro at all costs. your obstinacy leads you to unlimited hypocrisy. so you are constantly denouncing foreign interference in montenegro, but you are increasingly calling for the european union to intervene and pour its ideology into the country. you condemn the serb minority for demonstrating, but you turn a blind eye to the state-sponsored violence, of which this serb minority is often the victim. finally, you stress the desire of the montenegrin people to join the european union, but you ignore the refusal of the citizens of the member states to join. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. of course, the enlargement of the european union, as we know, is aimed at the dissolution of peoples and nations.
madam president, i consider it very important that in my first speech here today i can emphasise the importance of the european union's enlargement policy. the progress report on montenegro is clear. it welcomes in particular the country's commitment to european integration, but without respect for the rule of law, the consistent implementation of electoral and judicial reforms and the active fight against organised crime and corruption, there will be no progress at all. i would like the country to do so as soon as possible, in order to be able to close any of the open chapters, and to maintain its status as the leading country in the region when it comes to the enlargement process. the new and the only government in europe led by a representative of a minority gives me cause for optimism. mostly because of her european perspective. and at the same time, we need a strong pro-european stance as a message, a basic message coming from this region. ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget as representatives of the european union that we need the region and the region needs us. now is the moment, now is the time. so we welcome the progress of black mountain.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, dear rapporteur, thank you very much for the very constructive and forward—looking discussion. today’s debate to us recalls once more that the eu treats the western balkans as privileged partners and that we are committed to advancing montenegro’s eu path. the future of the western balkans and montenegro of course lies in the eu, but we need also montenegro to speed up the work with which they have been lagging behind, especially when it comes to the fundamentals. we will continue to be montenegro’s first political, trade and economic partner, and we think that montenegro, although it is in a good track, but it needs to do more and faster.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank all colleagues for tonight’s debate but above all, my colleagues the shadow rapporteurs for their great contribution to this report and for excellent cooperation. tonight, the european parliament once again showed its full support for the european future of montenegro. i am more than convinced that montenegro has the capacity to overcome the current problems outlined in the report. it knew how to prove it in the past, and i have no doubt montenegro will be able to do it again in the future. continuously high support of citizens for eu membership binds political options, and they should be stimulated to cooperate to achieve that trans-party goal. in this context, mr commissioner, i would like your prediction to be fulfilled that by the end of your term, our term, at least one country in the western balkans will conclude negotiations on eu membership. it would be a common endeavour and an important sign that the european union remains an open project.
in writing. montenegro, with a population of 620 200, has long been a favourite among the balkan countries for eu membership. however, despite relative prosperity, the country faces a number of economic and social challenges. i was one of the first meps to express concern about the sword of damocles of the loan obtained for a motorway project by chinese companies. the project, which is lagging behind, is a scandal from the financial and environmental point of view, since it would have already damaged the area around the tara river, which is recognised by unesco. i also recently recalled the country's delays in its citizenship-for-investment programme, which should have been abolished by now. finally, we cannot ignore the serious religious dissensions around the serbian orthodox church, which will have marked the end of 2019. in short, there are too many uncertainties at the moment for this country, which will have received from the european union, to catch up, the handsome sum of 504.9 million euros, between 2007 and 2020.
in writing. european integration of the western balkans region should be a top priority. montenegro has been an official candidate for membership of the european union since 2010 and a member of nato since 2017. in the current tense political and economic crisis in europe and the world, it is essential that the union is able to show its strength and solidarity, to give voice to it. in the light of all this, we cannot delay further the promotion of the accession of the western balkan region to the union. for many years montenegro has been actively pursuing the eu's system of institutional, legal, economic and political expectations. it has been able to deliver on almost all the expected points, so that the eu is now more in doubt than the candidate's credibility. the roma communities in the western balkans region, and thus in montenegro, have been waiting for years for the resources provided by eu strategies to arrive, for the opportunities provided by common eu policy. we have a responsibility to all minorities in europe, including the members of the roma communities in montenegro. it's time to finally act, to take montenegro's integration to the next level. the future of the european union lies in accelerating the integration of the western balkans!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow reporters. we have had a very good and, above all, constructive cooperation, and i am proud of the joint result we have now achieved. the content of our report was the result of intensive cooperation with renowned african experts who shared with us their vision of future economic cooperation between our two world regions in a hearing and a series of workshops. with this report we are giving the european union, but also the african union and its member states, a clear position from the european parliament. we are in favour of a partnership on an equal footing, building directly on the joint declaration of the eu-au summit in february this year. so let us set our priorities together. we must make our policies, and especially trade policy, part of the common objective of achieving the un sustainable development goals by 2030. and the overcoming of poverty, the prosperity of the african continent is a self-interest of the european union. we are therefore called upon to make efforts to jointly build value chains within africa, including modern and environmentally friendly technologies, in support of the african union's vision of a sustainable industrialisation of the continent. our report makes it clear that the main objective must be to promote trade within africa. this primacy is also to be observed in our support for the development of infrastructure. intra-african trade requires transport infrastructure, it requires cold chains and warehouses, it requires communication networks and data highways. and let me emphasize once again: the driving force behind africa's economic transformation is women and youth, whom we should support in a targeted and proactive way with new ideas and concrete proposals. intra-african trade also requires facilitation of customs and customs clearance within the continent. the european parliament, in this report, is also supporting the african project of the continental free trade area (afcfta). we respect the ambitions of the project, which secretary-general wamkele mene assured us were aimed at sustainability and the creation of well-paid jobs, including the introduction of free movement of people in africa, and thus go far beyond a normal trade agreement. trade in and with africa is far too fragmented today. i believe that the european union is contributing to this problem, as long as we do not at least harmonize the rules of origin for the whole continent. the rules that the afcfta member countries have just agreed among themselves should serve as a guide. in this context, parliament calls on the commission to undertake a thorough analysis of the existing economic partnership agreements (epas) to determine whether they are helping or hindering the african integration process. i think we should not cling to the 20-year-old concept of the epa and its logic, but rather embrace this new dynamic of the african free trade area. we may also need to listen better and look for the conversation. we therefore recommend that the commission hold regular structured meetings with the african union commission to discuss together the next concrete steps in cooperation. so much for the introduction. i look forward to hearing the comments of the shadow rapporteurs and the other participants in the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, on behalf of the executive vice-president dombrovskis let me give you our preliminary remarks. today’s debate on the future of eu-africa trade relations is crucial as it comes at a time of unprecedented geopolitical tensions created by the aggression of russia against ukraine and, as underlined in your draft report, the commission will closely monitor the impact of the war, especially on food supplies to the poorest countries in africa. the relationship with africa is a priority for the eu. we remain its first development assistance donor and trading partner, accounting for 26% of africa’s total trade in 2021. we are by far its largest export market ahead of china, india and the us, and the main provider of foreign direct investment. africa is a dynamic continent in demographic and economic terms and rich in natural resources. in 2021, the african development bank noted that africa’s economy was quick to rebound following the pandemic, and its real gdp growth was near to 7%. at a time of mounting insecurity and threats, wars, terrorism, uncontrolled migration and environmental degradation, trade policy can contribute to fostering stability, common values and essential human and social rights by building strategic interdependencies between the eu and african countries. our strengthened partnership with africa will help to foster economic diversification and inclusive growth. the recent eu—african union summit recognised that our trade agreements contributed to the deepening of trade between the two continents and that we should continue to work towards the progressive and mutually—beneficial integration of our markets. that is the long—term goal of a two—continent free trade agreement based on successful implementation of the african continental free trade area, which builds on africa’s regional economic communities and the economic partnership agreements, many of which have been signed with the eu. support for economic integration is one of the key objectives of these agreements, and the eu, together with member states, is strongly committed to accompany our african partners under the team europe initiative on economic integration ‘support to the african continental free trade area’ which covers, among other areas, quality infrastructure and market access, trade facilitation across strategic corridors, trade in services, competition, digital trade and intellectual property rights. your draft report rightly insists on sustainable development. the commission shares this priority and is promoting sustainable development through its dialogues under economic partnership agreements, the sustainable cocoa initiative and the recently—started negotiations on sustainable investment facilitation agreements. the funding under the eu africa global gateway investment package of eur 150 billion will also help to meet sustainability objectives, while using a team europe approach. as a follow up to the summit, the commission is now working on setting up a high—level dialogue on trade and economic integration. it will be an important channel of communication, especially in the light of current challenges. the commission is also working on the possibility of harmonising rules of origin. this would complement the support that the commission is also providing to african partners, in cooperation with the world customs organisation, for the effective implementation of the african continental free trade area rules of origin and support to the development and strengthening of value chains in africa. finally, your draft report also puts emphasis on modernising the economic partnership agreements. these agreements have enabled us to build a predictable trade relationship with african countries, which is highly appreciated by businesses both in the eu and in africa. these agreements must help to improve, increase and even further intra-african trade and support the african continental free trade area process. the commission will continue to work effectively to implement the economic partnership agreements and to widen them geographically and deepen their content with african partners that are willing to do so. this will allow us to reap the full benefits of our trade and investment relations while promoting international environment standards in line with the eu green deal and the universal values of human rights, including labour rights, which the eu strongly promotes globally with all its partners. i am looking forward to hear your views.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – madam president, i very much welcome this draft report on the future of eu—africa trade relations. the relationships of the past, unfortunately, have been based on brutality and exploitation, and we need to do so, so much better. and i want to say gut gemacht to helmut for a draft report that i think is excellent. i am pleased to see so much of the agri opinion included. the report comes at a crucial time with the war in ukraine. agri—food exports to africa are valued at eur 17.6 billion, and imports from africa are valued at eur 16.5 billion. that was in 2020. the report supports trade based on agricultural products which show respect for biodiversity, and fighting against overexploitation. it also promotes resilient and sustainable agriculture, recognises the strategic importance of african rangelands and also their massive importance to carbon sequestration. it also looks for a reduction in pesticides and very importantly highlights the inconsistencies of exporting products banned in the eu. this must stop. it also supports stronger policy coherence at eu level in agri—food trade. all of these words are very good, but we’ve actually got to do it: we can’t just be talking about it. this is important. we’ve got to put words into action.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work. africa must be a priority continent for the european union. we are all aware of the enormous potential of their markets and also of their complex and diverse reality. africa is growing economically and demographically and has natural resources, is increasingly promoting trade integration and has a roadmap for reforms towards more stable institutional frameworks and greater security. but above all, it must make an effort to lay the political foundations necessary for development. european companies, and smes in particular, cannot afford to be left out of these business opportunities. we must promote public-private partnerships of a trilateral nature and certainly we must address the management of migration flows. looking at what is happening around us today, such as russia's invasion of ukraine or china's positioning in the region, should reassure us in our conviction that we cannot forget our commitment to this continent. for them and for us.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the covid-19 pandemic, the war in ukraine and the geopolitical changes that have become evident present new challenges to africa-eu relations. our trade and economic relations must be put on a new footing. the economic partnership agreements no longer offer sufficient prospects. what is needed is a new partnership on equal footing, one that takes seriously the new self-confidence of african states. the central reference point should be the continental free trade area decided by the african union. this is not free trade in the traditional sense. the continental free trade area is an effort to strengthen intra-african trade, to establish and expand intra-regional value chains between different african states, and thus to provide comprehensive support to the economy on the african continent. a partnership on equal footing must not be limited to trade. we need more. we need much closer cooperation in agriculture to ensure food security in africa on a lasting basis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the strengthening of small farming in africa will be central to this. we also need climate partnerships. many african countries are suffering from the dramatic effects of climate change, which is largely caused by the industrialized countries of the north. it is therefore our duty to support african countries in combating and adapting to climate change. both require a significant increase in european investment in african states. in this context, it will be particularly important to invest together with african partners to increase value creation and employment in african states. in the next few years, it will be necessary to not only repeatedly invoke this new partnership at eye level in summits and speeches, but also to put it into practice in concrete projects.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ukrainian crisis has finally made the european union realize how important its relationship with africa is, a continent which is home to 24% of the world's arable land, huge reserves of natural resources and energy, and a population which will soon exceed two billion, a quarter of the world's population. it is a pity that while the eu was sleeping, powers like china stole our privileged partner status, taking over african lands and infrastructure, covering their debts and in return taking control of natural resources, strategic assets and even imposing the study of chinese in schools. our response to this colonization should be a development aid plan that restores the right of africans to live in their own land, in exchange for geopolitical cooperation that makes europe and africa the sole protagonists of stability and prosperity in the mediterranean. what you are proposing to them are partnership agreements tied to the achievement of goals of ecological and digital transition or gender equality, which have little to do with the real urgencies of an underdeveloped and hungry continent, demonstrating once again how the strategy of the european union is clouded by ideology and detached from reality.
mr. commissioner, i would like to thank the president of the commission, and the members of the european parliament. the european union and africa share important and long-standing political, economic and cultural links. there is no doubt that an economic approach is needed that treats africa not merely as a recipient of aid, humanitarian donations, but as an economic partner of the eu. but it is equally important that the european union supports africa in improving living conditions so that people do not want to leave their continent en masse. one of the most unfavourable effects of the measures taken so far is that the waves of migration reaching europe have been steadily increasing in recent years. it is time for change, for the european union to focus on creating the conditions for stability. we must ensure that the african people remain in their homelands in dignified conditions and, for their own development, become a market for european goods, services and the knowledge-based economy, with a view to mutual benefits.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there can never be a genuine trade partnership with africa unless sanctions, which are often unhistorical, are lifted against certain countries and unless a clear decision is taken to combat the phenomenon of jihadist insurgency. the jihadist insurgency, which has been escalating in cabo delgado since 2017, is spilling over into neighboring countries, and the attacks in tanzania last saturday are proof of this, despite the deployment of troops to counter the jihadist phenomenon. the european union is not taking any clear action against this phenomenon, despite the fact that some countries, such as zimbabwe, have decided to make the fight against jihadism their flag. and president macron has understood this, so much so that he met with the president of zimbabwe, and our colleague elmar brok will be going to that country to look at the situation in the light of the 2023 presidential elections, and the european investment fund has also allocated over 12.5 million euros for local entrepreneurs. this is good, but it is time to discuss the legitimacy of maintaining sanctions that are blocking the economy of this country, which, i repeat, is the only country that is really fighting a great battle against jihadism. we can't wait for this to escalate.
madam president, commissioner, the own-initiative report on the future of trade relations between europe and africa, which is being discussed today, was a great opportunity. the european union, africa and its peoples have much to gain from a partnership between equals that affirms a multilateral strategy of cooperation, in which the commercial dimension is one of the essential pillars. the european union and the african union have repeatedly stated their commitment to a joint vision, a vision based on a strategy that is a partnership for sustainable and inclusive development. trade relations between the european union and africa must take account of the new geopolitical context, in which strategic autonomy is the necessary basis for making healthy economic and political cooperation possible and developing trade links, as has been the desire of both sides. the entry into force of the african continental free trade area strengthens the potential for cooperation between the union and africa at a time when programmes such as global europe and global gateway are also in their launching phase. the comprehensive recommendations in this report in this context therefore contribute to mitigating the negative impacts that the ongoing war in ukraine is already having on sustainable development, wealth creation and the well-being of the people.
madam president, commissioner, i agree with the comments earlier of ms bricmont and ms rafaela that we are embarked on a new era of partnership between the eu and africa, and it is truly welcome. however, i just want to address my comments very briefly on the trade aspects of the immediate food security issue. we’ve heard, i think all of us, from the world food programme and fao who have outlined many times proposals about how to avert famine and whether that can happen. the european council in its conclusions last month addressed for the first time this question and reiterated, and i quote, ‘its commitment to keep global trade in food commodities free of unjustified trade barriers’. and minister beaune, earlier in his comments here in the hemicycle, mentioned the urgent need to maximise the export of food commodities. now there is a debate going on here in the european parliament, in the institutions more generally, whether the eu should require reciprocity of production standards in agri—food imports from third countries. and my plea is that we must be mindful of the possible impacts of such measures on developing countries, and in particular the message it could send.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for your remarks. taking into account the new global challenges, this commission is adapting its trade strategy with africa, including the need to promote more sustainable trade and investment, both between our continents and within africa. new partnerships on energy supply, access to and sustainable management of critical raw materials, and food security for africa should be prioritised in this context. the eu grants to many african countries unilateral tariff concessions under the generalised scheme of preferences and notably its everything but arms arrangement for the least developed countries. we will in the future look more closely at the progress countries are making to respect the basic principles of all the underlying international conventions. but even so, trade and sustainable investment facilitation agreements remain the main platforms of our engagement with african partners. the focus now is on the implementation and modernisation of these instruments. we need to secure better ownership of economic partnership agreements and the support of this parliament will be crucial in this respect.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i am grateful to the commissioner for the excellent report, and i am also grateful to the rapporteur for the excellent report. i agree with a lot of things, but i disagree with some things. but our report - and i want to emphasize this again - is not blind to the hunger and poverty of large sections of the african population. the russian aggression against ukraine has dramatically exacerbated the situation, but the causes of hunger and poverty on the african continent are more diverse and have been manifest for a long time. speculation is also driving up food prices in this crisis, so that aid agencies are no longer able to purchase enough supplies for their budgets. more than 80 million people in east africa alone are at risk of famine. climate change, you might add, is the destruction of the environment. the war in west africa has prevented farmers in large parts of mali from cultivating their fields. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the matter. we recommend that agroecological reforms be given room. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the developing countries. finally, but necessarily certainly now, by preventing climate change and preserving biodiversity and making the most intensive joint efforts to get this started. because what and how will the next generation on the african continent say about our politics and our economic relations and concrete cooperation, when there will be 2.5 billion people living there in 20 to 25 years? climate partnerships, that is, eu investment activities - you mentioned the global gateway again - require the equal involvement of decision-makers on the african continent, at all levels, at national level, at the level of the african union, but also at local, regional and stakeholder level. africa is a continent of hope, i mean. africa is the continent of youth, and our european continent is sadly ageing. the need and the opportunity for both of us therefore lie in cooperation, in which we should invest far more than has been envisaged so far, that is, in the coherence of the policies we want to put in place together, and perhaps also in working together on the reform of the world trade organisation. in this sense, i hope our report will be an important guide for this work.
thank you so much for your work, mr scholz, on the future of eu-africa trade relations. the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow.
the next item is the short presentation of the report by anna cavazzini on the future of eu international investment policy (2021/2176(ini)) (a9-0166/2022).
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the report, indeed, on the teamwork, and all the alternative rapporteurs who have taken part in its preparation. i would like to stress that the priorities of my political group, the s&d group, are perfectly captured in the text of the report and in the commitments we have made. it is very important for us to defend the european union's competence in investment policy and the modernisation of this policy, in which this parliament and my political group have played a leading role, both in favour of transparency and in favour of ending the system of investor-state dispute settlement based on arbitration, which is unacceptable, and replacing it with the new system of the multilateral investment tribunal, which is to be the future for resolving disputes. we are in favour of a thorough reform of the energy charter treaty so that it actually complies with the principles of sustainable development, the european green deal, the defence of human rights and makes it possible to put an end to the transition from fossil fuels. we hope that tomorrow a large majority will support this report, as has happened in the committee on international trade.
madam president, commissioner, i sincerely regret that this important project is being discussed in such a short time, without the time allotted and at such a late hour. i think we should be interested in the future of international investment, in the policy we are pursuing on international investment, because yes, and in my country i have seen exactly what the rapporteur was saying here: heavy money is sometimes paid from national budgets for investments that have not respected the conditions of ethics and fairness in that country, on an equal footing with domestic investors, and the member states cannot win, because, yes, you go to arbitration before going to the national courts. that is why i believe that first of all the commission - we have no right to legislate - the council must come up with a legislative act and a new policy on international investment. yes, we need them in the european union, but on fair and ethical terms.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, on behalf of executive vice-president dombrovskis, let me give you our statement. today’s debate comes at a moment where investments more than ever are crucial for the eu’s recovery. foreign direct investment also plays a key role in achieving our open strategic autonomy and our access to essential inputs such as energy. the eu remains the first outward investor in the world and a major destination for foreign direct investments. the eu offers a very attractive and open market to foreign investments, and through our investment facilitation, liberalisation and protection agreements we ensure that eu companies also operate on a level playing field in third countries. eu investors, more than any other foreign investors, decisively contribute to the sustainable development of the host countries, notably in the eu neighbourhood and africa. i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms anna cavazzini, and the shadow rapporteurs for this draft resolution. as you acknowledged, the eu investment policy has significantly adapted and expanded to address concerns faced by eu investors and to take into account eu policy priorities. our investment policy is also adapting to new political realities and challenges, but the draft resolution is mainly forward—looking. in particular, the draft resolution encourages the commission to continue negotiating investment liberalisation commitments to ensure the best possible market access conditions for prospective and existing eu investors. the draft resolution also supports the negotiations on investment facilitation for development in the world trade organisation so as to help developing countries attract and retain investment. the commission is playing a proactive role in those negotiations. on investment protection, the eu fundamentally reformed its approach to ensure the highest standards of legitimacy, transparency and balance in its treaty practice. that reform covered both the investment protection standards and the dispute settlement mechanisms. the draft resolution welcomes the eu’s reformed approach on investment protection, but also calls for further adjustments to address new challenges, in particular climate change. this includes considerations on the sectoral coverage of our agreements, on the role of stakeholders beyond investors, or on how to calculate compensations for the eu. investment policy is constantly evolving to match the eu’s policy priorities. the commission considers that eu—level investment agreements are fully compatible with the green deal and the green transition. notably, our investment agreements include commitments on sustainable development taken by both parties, for instance on matters such as responsible business conduct and the respect of environmental, human rights and labour standards. they are also explicit about the right of governments to pursue legitimate public policy objectives, including the fight against climate change. finally, the draft resolution also points to the existence of unreformed bilateral investment treaties by member states. those agreements contain certain incompatibilities with eu law and inconsistencies with the eu investment policy. the commission supports the renegotiation efforts by these member states. as long as those treaties are not renegotiated or replaced by eu—level agreements, they will remain in place. in that respect, parliament has done its part in terms of ratification of the ceta and singapore and vietnam investment protection agreements, but we also need parliaments of the member states to do their part of the work. again, it is important to highlight that the eu’s reformed approach on investment protection is largely the outcome of a strong call from the european parliament. this is what led the commission to propose the more balanced and transparent investment court system, but also to calibrate the standards of investment protection so as to avoid the unwanted impact of the interpretation of eu agreements. the commission takes note of the recommendations for further actions and will carefully examine each of them. honourable members, it remains necessary to negotiate and implement disciplines on international investments. eu investors face difficulties when investing abroad, and investment is necessary to reach the sustainable development goals, as well as for the eu’s open strategic autonomy. eu investment agreements do not confer more rights to foreign investors than what is granted under domestic law. the scope of protection in eu agreements corresponds to the minimum treatment afforded to any company in the eu under the rule of law. finally, the commission thanks you for your support to our reformed approach and to the evolution of the eu investment policy. it is clear that the eu’s investment policy is not static and needs to take into account citizens concerns and priorities.
thank you mr commissioner, and thanks to the rapporteur for introducing such an interesting topic, and the colleagues that are here, for the future of eu international investments. that concludes the item. the vote will be held tomorrow.
the next item is the short presentation of the report by karlo ressler on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2022 of the european union for the financial year 2022 – financing reception costs of people fleeing ukraine (09095/2022 - c9-0182/2022 - 2022/0126(bud)) (a9-0181/2022).
madam president, commissioner, i would really like to thank my dear colleague, karlo ressler, for the excellent work he has done on a matter which concerns us all: the consequences of a brutal russian invasion of ukraine which has created thousands of ukrainian refugees. the european union must stand by these people, because we sympathize with the ukrainian refugees as no one else can, because we have been experiencing the same turkish invasion and occupation and displacement for 48 years. i fully understand the suffering, the pain, the groaning and the cross that the ukrainian people are carrying, because i too, at the age of eleven, in 1974, was forced to leave my home, to abandon my property and to flee and remain to this day a refugee because of a brutal turkish invasion and occupation. the european union must stand by those who suffer from any kind of invasion. the russian invasion of ukraine has created this enormous humanitarian drama and the european union must support it with all its strength. at the same time, i call on the european union to support the greek cypriot refugees, who are still surviving in the refugee camp and have received no financial support. we support the ukrainian people with all our strength and we will continue to the end to restore this enormous injustice done to the ukrainian people.
madam president, commissioner, beyond the arguments presented by the rapporteur, mr ressler, i think it is essential to understand the context. i've been to ukraine three times, and i've taken over 30 tons of aid to those affected by the war in different parts of ukraine. in my family, we held over 10 refugees for two months in our own home. i know the realities there very well. that is why i wanted to speak, because i believe that every effort we make in this period is worth all our involvement, given that we must not forget one essential issue: the european dream is dying in ukraine today and our response must be commensurate with expectations.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must not leave the member states and the ukrainian refugees alone in this unprecedented situation. that's why we've amended, look, the european budget for 2022 to make sure that there's enough money to deal with these challenges related to the war in ukraine. the funds will cover part of the costs and efforts made by member states and will help, we hope, to improve the european response. increased attention will also be given to states bordering ukraine, including romania, to finance, for example, the humanitarian hub. last but not least, local and county authorities will be able to benefit from additional financial resources. however, we need a concrete plan for future financing needs and financial support for the indirect effects of the war in ukraine, especially on the states in the region. some 40% of europeans believe that the war has affected their living standards and want the european union to intervene to keep energy and food prices at acceptable levels. this requires new european resources and urgent action.
member of the commission. – madam president, again, on behalf of executive vice-president dombrovskis, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ressler, for supporting the proposal. now the proposal for the draft amending budget no 3/2022 comes at a time when the russian war of aggression against ukraine creates an unprecedented human tragedy. ukraine is now on everyone’s mind. russia’s war is a blatant disregard of international law and has global repercussions on food security, energy and the economy. since the fateful 24 february, the eu has significantly stepped up its support to ukraine’s overall economic, social and financial resilience. the eu has provided macro-financial assistance, budget support, emergency assistance, crisis response and humanitarian aid, as well as military assistance measures under the european peace facility. the current proposal for draft amending budget no 3 is a part of the eur 1 billion pledge made by president von der leyen at the global pledging event ‘stand up for ukraine’ in warsaw on 9 april this year. to be more precise, eur 600 million of that pledge were dedicated to ukraine, with a large majority directly supporting the ukrainian authorities to continue providing basic services to the population. the remaining eur 400 million of the pledge was foreseen for the member states most directly impacted by the consequences of the war, to provide immediate support to people arriving in the union. the commission proposed that the eu budget provides eur 400 million for the first reception and registration costs under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the border management and visa instrument (bmvi), of which eur 100 million will become available after the adoption of the draft amending budget. the other parts of the package have already been approved. so this is the final piece. the support to the first reception and registration systems of the most affected member states under the amif aims to ensure that people fleeing ukraine can benefit from adequate first reception, food, shelter, sanitation, clothing, medicine, family tracing, legal and translation assistance, psychosocial and other specialised services leading to their registration in one of the member states. measures proposed under the bmvi will provide funding to the member states bordering ukraine to allow for the smooth application of procedures at or near the external borders, such as identification, fingerprinting, registration, security checks, medical and vulnerability screening of third country nationals, as well as for immediate reception needs throughout these procedures. we ask parliament to support this proposal. it would make the necessary funds available to address some of the immediate needs and consequences of russia’s unprovoked and unjustified war of aggression against ukraine. this is, however, not the end. the situation keeps evolving day by day, and the future is still unclear. the commission will keep this house fully informed about the possible further proposals as soon as they are finalised.
thank you, commissioner. the item is closed and the vote will be held tomorrow.
the next item is the one—minute speeches on matters of political importance. i would like to inform you also that you are invited to take the floor from where you sit.
madam president, commissioner, it is my duty as a member of the european parliament, as a european citizen, to condemn with all the strength of my soul the new provocative aggressive actions of turkey against cyprus and greece. turkey, in open violation of the resolutions of the united nations, the security council and the european parliament, is in fact proceeding in an expansive and aggressive manner with the colonization of famagusta, opening up new areas. the european union is also prepared to take action to help the victims of the cyprus crisis. at a time when there is a russian invasion and instability in europe, turkey is trying to create new instability in the eastern mediterranean, and also against greece. it has even threatened to attack greek islands. it is trying to challenge greek islands, which have been greek for centuries, and create grey areas. turkey is competing with russia in terms of expansion today and the european union must, if it is not to face similar situations, intervene now, and it can do so. the european union cannot be lenient with turkey and not impose sanctions. the european union cannot, when turkey behaves in a similarly criminal manner as russia has behaved towards ukraine, fail to take action against it and continue to finance it. the european union's member countries cannot help attila in cyprus and turkey in their aggressive attitude against greece. i believe that it is time for the european union to adopt the same position towards turkey's new expansionist aggressive actions in the mediterranean and against greece as it has taken towards russia's invasion of ukraine.
madam president, commissioner, we must be firmly anchored to reality. we're talking about bills that have skyrocketed, unprecedented inflation, people on the verge of poverty, war right next to us. we have a hard winter coming, and we have to be prepared for it. little will cut off the gas to europe and we don't have many solutions. it's not the time to be optimistic. we have to be realistic, we have to act. we're in the twelfth hour. romania needs to take rational steps to ensure its energy independence for the coming winter. we need to increase gas stocks, continue coal mining and restart coal-fired power plants. we need to allocate subsidies to support vulnerable citizens who are heating themselves with firewood. we're talking about a temporary force situation. before we can give up on energy sources that work, we need to have a truly viable alternative.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tonight i want to talk about the rights of hauliers, freight forwarders, within the european union market. we have received many petitions and recently i was on a visit from the tran commission to france to see whether or not the mobility package that we voted on here is having a negative effect. and yes, we found that, as i said in the mobility package debates, we have unsecured parking. i remember a year ago, a romanian tow truck driver was killed in a parking lot. not much has happened since then, the investigation is not over. truck drivers also complain of unjustified and unbalanced controls. i have asked and i am asking, commissioner, i wrote to the commission recently, for statistics to be available in all the member states on the frequency of checks on cars, on the number of fires, depending on the country of origin. i have concrete petitions that in france, for example, they frequently control the firings from bulgaria, from romania, from the eastern countries. i think there should be such a statistic. i don't think there should be discrimination and i also think we should ensure equal conditions of transport. drivers are required to read the documents in french, english, german. we talked about the need to have documents in the language of the country, because we can't force a driver to know 24 languages.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of moldova deserves to be granted the status of candidate country to the european union, a clear and well-defined status, and in the context of the threat posed by the russian federation, it must be said that we cannot afford ambiguities or conditionality. the efforts of the republic of moldova in the context of the war in ukraine, the support of the population for the european path and the solidarity shown by the citizens of moldova confirm their attachment to european values and our vision of the world. that is why meps in all political groups and, i must say, especially those from romania, have said very clearly that moldova deserves this status alongside ukraine and, we hope, even georgia. but the road to european union membership will not be easy. reforms will be needed, but also european financial resources. the economic and social effects of the war in ukraine have affected the stability of the country and led to a very high pressure on the population. the financial commitments of the european union and the international community must therefore be rapidly realised. with a favourable decision of the european council, we will take a historic step, both for the republic of moldova and for the european union.
madam president, commissioner, during my term of office we have seen many crises, but unfortunately in recent years we have seen several regions of the european union depopulate, with young citizens preferring to emigrate to richer states and regions. we need to get serious about this phenomenon, especially since those who are left behind are so desperately in need of help. it's not enough to just observe the phenomenon. in particular, clear strategies are needed for the development of these areas, to build basic infrastructure that can provide decent living conditions and increase the attractiveness of these areas for investors. however, european funds are not enough to stop the exodus of young people, but we need to pass on the necessary knowledge to local authorities so that these funds can be absorbed as quickly and efficiently as possible. and in these poor regions, there are europeans, and they need us, our support and our attention.
madam president, i wish to address the commissioner. mr commissioner, the digital green certificate was the first instrument imposed by ursula von der leyen that is leading to the chinafication of europe and to a digital tyranny. in 2021 commissioner didier reynders said it right here in this plenary that parliament needs to move fast, without debates, to pass the green certificate in order to save people. the majority of the meps believed that false narrative and voted in favour of the green certificate. the usage of this certificate in the last year proved that the real purpose of it did not have any medical reasons, but was actually to domesticate the eu citizens into compliance and submission. from an area of freedom, as the treaty states, the eu became a place where people could not go to work, to travel, to receive healthcare or to use mass transportation unless they had a green certificate, which they obtained in one case if they were vaccinated with the medical product that we see now is causing side effects, including fatalities. the green certificate violated everything that the eu stood for and created a dangerous precedent that must end now, which is why all the meps must vote against it once and for all.
in writing. russia's invasion of ukraine and the interruption of gas supplies to poland and bulgaria remind us of the need to diversify the eu's energy supply from a single supplier. eu countries need to promote measures to enhance energy efficiency. the efficient use of existing infrastructure, including cross-border transmission capacities, underground gas storage facilities and liquefied natural gas facilities, is an important factor in ensuring security of gas supply in a spirit of solidarity. when filling their storage facilities, member states should aim at diversifying their gas suppliers with a view to reducing their dependence where this may jeopardise the security of energy supply or the essential security interests of the union or the member states. the operation of new lng terminals in cyprus and greece, as well as the eastmed pipeline, will make a significant contribution to achieving this objective and to the eu's overall energy independence from russian energy sources.
in writing. the revision of the european gas supply regulation is a good thing, but it is a step too late. it is important that the european commission, which is steeped in green ideology, has finally recognised the role of natural gas storage in protecting against energy price shocks. sadly, this insight has had to be brought about by the worst energy crisis in decades. the motion before the house is a victory for common sense for two reasons. on the one hand, it was possible to prevent the brussels plan, which would have made the countries with large storage facilities, such as hungary, pay the price of european energy security. on the other hand, the united action of the member states has also enabled us to break the brussels bubble, another experiment in gas storage. hungary and europe's secure energy supply is a red line for us in all proposals. we will not allow brussels to make decisions that harm families based on abstract ideologies.
in writing. it is of the utmost importance to ensure the security of gas supply to the european union in the context of russian military aggression against ukraine which has led to unprecedented increases in the price of natural gas. member states shall ensure that their underground gas storage facilities are at least 80% full by 1 november 2022 and 90% full for subsequent years. very importantly, i support the possibility for member states to buy gas jointly from third countries, which will strengthen their bargaining power vis-à-vis gas suppliers and allow them to buy at appropriate prices. i encourage all member states to participate in joint procurement, as, beyond the practical aspects, we send a strong message of unity and solidarity.
madam president, she is a prime minister and i think it is welcome that the european union is responding to these expectations that exist on the part of moldova and ukraine. i very much hope that the european council will also follow the message that parliament and the commission have sent, namely to offer a very clear prospect of accession to ukraine and the republic of moldova. the european dream is dying there today and it is very important that our message be crowned by a message of encouragement from the council.
madam president, i voted for this report. gas storage is a priority that we voted for. we are at a critical moment when we must be able to guarantee europe's energy security for all citizens. we have a hard winter coming, and we have to be prepared for it. a little, for sure, will cut off the gas to europe. what urgent steps can we take now to avoid winter sickness? first, we need to secure the logistics for gas storage. despite numerous commitments, gas storage capacity in romania has not increased significantly over the last 30 years. we urgently need to modernize and properly equip the warehouses and mines where we will continue storage. we need to build new gas storage tanks quickly. we also need to temporarily restart coal-fired power plants and provide firewood subsidies for vulnerable citizens.
madam president, i believe that the recovery and resilience mechanism is a very useful tool and has been received positively in all member states, because after the public health crisis, we are now facing other crises, such as the humanitarian crisis, the security crisis, the crisis of rising energy prices and the effects this has on the economy. that is why i believe that the original plan which the european union has undertaken through this instrument must be constantly thought through and adapted to the realities we are going through, because, look, the prices which have increased enormously in the last period are putting a burden, a very strong pressure on the citizens. this is why i believe it is essential that recovery and resilience plans can be discussed at any time between member states and the commission so that they are as adapted as possible to the realities europe is facing today.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, dear commissioner dalli, dear colleagues, the crisis emerging from the covid-19 pandemic and the repercussions of the war in ukraine have disproportionately affected women. and yes, it is true, women suffered more. and i wish more colleagues would be here to join us for this important debate. it is dangerously jeopardising the progress made in the past few decades on reducing poverty and gender inequalities. to reverse this trend of the last couple of years, we must address the multidimensional root causes of women’s poverty and help their empowerment against pay inequality, discrimination, segregation, unpaid care, domestic labour and economic dependence. it is crucial to ensure that access to education, to training, to digital skills programmes and to create opportunities for the labour market, entrepreneurship and high career prospects. combining their participation with accessible and quality childcare support and essential pay transparency will help strengthen the principle of equal pay. we remain a long way from ending women’s poverty in europe, but we must continue our efforts to move closer to the goal. this report and the policies currently being discussed in parallel are a step in the direction and i am looking forward to the cooperation with the european commission for this particular cause.
madam president, commissioner, i congratulate the rapporteur on her report. i think it is a very important document, because it is about cooperation that the european union needs, as well as interpol, as we need ever more effective tools to combat human trafficking, to combat drug trafficking and, of course, to show russia where it belongs, as russia wants to continue to use this very effective and important tool to fight political opponents. and i think russia is a very real threat to the work of interpol, and from that point of view, i think it's more than welcome that we recommend that russia be restricted from working at interpol. i also think it is very important that european agencies have access to the interpol database. congratulations again to the reporter!
madam president, commissioner, recently, following the european council's announcement on the acquisition of eu candidate status for the republic of moldova, the parliament of romania and the parliament of the republic of moldova held a joint session of the two legislatures. i attended this event at the invitation of the european parliament. what surprised me, however, was the reaction of the former president of the russian federation, medvedev, this figurehead of putin, who criticized in very harsh terms a natural rapprochement between romania and the republic of moldova in the context of the european integration of this state. the threat from moscow does not frighten us, because our objective is that the republic of moldova is integrated into the european union, and here, in the european family, the romanian nation is reunited, as is natural, not as moscow wants.
madam president, commissioner, the commission's proposal on the sustainable use of plant protection products is not only not based on an impact study, but it is also putting farmers in romania and other countries who already use chemicals far below the european average on the back foot. my country, for example, would have to reduce its pesticide use by 35 percent, which would leave it with four times less than what is needed for an average yield per hectare. but under the same proposal, other countries will use far more pesticide than romania. the commission's proposal is unrealistic. sustainable production could remain a dream, food a luxury, and thousands of farmers at risk of bankruptcy. a realistic proposal should start from the simple premise of not destroying ourselves and from a question: do we really want to fill the gaps left by our farmers with imports of questionable standards and with a greater impact on the environment? i therefore ask the european commission to redress this injustice, to come up with a balanced proposal and to give the agricultural sectors in the different member states equal opportunities on the market.
madam president, ‘corruption is power without accountability’, said an anti-corruption expert from slovenia. the attitude of the european commission led by ursula von der leyen, clearly fits the description of corruption. billions of doses of vaccines were bought by ursula von der leyen’s commission based on contracts that were not fully disclosed, even to members of the european parliament, who should check on how she is spending people’s money. these doses must have cost tens of billions of euros, but we don’t know for sure because the contracts are not published. if this is not corruption, then what is? ursula von der leyen is there, is lecturing the eu member states on rule of law, but it is her, the first one who is not transparent with her activities, nor with how she’s spending people’s money. i demand, therefore, that if ursula von der leyen clearly believes in transparency to fully publish the contracts she has signed with the vaccine companies, so we will know all how much all these vaccines have cost.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president macron and the president of zimbabwe will meet in late august, which will be a sign of a return to normal relations between the european union and zimbabwe, culminating in the lifting of sanctions against certain individuals. the fact that zimbabwe is moving towards a positive assessment is also demonstrated by the holding of the by-elections, which saw the opposition win many seats, proving that the country is moving towards a new democratization, there were no clashes or accusations of fraud. it is therefore time for the european union, also in the light of the meeting with mr macron at the end of august, to lift the last sanctions against this country, which can really become a strong frontier against the advance of terrorism, jihadism - let us remember what happened in mogadishu - and we must put zimbabwe in a position to face the jihadist advance in the region.
madam vice-president, madam commissioner, in this mandate we have faced many challenges, and the european union has had to rethink its way of acting to deal with the challenges, from the european green deal to brexit, to the covid-19 pandemic, the war in ukraine and the energy crisis or the price rises. of course, to counteract the negative effects, to solve some of the problems, the european union has thought of short-term and long-term solutions. we have allocated special funds and we have made existing funds flexible so that member state authorities can make the most appropriate investments, taking into account the situation on the ground. but for these funds to have the results that our citizens need to feel, we need to do more than just give money. we need to transfer the knowledge to adapt regional and local development strategies. people don't just need funding. they need to know both the forecasts for the period ahead and the technical solutions that can be applied according to the specificities of our regions.
the rapporteur. mr president, this is the first comprehensive monitoring exercise by the european parliament and is therefore quite ground-breaking. after covid-19, it became clear, as in the case of healthcare, that the resources of individual member states are too weak to take care of our citizens. the level of care in many member states was very poor, particularly in the elderly and in institutional care. there was no equipment, no personnel, no support from the staff. the death toll of elderly people with memory problems in long-term care facilities is so dramatic that it calls for further investigation. parliament is sending a strong message that every european has a fundamental right to good, accessible care for all those who need it, whether it is short-term, long-term, unexpected or foreseeable. this legal approach is already included in the social pillar, but we do not yet have the means to implement it effectively. the fact that someone's right must also be someone's duty, in this case the duty of the member states to ensure that this good administration is available. the second message is that there must also be a change in the way we treat people and in the way we think about them. we need to move towards people-centered, customizable care, based on people's circumstances, needs and desires, away from institutions, more community-based. the third message is that all this requires more investment in the whole care sector and in particular in the care of people with chronic illnesses. this, in turn, i believe, also requires legislation. it needs good quality management metrics, continuous monitoring of the situation in the member states, a basic salary for best practice and also addressing existing problems and backlogs. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a welcome step forward. i am also particularly pleased with the requirement for a care programme for carers in this report, which i hope the commission will introduce either as part of the care strategy or afterwards. we must recognize and recognise the need for home care, which accounts for some 70% of care needs in our member states. it must be ensured that it is supported both financially and in terms of services, and that the carers' well-being, leisure and health are taken care of. caring is also, to the greatest extent, a women's issue, with women often underpaid taking care of other women. it is therefore obvious that the status of workers must be better protected. without good workers, there is no good care. in these words, i would like to thank all the parties, the shadow rapporteurs and mr brügge for the very good and constructive cooperation with which we have been able to send this strong common message.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all i want to thank milan brglez and sirpa pietikäinen, both co-rapporteurs, for this initiative and for this report. i really appreciate what you are doing and i appreciate your call on the commission – although last year during the state of the union speech, when president von der leyen addressed this house, she promised that we would come up with a care strategy, which is going to happen on 7 september in the commission. all of us know that care is an integral part of our lives and that it affects us all. some of us are carers of children. some are carers of older family members, as you said. some of us are in need of care. what is clear is that we all provide and need care at different moments in our lives. however, at this moment in time, not everyone can access or afford the high—quality care they need. we cannot tolerate the status quo. inadequate provision of care services has a number of consequences. it takes a heavy toll on the well—being and health of people needing care. it also impacts greatly on gender equality, simply because women continue to bear the bulk of informal care responsibilities across member states. this hinders the ability of women to engage in paid work. on the other hand, more than 80% of care workers in the european union are women and a number of them are of migrant background. care work is often unevaluated. it’s often undervalued. the time has come for us to start caring about care. many care workers face difficult working conditions, and also limited career prospects. the covid—19 pandemic was a painful reminder of the multiple structural weaknesses of our long—term care systems. the demographic mega—trend of ageing in the european union highlights the challenge of ensuring access to high—quality, affordable, long—term care while securing its adequate and sustainable financing. that is why the commission, as i already said, is preparing a european care strategy. the strategy also responds to the conference on the future of europe. citizens highlighted during the conference the importance of addressing health and care issues in the proposal on the demographic transition. their proposal calls for quality, affordable and accessible childcare across the european union and for appropriate care for older people. in responding to the needs of citizens, we must set a framework for policy reforms of our care systems and trigger the necessary investments with the help of european union funding, including direct technical support. the strategy contributes to implementing the european pillar of social rights, which covers various aspects of care. i know that this house cherishes the pillar as much as we do. the strategy will address both carers and care—receivers, from the youngest to the oldest members of our society. it takes a comprehensive approach to care, from childcare into long—term care, and covers the challenges of availability, accessibility, affordability and quality, while also stressing the need to ensure fiscal sustainability. this strategy aims at highlighting the vital contribution of care to society and to the economy. it calls for reinforced action at all levels to counter the challenges exhibited by the covid—19 pandemic and the war in ukraine. the strategy builds on numerous calls for reinforced eu action in this area and previous public consultations. this house is vocal on the topic of care. i fully agree with your focus on the quality of care across the life cycle, whereby we need to focus on accessibility, availability and affordability of care. equally important, all users and their carers should have a genuine choice when it comes to care services. we have to be mindful of our responsibilities for care for life. we note that the parliament calls on member states to act in a number of areas. we will add our voice to these calls to guide the member states, to guide their policy reforms in early childhood education and care and long-term care. the communication on the european care strategy will announce european—level supportive actions that build on extensive european acquis and initiatives relevant to the care sector. this includes labour law, health and safety at work, work—life balance skills and the rights of persons with disabilities and gender equality. regarding long—term care, the commission’s thinking is in line with the report on a number of points. in particular, we agree that we need to have a holistic life cycle approach, putting the persons in need of care at the centre. we agree to enable personal choice and a life lived in dignity, to uphold human rights, and a balanced mix of accessible, affordable and high—quality care options should be available, supported by adequate social protection. there is a clear need to strengthen quality standards and quality assurance mechanisms across the european union. as regards carers, improving working conditions in the sector requires stronger social dialogue, adequate pay and upskilling and reskilling opportunities. informal care should be a choice rather than a necessity, driven by lack of quality and affordable services. support measures should be in place for informal carers. there is a clear social investment case in stepping-up provision of care services, tapping into the job creation potential of this sector, as well as digitalisation and innovation opportunities that can help unlock economic growth, create jobs and allow people with responsibilities to increase their participation on the labour market. with all the member states facing a common challenge of providing accessible, affordable and high—quality care to all that need it, the commission is exploring ways to improve admission of long—term care workers from non—eu countries. as announced in the upcoming communication on attracting skills and talents to the eu, the so—called ‘brain drain to brain gain’, this could benefit both the member states and countries of origin by guaranteeing high ethical standards of recruitment. with regard to the revision of barcelona targets, i am pleased that you advocate further upward convergence across member states, including further investments in high—quality care for children, paying special attention to those at risk of poverty or social exclusion. this would increase women’s participation on the labour market and at the same time support the personal development of children. the proposal for the revision of the barcelona targets follows the gender equality strategy and builds upon european union initiatives such as the child guarantee and the recommendation on early childhood education. care for children does not stop in the nursery or kindergartens. i appreciate that you link formal care with support for parents, including family-friendly working time arrangements and the encouragement of equal sharing of care among parents in line with the work—life balance directive. to conclude, i do appreciate your support for an ambitious care package that will improve gender equality across the european union, allowing both women and men to better combine work with their care responsibilities and providing affordable, accessible and high—quality care services across the european union.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. unfortunately, that concern has been justified today. nowhere in europe are there as many children per carer as in flanders. the workload is also unbearable for the caregivers themselves. we're underinvesting in child care, and that's leading to unsafe situations. however, quality and warm care, that's really where europe can make a difference. the report calls on the commission and the member states to invest in safer and better childcare. but there must also be consideration for our elderly. that is why we are calling for a shift away from large-scale care and towards community-based and small-scale care. after the scandals in private care and the dramas caused by corona, more public investment is also urgently needed. we also need to give more support and more space to the carers. those who care for others deserve more than applause. good care for me means more hands on the job, better wages, less work pressure and more time for the people who really need care. safe and warm care for our children, for the elderly, for all who need it, that is what we want to achieve with this report.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam commissioner, the pandemic has shown the devastation of our health system, which is being eaten away by the lack of resources and the precariousness of the professionals in the sector. neither one nor the other, the european commission, obviously very proud of its handling of the last crisis, feels it has wings to the point of volunteering to become the director of the europe hospital in order to manage the next one. it's like a dream. this report has done the unprecedented feat of crossing all the red lines, trampling on the sovereignty of the states with the famous european health strategy, which we firmly reject. we thought we had seen it all: now the report says that undocumented migrants should be able to receive health care like everyone else. we reject all such deviations. the french are tired of the air appeal that aid for foreigners arriving on our soil is, especially since, as we speak, one of my compatriots out of two has already given up on getting treatment, for lack of means or doctors. in the face of this unacceptable report, we have co-signed, with the ecr group, an alternative resolution in order to bring together another model where the only reminder we accept is that of the defence of our nations. in order to take care of our health, we must avoid following the unfortunate prescriptions of the commission.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the achievement of care that guarantees the dignity of every person is an essential responsibility of our society. we have all received them and we will all offer them. getting it is still a challenge. this strategy was an opportunity to design a serious and ambitious framework for those in need of care, committed to those who provide it and respectful of national competences, but it does not provide all the clarity we needed. it lacks structure, it mixes concepts relating to the regular, irregular and informal world of work, which are the familiar, but it avoids naming them. in fact, it proposes to outsource care through an artificial infrastructure that replaces the family, values care exclusively from an economic and inhuman perspective, and discredits these occupations by abounding in the alleged victimization of women for having a greater presence, ignoring our natural vocation. through an alternative text, we propose to give priority to supporting the family, which is the irreplaceable natural environment where life and affections take place; to give options for choosing solutions adapted to each moment and each situation; to propose creative ideas, to offer economic resources and to favour tax advantages that allow the dedication of a family member or professional services that are of quality and qualified on the basis of a specialty, whether domestic, educational or therapeutic; to recognize the incalculable and indispensable value of those who offer their dedication. there is no more honorable work, caring for another transcends the mere material act. giving back prestige and securing good conditions is a priority, whether it is a family member or a professional.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the european union has no competence in the field of nursing care. member states should design systems taking into account the provision of preventive health care, rehabilitation and the possibility of independent living. i would like to stress the crucial role of family nursing care. this ensures the most appropriate environment for the cared for, for which the state should provide all conditions and assistance. however, this is not always possible in home care. so a sober, reasonable approach is needed in the institutional care setting, with necessary adjustments for the benefit of the recipients. my fellow officers. for 12 years, i've been fighting for the institutional replacement of the large number of disabled people who are cared for. significant progress has been made at national level and in many countries of the european union. what i've learned over the years is that proper and community-based institutional care and family-based care are perfectly complementary, and we need to move in that direction. you can't close down every care facility.
mr president, commissioner šuica, dear colleagues, the past couple of years show how the pandemic exacerbated the challenges faced by the care sector. this has been a stark reminder of the importance of the care sector, access to care and the efficiency of our social security systems. we have witnessed a lack of accessible and affordable, quality long—term care services, and unacceptable stress put on the millions of care professionals, especially women, during a period of stress and crisis in an understaffed and underfunded sector. existing challenges have led also to a substantial share of informal care and outdated services not fit for the purpose. we need the necessary investment to give our citizens, who are the workers and beneficiaries of the sector, the tools to face the existing challenges and the increased demand on care services due to an ageing population. we must put forward the necessary responses to create more quality jobs in the care sector and care industry and ensure our citizens, without any discrimination, have access to quality formal care services in all their forms. the european care strategy stands as a pillar for the resilience of our social security systems. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and wish we have good cooperation with the commission on this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. climate, energy, purchasing power. the choices made in each of these three policy areas clearly have an impact on the other two measures taken to combat climate change. they have an effect on energy supplies and will affect, and probably even affect, the purchasing power of the citizens. but equally, securing energy supply by, for example, turning to gas and coal power plants has an impact on climate objectives. today's debate on purchasing power is therefore inextricably linked to the other major debate this week, namely taxonomy. i know my game. we are strong supporters of a sustainable energy transition, but one which also places prosperity and competitiveness at its centre. we must not be blind to the dramatically changed geopolitical situation and to the support of citizens and businesses. the transition will fail if the citizens' confidence and purchasing power are affected. if we want to keep electricity prices under control in the long term, with a stable energy supply and to meet climate objectives, europe has no choice but to opt for nuclear energy. this week parliament has the keys to finally recognising nuclear energy as a sustainable source of energy. in the short term, i am in favour of protecting the purchasing power of citizens and the competitiveness of companies to the maximum extent possible through taxation, through reductions in burdens by the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in the cost of living is having economic and social consequences which european governments are tackling with urgent measures. in italy, but not only, particularly problematic charges relate to household expenditure on housing, water, electricity and fuel. the rise in energy and commodity prices has widened the scope of inflationary pressures. the war and geopolitical tensions that are going on are raising questions about our energy dependence, about the speculation in the market that we have to combat and about the ceiling on gas and oil. at this stage it becomes even more important to demand the correct and effective use of european funds, including nextgenerationeu and european social fund plus. support for recovery, investment in enterprises and economic and territorial cohesion cannot be disregarded without protecting vulnerable social groups and the purchasing power of wages. the european union has a long-term strategy to combat poverty and social exclusion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the best way of dealing with the present crisis is not to give the ecb clever and old-fashioned advice. we wanted a politically independent ecb, and now we should let it do its job, and we should concentrate on what we can do. i would like to refer to the social climate fund, which we recently launched in this house. i am beginning to wonder why the german chancellor in particular - who is doing nothing in his own country to combat this crisis, who has launched a relief package that does not deserve the name, which does not include pensioners and students - why is this chancellor in particular campaigning for the climate and social fund, which has already been reduced in comparison with the commission's proposal, to be reduced again? we should see to it that this fund is launched as soon as possible. we must see that we as the european union are making a contribution to increase food production, to take the pressure of prices out of the market. and thirdly, in order to safeguard employment, we must see to it that we free industry from additional burdens such as the chemicals directive and that what can be postponed is also postponed at this point. we should discuss this together at a major social summit, including with the social partners. i'm pushing for that here.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, we have been talking lately about the lockdown generation. now we have to acknowledge that the pandemic and russia's aggression in ukraine have brought socioeconomic vulnerabilities to the surface. member states are increasingly indebted, deficits are rising and citizens' incomes are melting from month to month because of inflation. it's not a solution to throw money from the helicopter. improving daily living comes from reforms, investment and building strong social resilience, including with the support of national recovery and resilience plans. improving everyday life will come from the power we give to young people. now, not later, we need to invest in the younger generation. now, not later, we need to invest in their education. now, not later, we need to create opportunities for them in the entrepreneurial environment. young people must believe that they can renew europe. we are responsible for opening the door to europe. we need bold, swift and unprecedented action to avoid a generation relegated to a living standard far worse than that of their parents or grandparents. that is why we have the european pillar of social rights and it can lead to a better life for all citizens.
mr president, i say to the commissioner, and our dear colleagues: the definition of insanity is to do the same thing over and over again expecting different results. we talk now about the increase in cost of living in the european union, which is just a result of the insane, unsound policies promoted by the european union since ursula von der leyen took office. ursula’s plan to forcibly change the behaviour of europeans through higher prices and higher taxes, as she said, caused an unseen inflation in the eu and more poverty than ever seen before. the solution to make the cost of living in the eu more affordable is to reduce taxes so businesses will have more money to invest and create jobs, as well as people will have more money to spend. ursula von der leyen must understand that she cannot tax people out of poverty. she cannot – in a market where demand for energy is increasing – get cheaper energy by closing down sources of energy. nevertheless, the european parliament must stop the insane, and support the creation of energy from nuclear and gas that, along with renewable energy, can provide sustainable and cheaper energy, which will make the cost of living affordable for all europeans.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate my fellow rapporteur and the whole team who worked on this important report. i think that in these difficult times, when solidarity with those in difficulty has been the focus of our attention, i think that the sector of the social economy and of entities that have a social objective and that put people first and not just profit, is becoming more and more important in our societies. i welcome the european commission's initiative to publish the new action plan for the social economy at the end of last year. this step by the commission opens the way to an economy with enormous potential, but which, unfortunately, in many member states has not yet been exploited. during the pandemic, we were able to see how social economy entities were on the front lines of addressing the crisis, producing masks, facilitating digital education, and providing support to local communities. moreover, in the context of the refugee crisis caused by the russian federation's aggression against ukraine, we have seen how ordinary people, local businesses and small communities have shown extraordinary civic spirit, worthy of european values. i therefore believe that citizens who want to become more involved in their communities must be supported by member states and any barriers to achieving social objectives must be removed. the european union can and must promote solidarity through the social economy.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much and thank you, colleagues. thank you for this debate. it was long, it was well argued, and it was important that we had this conversation. i think the last speaker referred to a letter from the ukrainian minister of energy, and i want to thank the minister for the statement he made and i will quote the letter where he says, ‘i strongly believe that the inclusion of gas and nuclear in the taxonomy is an important element of the energy security in europe, especially with a view to replacing russian gas.’ and i don’t think we should second-guess this letter. we should read and hear what he has said. my second clarification is around this accusation that what we are doing is a gift to vladimir putin. i hope we have enough respect for each other in this chamber to say that that is not the case, that this is, in fact, a realistic proposal to deal with great urgency, the matter of our transition towards a more sustainable future. i repeat the very fact that our taxonomy, which is law, already – already! – points to renewables as the priority. we need to invest immediately more money in the renewable energy sector, but we also need to be realistic and accept that we will need to invest in gas and nuclear in transition. and very few who oppose this work on the cda have listened to that word ‘transition’. my next comment refers to those who have concerns for the financial sector because they might not be clear. well, frankly, the financial sector has a duty to channel investments in renewables, and they are well able and well-staffed to understand our taxonomy in all its nuances. i don’t think they need our sympathy. and separately, investors will have clarity, absolute clarity, if there is a financial product that contains an investment in gas or nuclear. there will be no greenwashing. and that is something that you must accept, what i am saying here today. what’s been interesting for me is that there are different views right across this house. so families are divided. families at home are divided on these energy sources. we would like immediately to stop using all fossil fuels, but let’s understand what’s happening today because of the war, the illegal invasion and the horrors that are inflicted in ukraine. member states that had closed coal-fired power plants are re-opening them. and this is not something we want to see. equally, we do not want to see that there will be only investments in gas and nuclear, but we want them to happen in the transition. more importantly, we want them to happen with conditions that are strict. there will be no wild west in terms of private investments. if this delegated act is rejected – and i stand in front of this house and will accept fully the vote of this house as a former member and will watch it very carefully – it means that we have nothing to say on these energy sources. there will be no conditionality because there will be investment. i urge all of you who took a pragmatic and realistic approach to the climate delegated act, which is now law, which i thank you for, to take the same pragmatic and realistic approach to this issue, the complementary delegated act, and reject this motion of rejection. this is important for our future and i ask you to consider your vote, which i am sure you will, with the care and attention it absolutely deserves.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate on this issue is closed and the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in march, the european commission proposed to include gas and nuclear investments in the list of environmentally friendly economic activities. the proposal aims to boost green investment. in june, however, the european parliament's committee on economic and environmental affairs voted against the commission's proposal. a commission regulation shall enter into force automatically if no objection is expressed by the european parliament. in the financial world, taxonomy means the classification of economic activities according to whether investments are sustainable or not. in principle, taxonomy does not forbid or command anyone to do anything. the taxonomy of sustainable finance is voluntary for market participants. however, exchange companies are required to report whether and to what extent they follow the taxonomy, so there is certainly a direct impact on financial markets there. compared with natural gas, coal and oil shale pollute four times as much. the commission has proposed to classify investments in natural gas as sustainable as a transitional measure. in the case of nuclear power, nobody says that nuclear power plants emit carbon dioxide. but at the same time, everybody knows that nuclear fuel is not renewable fuel either. the question is whether or not to consider it sustainable. in the current energy crisis, i consider it necessary to classify investments in nuclear energy and natural gas as a transition fuel as sustainable. several financial institutions have already indicated that they do not intend to adopt the taxonomy. there's no radical change coming from this vote. i vote against that objection.
in writing. the choice to include gas and nuclear in the list of environmentally sustainable activities of the green taxonomy risks undermining the entire credibility of the whole regulatory framework aimed at the green economy. as m5s we reiterate our firm no to such inclusion. gas is a fossil fuel that emits co2, a climate-changing energy source that makes us dependent on russia and other third countries. nuclear power stations pose very serious problems of safety and management of radioactive waste. the new nuclear technologies that would ensure safer and even greener production do not yet exist. the cost of building and maintaining the plants remains high and the lead time is long. while we are aware of the energy supply problems facing europe and the world, we believe that those who want to help combat climate change and protect the environment and health must make bold, non-retardable choices, focusing on renewable sources and not diverting large investments from clean energy. only by pursuing the real objectives of the european green deal and not making downward compromises will taxonomy be a reference for the world of finance, governments and companies.
in writing. in the midst of the energy war, some want europe to shoot itself in the foot. that is, in my view, what it means to challenge the european commission's proposal to include the natural gas and nuclear sectors in the eu taxonomy. the objection put on the agenda of this plenary session is determined either by the inadequacy of the new geopolitical reality or by the individualism of states lacking natural resources, so as not to suspect other implications... the vote in the european parliament, however, leaves a clear path for the european commission's delegated act, which allows investments in natural gas and nuclear energy to be funded from eu funds as transition activities to replace coal and oil. after all, coal mines are being reopened in the eu to cope with the energy crisis, and some are repulsed by the less polluting gas and nuclear power! an unprecedented winter is coming to post-war europe, in which the green utopia will not keep citizens warm and fuel the economy. i therefore consider the declared intention of the austrian and luxembourg governments to challenge the european commission's delegated act to the court of justice of the eu to be dangerous.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur. i think serbia needs to understand that there is no double standard when you take this path you want to take on joining the european union. in this context, it is essential that serbia's policy demonstrates by deeds that it is aligned with european standards and that it must apply the sanctions that we have applied to russia precisely because this war has offered us a new reality, which allows us to understand that only united, only together, can we face all the challenges. and i think that serbia has an obligation to align and to meet all the expectations that we have of this strongly tried but convinced state that the only correct path is the european path of this state. belgrade must understand this mission.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, 6 july 2022. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. especially in these difficult times, our primary interest is the stability and security of the western balkans. we must do everything we can to manage the integration of this region properly. we need to accelerate the expansion process, not slow it down. of course, all countries must meet the conditions for membership, and only then can the eu remain credible. the candidate countries should be considered on the basis of the same values and conditions. serbia has been waiting for years for progress in the accession process and is trying to take the necessary steps to meet eu conditions. however, the report does not promote serbia's eu accession process, and its exaggerated text may slow it down, alienating serbia from the union. meanwhile, the eu's credibility is also called into question. however, unfounded criticism of the commissioner responsible for enlargement and allegations that he is biased towards serbia are unacceptable. the european union is also concerned about the situation in the balkans, and the european union is concerned about the situation in the balkans. regardless of which country report is involved, it is absurdly stated in the texts that hungary, together with serbia, makes it possible to achieve the geopolitical goals of russia and china. we reject these ridiculous claims. hungary is one of the main supporters of the eu accession of serbia in the western balkans, and we support serbia's eu membership as soon as possible.
in writing. the 2021 report on serbia contains a number of inconsistencies and inaccuracies, and furthermore shows a real interference in the internal and external politics of the most important country in the western balkans. among the many 'interesting' passages, we chose two pearls: the observation that the parliament was sometimes dissolved early and the regret that serbia did not fully align itself with the union's foreign policy. firstly, the report is maliciously critical of the country's alleged political instability. in our opinion, this is nothing but a sign of a certain democratic vitality. moreover, the report seems to forget that the champion of political instability is not to be found in the western balkans, but among the founding countries of the union, with a record 67 governments since 1946. finally, the criticism of non-alignment is paradoxical, when we know that belgrade, after being the originator, hosted in 2021 the xix summit of the non-aligned movement. a revealing critique of the union's desire to reduce national sovereignty in favour of a federal superstructure designed to subject the european nations to the dominant doxa.
the next item is the report (a9-0179/2022) by mrs viola von cramon-taubadel, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the report on the 2021 report on kosovo [2021/2246 ((ini) ].
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first let me thank the rapporteur, viola von cramon—taubadel, for her report on kosovo in the light of the challenging and changing geopolitical context. it is worth noting that kosovo has made a clear choice and reconfirmed its commitment to european values and to our union. the government has condemned the russian military aggression and demonstrated solidarity with ukraine and with its people. kosovo has also aligned with eu statements and sanctions against russia and belarus. i very much welcome kosovo’s support and commitment in this sense. we too need to keep our commitments. in july 2018, the commission reported that kosovo had fulfilled all the benchmarks to be granted visa liberalisation. the decision is still pending in the council and we need to deliver on this long—overdue promise. i thank the members of the european parliament for being supportive and vocal on this matter. while the commission confirms the assessment again that kosovo has fulfilled all the criteria to grant visa liberalisation, the decision remains in the hands of member states and therefore the commission is ready to support kosovo in addressing the remaining concerns voiced by member states. we are not talking here about any new roadmap or any new conditions, but about additional support from the commission to find a pragmatic solution to clear the remaining obstacles. now let me turn towards the assessment of the reform progress. kosovo’s government continues to be resolute in its efforts to deliver eu—related reforms, including in key areas such as the fight against corruption and organised crime. we would like to see a faster pace of reform, including in the assembly, which has a critical role to play in advancing the government’s eu agenda. we welcome kosovo’s efforts to improve the efficiency, integrity and professionalism of the judiciary. as you note in your report, these efforts should respect the recent venice commission recommendations on the matter, which we have welcomed. the commission stands ready to continue discussions with the authorities on this important issue. on the economic front, the eu and kosovo are facing common challenges: increase of the prices of energy and other commodities, inflation and concerns about the future. the energy sector remains a cause for concern, especially after the difficult winter kosovo has been through. kosovo should finalise its energy strategy for the next ten years and begin its transition towards decarbonisation and green energy sources as soon as possible. we remain committed to help kosovo in every way we can, including through our financial assistance. kosovo needs to redouble its efforts to take full advantage of the unique opportunities offered under the economic and investment plan and ipa iii, not least in the energy sector. for these investments to deliver fully, we need the region to push ahead with regional economic cooperation. the name of this cooperation is not important as long as it is built on eu rules and is inclusive for the whole region. we need kosovo to engage constructively in its implementation. when it comes to the belgrade—pristina dialogue, the adoption on 21 june of a roadmap for the implementation of past energy agreements is a major step forward. more broadly, we expect kosovo and serbia to make rapid and concrete progress on the full normalisation of their relations. a comprehensive, legally—binding normalisation agreement is key for serbia and kosovo to advance on the european path. let me end on this note: the entire region belongs in the european union. they are part of the european family. thank you for your attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia. the entire western balkans all six countries are important for the future of europe. today we are debating the republic of kosovo and the kosovo report. i would therefore like to point out that this is a country with people who paid a high price for their freedom, a country which only gained its independence through the european union and the united states of america, a country which has built democracy and the rule of law at an impressive rate, a democracy which is stable today and which has a high degree of diversity in the country, a state of law, yes, which still needs reforms, but which has one of the most modern constitutions in the world behind it, a country which is recognised by well over a hundred countries in the world and now also by the state of israel, which has been an open question for a long time. but a state which is still not recognised by a small minority of national governments in the european union, a state whose citizens are the only ones in the entire western balkans who are not allowed to travel without a visa, a state to which promises are made again and again, which are then not kept, promises are made to which compliance is then postponed. this is the republic of kosovo. nevertheless, the people there are the most in favour of european integration of all the western balkan countries. nevertheless, there is a confidence that all others in europe can learn a lot from the youngest state in europe, not only in its statehood but also in its population. that is why the signal from the european parliament is so important today.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i will try not to repeat what was said already, but also i will try to avoid my frustration and to focus on positive developments for kosovo. but before that, let me start by thanking our rapporteur for bringing such a balanced report in front of the european parliament. indeed, kosovo is among the countries in the region where the eu integration process enjoys strong support among the citizens and all political actors. without any doubt, kosovo is arguably one of the most dedicated and loyal partner countries for the european union. and again, it was a year that was dynamic and full of important political developments. but despite this, kosovo has confirmed its strategic commitment to the european pact with the decision to formally apply to join the eu by the end of this year. kosovo has proactively aligned with the eu’s common foreign and security policy and gave a great example by strongly condemning russia’s aggression in ukraine and became the first country from the region to join eu sanctions. therefore, i urge the leadership of the eu to stop the years of unfulfilled eu promises and lost opportunities and finally grant kosovo visa liberalisation. it is so important, not for us as thr european union, but it’s important for our strategic relationship with kosovo. and most importantly, we deserve that promise to the younger generation of kosovo with so much potential and we are there looking forward for such a message coming from the european council.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the brexit blow, the european union is trying fanatically to convince itself that it is still a force of attraction, seeking at all costs to integrate new countries into its fold. it does not matter whether they are under the influence of an armed secession like moldova, or outright at war like ukraine. it does not matter that it is a territory known for its mafia, islamist and trafficking, as the present case of kosovo illustrates. in fact, you want to open the doors of europe to the massive influx of arms, drug trafficking, human trafficking and islamist terrorism. i remind you that kosovo has supplied the largest number of jihadists to syria and iraq in europe, in proportion to its population. yet you are advocating without delay the accession of kosovo to the european union and visa liberalisation for kosovars, without worrying that five eu member states still do not recognise the existence of the territory. as usual, this report is an ideological rundown which takes no account of the real consequences that kosovo's accession would have on all european countries. according to a survey carried out by the european council on foreign relations, a large majority of citizens of the member states of the european union are opposed to enlargement to the balkan countries. but you don't care. the kosovo government also wants kosovo to eventually become part of a greater albania, which would become a de facto member of the european union, in full contradiction to un security council resolution 1244. and you don't care about that either. in conclusion, in the face of this hallucinatory casualness, the national assembly will always oppose this expansionist will and will always firmly defend the interest and will of our peoples.
on behalf of the ecr group. mrs president, madam rapporteur, i congratulate you on your fruitful work. this report is quite different from the previous two that we were just discussing. what i will, of course, immediately emphasize is that with the support of colleagues from various groups, our amendments were adopted, which call on the government in pristina to consider the petition of over 500 bulgarians in the gora and zhupa districts and their rights to be guaranteed and regulated. i am sure that the pro-european government in kosovo will pay attention to this issue and the bulgarians will be equally and well accepted in the society that is friendly to them and will have the opportunity to preserve their unique culture and identity. what bothers me, though, is the lack of a clear indication of the real problem. the real problem is russia's proxy in the balkans, serbia. it is destabilising and trying to destabilise kosovo and it is continuing with the provocations as it was at the beginning of this year. we have seen serbian provocations and border tensions on several occasions, and the occasion was police actions by the kosovo police, who were acting against organised crime on the serbian side, so there is a need to pay attention. i can congratulate you on the other.
madam president, thanks to the rapporteur for a good report. kosovo is a stress test for europe but self—determination is the route to solve conflicts peacefully and democratically, and hence it is sound geopolitical policy. if we look down on kosovo as an experiment in new forms of good-faith colonialism as a nuisance to bear and despise for strategic reasons, then we will just repeat the historical mistakes in the balkans. almost all member states recognise kosovo, except a select few that align with russia and drag the eu away from the only way forward. among them spain, the eu champion against self—determination. europe pays a very heavy price for spain’s internal insecurities. how much longer will spain deny kosovo’s existence just to get a warrant against the catalans? year after year, this charade grows more absurd. self—determination is a fundamental right in kosovo, in sahara, in scotland, and, yes, also in catalonia.
madam president, kosovo has shown commitment to implementing the necessary reforms, there is huge public support for european integration and now is the time for the government to use its stable majority in parliament and go ahead with the necessary reforms. at the same time, as we have often said, european integration is a two-way street. the european union, the european council must deliver on their promise and finally allow kosovo citizens to travel without visas for short-term tourist trips to the european union. we owe it to him to do so as soon as possible, i would say immediately. i also expect the government to take decisive action to move forward with relations with serbia, the clear objective being, as we said earlier in the debate with serbia, that the ultimate objective is mutual recognition between the two sides. i am happy that the text of the draft resolution includes a paragraph on the bulgarian minority in kosovo, calling for their petition to the kosovo parliament to be respected and for their rights to be respected and enshrined in law.
madam president, kosovo’s people deserve this liberalisation and this is nothing new. they have deserved it since 2018. kosovo played by the rules and fulfilled all the commission benchmarks. yet last month, the european council failed them, failed all of the western balkan countries again. and i’m embarrassed. it is also my home country, the netherlands, that continues to block what the kosovars clearly deserve. let us be very clear: any franco-dutch demands for yet another commission report or road map are absurd. if we want to retain any remaining credibility in the western balkans, the council must put an end to this habit of changing the rules in the middle of the game. all member states and the commission need to hold obstructers accountable. our leaders need to realize europe’s geopolitical reality does not leave room for unending roadmaps. so i call on the council and on the french and dutch governments, in particular, to be resolute: end this irresponsible obstruction. just like finally opening accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania, kosovo’s visa liberalisation will be a sign of hope that will resound across the western balkans and it will demonstrate to all that eu enlargement is alive and kicking if you deliver on what you were asked. we need to do this together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is right when it calls for kosovo to be admitted as a candidate country for accession to the union and it is right when it calls on the member states not to veto the request that kosovo intends to formalise in this respect at the end of 2022. if, when this request arrives, states such as spain oppose it, they will be facing off against the will of this parliament. kosovo has made important steps since 2021 towards democratizing its political system, and if we close the door to it, these efforts will lose momentum. which do we prefer? a democratic kosovo within the union or a failed kosovo state close by but outside the union? spain and the other states which still do not recognise the legitimate unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo will obstruct its european path, a declaration which is in accordance with international law according to the international court of justice. if a unilateral declaration of independence can be legal in accordance with international law, it is against european values that there are currently five member states of the union, including spain, that do not want to recognize it.
madam president, thank you very much. i’m glad to see that in this report, we welcome kosovo’s efforts to advance the reforms that will bring the country closer to the eu, that we recognise progress being made in a number of areas, and that we praise the support of institutions and the majority of the population to become members of the eu. but despite all of this, five member states, including spain, are stubbornly resisting to recognise kosovo as an independent state, a state that very soon will formally ask us for membership. the situation is absurd, even more so when the non-recognition is looking at internal situations and for the fear of setting precedents regarding the ways to achieve statehood, as is clearly the case with spain. the independence of kosovo is irreversible legal, democratic, and it has been a reality for years. hindering kosovo’s european perspective by not recognising its independence is selfish and weakens our union.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to tell you that commissioner várhelyi would very much wish to be here with us on these items, but he was prevented due to medical reasons. thank you for raising all the various issues in this extremely interesting debate. on visa liberalisation, let me just clarify and reiterate once again that we continue to stand behind our assessment of july 2018 that kosovo has fulfilled all the requirements for visa liberalisation, and it is now for the council to move this issue forward. on the belgrade-pristina dialogue, i would like to underline that we fully support the efforts of the high representative and his special representative lajčák to facilitate the talks between belgrade and pristina. and i think it is time for this process to come to a successful end. we expect both parties to make rapid and concrete progress on the full normalisation of their relations. i would not want now to go into details of all the other issues. let me just say that the upcoming 2022 enlargement package will be an opportunity to assess kosovo’s progress. we expect to see concrete action from the government on many of the key areas that were also highlighted in today’s discussion. these reforms that are necessary will help bring prosperity, stability and peace to kosovo and also to the wider region. this is a message that we need to repeat to all our partners in the western balkans and i do count on the support of this house to echo these messages and to remain engaged with kosovo. it is really important, perhaps more than ever before, that the european union and this house express their full and unequivocal commitment to the eu membership perspective for all of the western balkans, including kosovo.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, 6 july 2022.
the next item is the report by mr javi lópez, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu and defending multilateralism [2020/2114 (ini) ] (a9-0172/2022).
the rapporteur. madam president, today we are discussing the report on which we have been working in the committee on foreign affairs for the last year, on the european union and the necessary defence of multilateralism. the rapporteur, mr van den broek, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i would like to thank all of them for their contributions, which have made a useful and particularly relevant text available to us, both for the debate and for the text we are about to adopt. it is relevant in the international context in which we find ourselves: a world in turmoil, full of tensions, characteristic of the logic of the great empires and where some real threats have shown how they are prepared to step on the organization of a world governed by rules by force. and because, in addition, over the last few years, and especially through the pandemic, we have learned how interconnected we are and how necessary international cooperation and multilateralism are to address today's global challenges. this is also a report which responds to the interinstitutional dialogue which the european union is having following the communication, which we acknowledge, of the commission and the high representative on the european union and multilateralism. it is a report which aims to do five things. firstly, to identify the reasons and causes of the current crisis of multilateralism, a crisis which we describe as one of influence, relevance and legitimacy, and to lay out a road map for the reconstruction of multilateralism in the world. a more effective, inclusive, values-driven and at the same time results-oriented multilateralism. secondly, the report stresses the symbiosis between the european union and multilateralism. it's part of our dna. we are, in fact, as a political organisation, also a multilateral product of the will to build common rules, dialogue and institutions. and to do this we are calling for two things: a greater presence of the european union as a global actor in multilateral bodies, with good cooperation between member states and european institutions; and a greater weight and influence of multilateral forums in global decision-making, something which we believe will go hand in hand. thirdly, the report contributes to the necessary debate on updating and reforming the united nations, an organisation which has been overtaken in recent years, especially by conflicts involving permanent members of its security council. that is why we are calling today for a security council which is more inclusive, more representative of today's world, with a real presence of the european union in decision-making and in which veto powers are minimised. fourthly, the report also speaks of the role of this house and parliamentarism in multilateral fora, calling for parliamentary diplomacy in the service of multilateralism and calling for an important role for assemblies in these multilateral fora. and fifth, we call for a result-oriented multilateralism, for the challenges that we all know today that require cooperation, especially: climate change, which by its very nature forces and pushes us to cooperate - and not to compete - economic governance, which is now widely condemned; the need to cooperate in the field of taxation or also gender equality; and, of course, global health, which has been one of the lessons, without a doubt, of this pandemic. but today we are calling for a firm commitment from this house, from this house, to the necessary reconstruction of a multilateralism in crisis which requires a stronger european union, as a global actor, for that reconstruction and for us to have a world guided by common rules, dialogue and institutions, to face the challenges shared by humanity.
member of the commission. – madam president, this report on the eu and the defence of multilateralism could not be more timely and i thank the rapporteur, jávi lópez, for raising the urgent need to defend multilateralism and for bringing this report together. at the start of the year, the un secretary-general spoke urgently about what he called a ‘five-alarm global fire’ covering covid, inequality, climate emergency, abuse of technology and violent conflict. unfortunately, things have gone much worse since. russia’s war of aggression against ukraine has compounded problems that were already challenging our ability to adapt. it has damaged the international order and the global economy in ways that will have lasting repercussions. by threatening the territorial integrity and independence of a sovereign state, the war in ukraine raises questions about the whole system of rules and norms underpinning international relations. this war has exposed gaps in global governance and underlined the need for reform of the united nations. at the same time, however, it has concentrated the minds on what is at stake and it has reminded us what we are capable of. successive resolutions of the un general assembly have shown the strength of feeling around the world against russia’s aggression, and the eu has taken a leading role in rallying strong, swift and united international action. this has involved new forms of cooperation with the g7 partners, but also outreach around the world. the eu has also been ready to assert its positive narrative in support of rules-based multilateralism in the face of the alternative vision presented by china through its global development initiative and the global security initiative, and it was restated in the china-russia joint statement of 4 february. the eu also maintains a strong profile on human rights, economic, social and cultural, as well as civil and political rights. just recently, the eu coordinated a statement in geneva about digital and access to education, which was supported by nearly 100 countries from all regions. this willingness to work with partners on all issues is a hallmark of eu policy. it builds on the vital agreements and relationships that connect us with latin america and the caribbean, the indo-pacific, with africa and the gulf. it draws on a shared respect for the un charter, which is now more relevant than ever, as well as agreed values and principles. unfortunately, the more we learn, the more we grasp the scale of the challenges ahead. the un’s global crisis response group set this out with chilling clarity, and the eu is committed to working through this framework to mitigate the effects of the war for the most vulnerable. but even as we do so, we cannot lose sight of overarching priorities such as agenda 2030 and the sustainable development goals. this report is a valuable reminder of the breadth and depth of human endeavour covered in one word, multilateralism, and it will be a useful guide for our work.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, let me start off by thanking the rapporteur and colleagues across this house for the cooperation on this report. multilateralism, as the peaceful organization of relations between states as well as the international organisations built over 75 years, is increasingly threatened. today, non—democratic regimes, such as russia under vladimir putin or the totalitarian chinese communist party, are seeking to reshape multilateral forums and rewrite international norms to suit their malign interests from trade to human rights. for too long, we have allowed non-democratic regimes to increase their influence across multilateral forums. this is why it is essential that we work closely with our democratic allies to rebuild multilateralism. together, we must ensure that multilateral institutions function in accordance with the values and principles on which they were built, that they are accountable and they work in a way that is relevant to meet today's challenges. first, we must utilise our existing networks and make full use of our new policy instruments, such as global europe or the global gateway. we must also not forget that we still exert important leverage on the biggest donor to multilateral institutions. second, we must press ahead with our reforms to the key institutions, including the wto and who, as well as the human rights council, to ensure that they are resilient tomalign influence and work to defend the values on which they have been built. how we, the democratic world, respond to it will determine the world in which we will live in the future.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam chair, commissioner, dear colleagues, democracy does not just happen and freedom is not a given. we fought – and are still fighting – wars for the rules—based order. to strengthen it, we created multilateral institutions, and to this day they have kept us interconnected, provided us with an opportunity to solve issues through diplomacy and dialogue, and were meant to keep rogue regimes accountable. so, first and foremost, we have a duty to keep multilateralism functional and effective. we must constantly update and reinvent its institutions so they remain in lockstep with our geopolitical realities. when they fail, particularly in securing accountability for breaking rules, we must find ways to reform them. it is true for the wto and it is true for the un. from climate change to war on famine, we need to act our values stronger and we need to work closer with those who think like us. this is the essence of our report, and i praise the rapporteur and my fellow shadows for how we worked to achieve it.
mr president, digital services are indispensable to our economy. we need european legislation that is fit for purpose, that sets out clear responsibilities and protects the rights of consumers and businesses. first, we must fight to combat legal content online and defend citizens who become victims of digital crime, with a strong focus on protecting vulnerable groups such as children. in this regard, we have to make sure that what is illegal offline must be illegal online. secondly, we need a level playing field in the digital single market. we have too many digital service providers that have a capital that is much larger than the gdp of many european countries and that have acquired self-regulatory powers that are too large for the status of private entities. we have to make sure that the rules are followed even by the most powerful.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is facing a crisis, a hidden crisis, which not many people are talking about, but which affects millions of citizens. it's about mental health, which has been completely neglected in recent years. the world health organization has shown that over 300 million people worldwide suffer from work-related mental disorders, such as exhaustion, anxiety, depression or stress. especially for those who for more than two years have worked only from home and have known colleagues only in the virtual environment and have lost the social contact so necessary for a healthy person. the european union has an obligation to create the necessary framework for european digital workers to be protected and to work in conditions that guarantee their health, both physical and mental. that is why i have chosen to support this report.
mr president, at present, over 30 million people in the european union need long-term care and this number will increase considerably in the coming years, in the context of europe's demographic decline. however, many of these people do not have access to quality care services, due to high costs and acute shortages of workers. moreover, carers' working conditions are often inequitable, with abuse, low wages, black-collar work, unpaid overtime and no social protection. thousands of romanian women have gone to different european countries to work in the care sector, and the testimonies of many of them about the conditions in which they work are terrifying. that is why i support this report and believe that the european union must do everything possible to improve both access to care services and the quality of carers' working conditions.
madam president, prime minister, first of all, i’d like to thank you, prime minister, for your bravery. i would like to thank you for your presence in kiev with mr. kaczynski and mr. morawiecki. that’s very important to everyone in europe, i believe, so i would like to thank you for your bravery. for your presidency, i would like to wish you bravery – because it’s needed. so i hope you will stay strong – because it’s up to you, up to your perseverance what is going to happen now in europe. we do remember 1968, when the soviets invaded your country. and i can assure you now you have our full support – because we do know how it is to be a slave of the soviet union and russia. i can assure you, poland will never be a slave of the soviets. poland will never be a slave of the soviet union and russia. and i do believe the czech republic will never be a slave. and this is my wishes to you and to your people. stay strong. stay firm.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, your excellences, the czech republic has been a member of the european union since may 2004 and a schengen member since december 2007. václav havel, the great politician, said that in general, oil should not be more important than human rights and the rights of nations. romania has been a member of the european union since january 2007 and four years later it had fulfilled the conditions for accession to schengen. it's 2022, but we're still waiting. for 11 years, my romanians have been held at the door of an exclusive club. the most religious people in the european union, the most euro-optimistic, with a lot of suffering in the collective mind, are treated with indifference. we are denied the right to full freedom, although we have every right to it, both culturally and historically, but also politically. is it any wonder that political movements are emerging to challenge the euro? europe, now shaken by the war in ukraine, should have learned that indifference costs. europe has been silent on the annexation of crimea and is now watching russia's deadly leap from ukraine. romanians are in no danger, thank god, because we are nato members. the danger is another, to continue to leave their country en masse, considered second-class. seven million left and i'm left with 20 million. it's not fair, it's not moral, it's not democratic, that the rules are applied arbitrarily. let's not talk about democracy. but the question for me and my people is: when will romania really be on the agenda of the european union's priorities, my dear ones? it's unacceptable what's going on!
mr president, the northern ireland protocol bill is not a trivial set of adjustments, as prime minister johnson described it; it is a near-complete unilateral rewrite through domestic law of a binding international treaty voluntarily entered into by the uk government. this is a clear breach of international law. the bill would grant uk ministers extraordinarily wide discretionary powers to implement their alternative to the protocol without negotiating with the european union. some of the so-called fixes would actively undermine the unique status of northern ireland, depriving it of the best of both worlds. we must remember that the protocol provides access to the eu internal market for the goods coming from northern ireland. the bill brings major risk to this access. the uk government needs to accept responsibility for the protocol and return to the negotiating table as soon as possible. it is not too late to avoid new local elections in northern ireland and increased legal uncertainty.
mr president, speaking as the european parliament rapporteur for the implementation of the withdrawal agreement, including the northern ireland protocol, my message to the british government is clear: there is no such thing as a unilateral change to a bilateral international agreement. the bill announced in the house of commons they say to fix the northern ireland protocol is no more than a confession of political will to breach the international law commitments recently negotiated and agreed by boris johnson himself. instead, the british government should engage constructively in discussing the concrete proposals made by vice—president šefčovič and the european commission to introduce additional flexibility in the implementation of the protocol, as is the wish of the majority of the elected representatives in northern ireland. but make no mistake: this line of action will have serious consequences, forcing the european commission to launch legal actions against the uk and possibly activate trade sanctions that would harm the smooth implementation also of the trade and cooperation agreement.
mr president, today is a very interesting day. we voted the report on bosnia and herzegovina, where an overwhelming majority rejected the strategic compass – the document that was intended to prevent and to start having a real policy on the security and safety of european union. we are discussing the northern ireland protocol agreement and the good friday agreement. the uk government is trying to play its part in the western balkans, and everywhere around, in order to cover up what they are doing in northern ireland. so i think that we should start paying attention in respecting the dayton/paris peace agreement and the good friday agreement, and to start to do preventive diplomacy and pay attention to power—sharing governments everywhere in the world, in order to preserve peace and security for all the citizens.
mr president, after brexit all the signs that it was a bad decision, especially for the british, have come true: empty shelves, lack of medicines, a sharp increase in exports from ireland to northern ireland, while those from england are falling, the victory of sinn féin and, finally, the partygate and the internal opposition to prime minister boris johnson himself, which have led him to present a law that means, as all those who have preceded me in the use of the word have said, unilaterally breaking the commitments and the international agreement signed with the european union. agreements are meant to be respected and boris johnson's bill is a clear breach, an illegal unilateral change to an agreement that he had decided to be so. we certainly won't allow it. the protocol itself - the agreement itself - provides for mechanisms to resolve differences and discrepancies through dialogue. but there's no dialogue if one of us doesn't want to.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much and i fully understand that this debate is sometimes very emotional. everybody who visited belfast, who visited flurrybridge, who saw the video of how that area looked 25, 30 years ago with the military watchtowers – and now there is a thriving business community and healthy cross-border trade, peace and a clear wish from the people of northern ireland and ireland to cooperate, to work together and definitely not to have a hard border and definitely not to have a dual regulatory regime – everyone who’s been there or felt that history has to be a little bit emotional. that is because we need to protect the peace and we need to deliver what we promised the people of northern ireland – that we will be looking at how to offer them, in this very difficult post-brexit situation, the best of both worlds: access to the european single market and access to the uk internal market. this is what we are working towards and this is why i so much appreciate not only the unity among the member states, but also the strong support from the european parliament because we mean well: we want to solve the problem. we are bringing constructive solutions to the table. and i agree with all of you – mr mcallister, mr silva pereira, mr pedro marques and many others – who said that this is definitely a time for showing unity among the countries who share the same values. we have one huge challenge to the east of our borders, and it is definitely not the time to breach international law. on top of that, this house is very much rooted in democracy, in democratic values. it is a house of european democracy. so therefore, i also fully understand the clear expressions of the members of the european parliament who sometimes cannot understand, how come, when you have the majority of the members of the legislative assembly in northern ireland supporting the protocol, how come, when you have a majority of people in all opinion polls supporting the solutions we are bringing to the table, how come, when you have strong business support for dual market access, they are still struggling to get this done? i fully share the views of mr bourgeois, of ms barley and of others that the consequences of brexit are palpable. but in the case of how we wanted to conclude it and find the best way forward through the protocol, brexit in this case is clearly not complete. it is not done yet, and to use the london expression, the bill which we are discussing today, will not fix the protocol; it will nix the protocol, and it would reopen all the difficult discussions to which we know there is no other answer but the answer which we expressed in the protocol, in the withdrawal agreement and in the trade and cooperation agreement. on top of that, what is sometimes extremely sad, it seems that we share the same goals. if you are talking about a green line or an express line, what we want to achieve is to ease east-west trade as much as possible. we know that checking everything is not possible. but at the same time, we also know that checking nothing or the complete elimination of checks would simply open unguarded doors to the single market and would infringe upon the integrity of the single market, so that’s excluded. but to have a bare minimum of checks where, with the help of our uk partners, by accessing finally the it systems, by doing checks on risk-based analysis, the bare minimum of checks, that would work, and we are ready to discuss it and this is the content of our protocol. we offered also different easements for businesspeople on both sides of the border, through the expanded ‘trusted trader’ schemes. all these proposals are on the table and i definitely would like to reassure the members that we are ready to discuss them, but we want to have genuine negotiations that would be based on looking for a joint solution, which would avoid this unilateralism and which would not be some kind of window dressing where we are talking because we have to talk, bit the result is already given and it’s the bill because this is how the bill is drafted. therefore, i would like to reassure you that our door remains open. we hope that we will have these genuine negotiations, genuine talks, because this is what i believe that people in the eu, in northern ireland, in uk and in ireland are expecting of us. the last two things i would mention – because many of you appreciate it, there was a lot of creativity brought into our proposals. indeed, we provided and suggested a lot of different technical solutions, but technical solutions will not do the trick if there is no political will on the uk side to engage and to look for a joint solution. so this is what we need. we have creativity, we need political will in london to actually have genuine talks, to restart and to work on joint practical solutions. if this would not be the case and if the bill, as drafted, would be adopted, of course, in that case, we would be forced to use the measures at our disposal, including the measures which are included in the trade and cooperation agreement. so i hope that we would avoid that situation and we will find a way to restart talks, to be constructive, and to find a joint solution which would be good for northern ireland, for the uk, for ireland and for the european union. once again, thank you very much for this debate, for the opportunity to address you and for your unwavering support, which is so precious in these difficult days. thank you very much.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would conclude by thanking the european parliament for our joint efforts in upholding eu unity between all institutions; it remains our strongest asset. as ms loiseau said, this is definitely not the time to get divided. as many of us said, the united kingdom is our partner. we share the same values and currently we face together the same severe geopolitical situation. as mr mcallister said, mutual trust is key. we need to send to the united kingdom a single united signal. workable solutions can only be found jointly. there is neither legal nor political justification for attempting to unilaterally legislate at the national level to absolve oneself from the binding terms of an international agreement. the steps taken by the uk are a breach of trust and international law. the council stands fully united behind the commission’s approach. the unilateral approach chosen by the uk is harming our partnership which, especially in times like these, should be strengthened. we need to react adequately to the uk’s unilateral steps, but at the same time we invite the uk government to come back to the table to find joint pragmatic solutions together. this is how democracies work, to the benefit of their people and businesses. for the european union part, we are ready. last but not least, i would like to thank maroš šefčovič for his immense efforts.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a later part-session.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on 'easing the export of ukrainian agricultural products: key to the ukrainian economy and global food security' (2022/2745 ((rsp)). the debate will take place under the same conditions as those which have been set in the past, as regards seating, the words used, the place of the debate and the blue card.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, the global food security crisis affecting, especially, the poorest countries and low—income households is a matter of deep concern for all of us. the main cause of the current situation is russia’s unprovoked and unjustified aggression against ukraine. we see russia deliberately disrupting food exports and targeting food stocks. many vulnerable countries are facing growing levels of food insecurity, and low—income households have to cope with food prices that have reached record high levels since russia started its war of aggression against ukraine. food prices will unfortunately remain high for the near future, and urgent action is needed to prevent millions of people being pushed into acute food insecurity. the eu is working closely with all our international partners to alleviate the immediate humanitarian needs and to prevent further escalation of the food crisis in the most affected countries. we are all aware that russia’s blockade of ukraine and black sea ports is preventing the export of tons of ukrainian grain. we are determined to help ukraine bring back its agriculture production to world markets. the world needs ukrainian grain urgently. we continue to support ongoing un—led efforts to find a solution for reopening ukrainian ports. in parallel, we will pursue our action to facilitate transport of ukrainian grain overland through the solidarity lanes. replacing export capacity over sea is a huge challenge. together, we are trying to do the utmost to increase transport and export capacity overland and in this context, i would highlight the agreements signed last week with both ukraine and the republic of moldova to take road transport easier and subject to less administrative burden. beyond the immediate humanitarian needs, decisive action is needed to address the root causes of hunger and food insecurity in the world, in particular by reducing the dependency on food imports among the most vulnerable countries. this is part of the overall approach we have developed to respond to the food crisis. we will continue to give the highest priority to coordinated eu action along three tracks. first, solidarity through emergency relief and financial support to the most affected countries and communities. secondly, helping vulnerable, import—dependent countries build sustainable and resilient food systems. and third, easing tensions on global agricultural markets and promoting an open, transparent and predictable trade environment. effective international coordination is essential to ensure a comprehensive response. we are fully engaged in the g7 global alliance for food security and ready to make a substantial contribution, in particular through the eu’s global food security response and the farm initiative. the eu as a top agri-food producer will also continue to do its part in ensuring food security at the global level. the overall outlook for eu domestic production is positive for this year and should allow us to increase cereals supplies to, in particular, countries in north africa and the middle east. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, due to russia’s aggression against ukraine and the blockade of ukrainian ports, ukrainian grain and other agricultural goods can no longer reach their destinations. this is not only a european problem – it is a global one, and as a result, global food prices have risen drastically. russia’s illegal, unprovoked and unjustified invasion of ukraine has caused a big drop in food exports, and food prices have increased by up to 30%. before the war, ukraine exported up to 5 million tonnes of grain per month, 90% through the black sea ports. these flows now need to be redirected through rail, road and inland waterways, and then onward towards new ports. the commission’s ‘solidarity lanes’ action plan, adopted in may, proposed 20 actions ranging from short—term ones to medium- and long—term ones; these are dealing with increasing connectivity and capacity, also with a view to the reconstruction of ukraine. as a first step towards the implementation of the action plan, the commission has put in place a solid framework to manage the process. member states have designated solidarity lanes contact points to act as a one-stop shop for requests regarding their respective country. the commission has also directly reached out to the whole transport sector, which has responded massively. a fully fledged matchmaking platform started operating on 23 may. it brings all parties around the table: the national solidarity lanes contact points, the ukrainian authorities, the eu, and ukrainian market players. on the business matchmaking platform, 460 companies have already registered, of which over 200 are from ukraine. these numbers are still growing. now that the platform has been started, the commission is working round the clock to facilitate all potential alternative transport routes and to find solutions to best facilitate traffic along them. we are working with the member states to make checks and regulatory requirements as efficient as possible. this is particularly crucial for goods in transit. on 29 june, the eu signed temporary road transport agreements with ukraine and moldova. these will allow road transport to provide additional capacity. through close contacts with the member states and the stakeholders, the commission is mapping the capacity of our transport networks and increasing it. for example, we are cooperating with the danube commission to maximise the use of danube route. we also look beyond constanța, further north to the polish and baltic ports, such as gdańsk and klaipėda. there is also capacity in many ports that could be reached via slovakia and hungary, which still has some capacity for transit from ukraine. we also need to think of creative solutions, and we are glad to see that some of the member states are already working on that. for instance, romania has already set up dedicated convoys of trucks to smoothen the crossing of borders. in parallel, we are working on identifying which storage facilities in the eu are ready to take ukrainian grain in order to ensure that a buffer is created. ukrainian authorities have strongly welcomed our work, and are participating actively in the implementation of the action plan. we already see the results that the alternative corridors on the ground are delivering: about 1.3 million tonnes of grain and oilseeds and related products were exported in april and around 2 million tonnes in may. the latest estimates from the ukrainian agriculture ministry show that 2.5 million tonnes of these products were exported in june. this shows that our collective efforts are having a positive impact. we will not be able to fully substitute ukraine’s black sea ports; however, by increasing the agility, flexibility and resilience of the eu transport system we should be able to reach our goal of exporting at least 3 million tonnes of agricultural products per month from ukraine.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is true, commissioner, that in the last few weeks we have achieved something through the solidarity corridors. the latest figures from ukraine this morning are 2.17 million tonnes exported in june. but if we look closely at the cereals and sunflower oil that have been exported, we see quite different figures, and in my view very depressing, namely that exports are mainly directed to the european union, but that very little of them is directed to third countries via the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. a lot of livestock feed - that's not immoral, but the priority has to be wheat and our concern about how to ensure food security, how to satisfy world hunger, how to at least mitigate the catastrophe of hunger. this concern must be our priority. so we need a lot more of that in the supply chain. there's a lot more to go from leaving ukraine to getting to the destination. that is why i went with my committee to the polish-ukrainian border and took a close look at it. i will be leaving tomorrow with my colleagues for romania to see what is happening, what is good and what is not yet good. i think we need insurance guarantees. i think we need more storage capacity. i also believe that we must consider whether we, as the european union or the world food programme, should buy wheat from ukraine. we must also take seriously the concerns of farmers in neighbouring countries. the cereals must not only arrive and stay there, but they must go on, especially to third countries. so much done, much more to do.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ukraine is a politically and commercially important country for the european union. as of 2021, it was our fifteenth customer and the european union was its main supplier. ukraine has filled world markets with some products which are essential for human food and which are also essential for the ukrainian economy, because they are the basis of it. it is vital that we help them to continue in this role. the production of these basic foods must reach world markets. we must effectively facilitate transit through the solidarity corridors and unblock the situation at the ports of departure on the black sea. ukraine was already our partner. it is now also a candidate country for membership of our european union. this is a lesson for putin and all totalitarian rulers. the european union has already recently demonstrated its ability to deal with an unexpected health crisis through democracy, unity and solidarity with each other and with others. now we are going to demonstrate with those same elements that we are able to win against putin, to win against the consequences of his cruel war, the energy crisis and the food crisis that is beginning to be generated. no element can stop us. my political group can rest assured that we will always stand by ukraine.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months, european citizens have felt directly and painfully the effects of the war through price increases, including on basic foodstuffs, and have felt how our purchasing power is affected by the blockade of grain that putin's russia is imposing. and if we don't take urgent action to facilitate the export of stocks from ukraine, the impact will be enormous, through uncontrolled increases in food prices, through severe impact on the most vulnerable, famine that can trigger again mass migration to europe, from the middle east and north africa or sub-saharan africa. to prevent all this from happening, i propose that we work together with the commission and yes, we need to put pressure on the commission to ensure better coordination of what is happening at the border with ukraine. what we are proposing in the task force that we have set up in the renew group on food security is that these green corridors should actually exist and be monitored by the commission, but also that customs procedures at the border with ukraine should be simplified, which is delaying things a lot. raw materials and aid so that the ukrainian producers can continue their work and, why not, even a financial fund through which we can ensure the purchase of production for next year, which can be distributed for humanitarian aid, because it will be needed. unblocking grain exports from ukraine will help both ukraine's economy and the world's food security problems. the european union therefore has a great responsibility.
madam president, since the war began there has not been a european state, whether on the border with ukraine or not, that has not made efforts to help this bloody country. whether it was humanitarian, financial, military or agricultural aid, the european union jumped in to help. moreover, european leaders have decided to lift administrative or fiscal barriers to keep ukraine's agricultural sector running, to prevent the food crisis from deepening in some parts of the world and becoming a reality in others. although affected by the energy crisis, the explosion of food prices and the prolonged drought, which made the danube, an important transport route, unviable, my country is doing everything in its power to help its neighbours. the european commission must understand, however, that states in the vicinity of the conflict need more support, logistical or otherwise, to continue this effort and to ensure that the agricultural sector in the area does not suffer. europeans and the world in general need all the food produced that can be exported during this period.
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, today's russia is nothing but the successor of the soviet union, and stalin is probably proud of his successor, putin, who wants to leave his mark on history by terror, by murder, by unjustified aggression. i think it's no secret to anyone that subtle russia is no longer subtle, but acts directly through parties that fight against democracy, parties that are alien to freedom of expression, parties that despise the european union. we must stop them, because they are a real cancer of european politics. this populism must be eliminated and we must fight it, because recently, in romania too, president zelenskiy addressed parliament. who do you think sabotaged this activity? exactly those who think like putin and fight against europe.
madam president, it has been made very clear: today the proxies are silent, they are looking the other way, but nothing related to putin's russia of recent years is foreign to the current invasion of ukraine. the vast majority of those who have played into putin's strategy to weaken europe and to weaken the liberal rule of law - whether left, right or by secessionism, as in the case of catalonia - all of them anti-european, because they are anti-liberal, have made their mark in this house since the invasion of ukraine on 24 february. some have remained silent, others have become pacifists without limits, so that ukraine can say: ok, we will make a deal; we will make a deal whatever russia wants. no, you have to defend yourself, you have to win the free world. we know that putin has recruited elites, that there has been funding in some parties in france and italy and that catalonia was about to be a chaos for the whole of europe, in addition to weakening the institutions with lies, because the victims were the bad guys and the criminals were the victims. hybrid operations in our democracies are sheltered for years. we're not naive and we understand the board. we're going to defend the free world and we're going to defend ourselves from every lie. that's what we're gonna do, defend ourselves.
madam president, dear vice-president, dear minister, dear colleagues, russian diplomacy has been for long synonymous with propaganda. what is new now, and by far more effective, is its ability to manipulate our democracies, aided by the digitalisation of all social interaction. the thousands of emails we get every time we have an important vote in this house are mainly generated by russian bots and troll farms. the political weaponisation of societal debates, from brexit to vaccines to same-sex marriages, is actively supported and often instigated by russia. but the worst manifestation of russian interest in our democracies are those political parties engineered, sponsored or radicalised by the kremlin who act as their propaganda amplifiers in europe. as the 2024 elections are coming closer, the question is, what can we do? to start with, we must render our democracies more resilient. we must educate our public to differentiate, to critically filter the disinformation and manipulation they are exposed to. we need to also increase funding transparency for political parties to bring out in the open those politicians that pretend to defend our citizens’ interests while in fact surrendering them to the interests of putin’s delusions and the kremlin’s criminal strategies.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur ms cseh and all colleagues involved for this thorough and well—balanced report that covers a range of important issues. the commission and parliament agree that the protection of the eu budget, both in terms of expenditure and revenue, is of the utmost importance. and the efforts of the parliament, commission and member states in the fight against fraud have been remarkable in recent years, and particularly given the challenges caused by the covid—19 pandemic. to help europe recover from the pandemic, the eu has set up an unprecedented financial package through the new multiannual budget and the next generation eu, amounting to more than eur 2 trillion. protecting this money from fraud, corruption and other illegal activities is key. we at eu level and with our partners in the member states need to use all available tools to ensure we are more effective than ever before in ensuring that money is properly spent. we have no other choice. it is for this reason that the commission, like the parliament, welcomes the results achieved by the european anti-fraud office in 2021 and the european public prosecutor’s office in its first year of activity. another of the latest additions to our toolkit is the conditionality regulation, which allows for measures when breaches to the principles of the rule of law threaten the eu financial interest. as you know, the commission sent a written notification to one member state and we are currently assessing the reply we got. we also continue assessing the situation across member states. this regulation is the latest brick added to a revamped eu anti-fraud architecture, which has been built up in recent years, and comprises strengthened investigative functions for the european anti-fraud office, the just mentioned european public prosecutor’s office, the coordinating role of eurojust, the support of europol and close cooperation with and between the national authorities. we must ensure that this architecture remains fit for current and future challenges. and i will highlight three main themes in this respect: coordination and harmonisation; digitalisation of the fight against fraud; and stepping up the fight against corruption and organised crime. so first, our complex architecture needs coordination and harmonisation. all member states against which the commission has launched infringement procedures should swiftly take action and modify national legislation to correctly transpose the so-called pif directive. furthermore, the commission has made great efforts to promote the adoption of the national anti-fraud strategies. their number is increasing and the commission welcomes this development and has supported member states with guidance and knowledge—sharing. secondly, digitalisation and the availability of quality data on the recipients of eu funds and their beneficial owners is also important. the targeted adjustments of the financial regulation will be an opportunity to enhance protection of the eu budget by reinforcing the use of the digitalisation of controls and audits, and improving interoperability and the quality of the data for controls and audits, including both through the use of a single integrated it system for data mining and risk—scoring. it will also be an opportunity to enhance transparency and public scrutiny with regard to the use of the eu budget, notably by requiring member states implementing the union budget under the shared management to send information to the commission on the recipients of union funding at least once a year. the commission would then centralise this information on a single website. we have also proposed to extend the early detection and exclusion system to funds and the shared management for serious misconduct. the commission’s anti-fraud strategy, adopted in 2019, has largely been implemented. the results will be included in the next report on the protection of financial interests. we are now considering a revision of the action plan accompanying the strategy in line with our high anti-fraud ambitions. digitalisation will be an important topic. thirdly, fighting corruption is a key element of the european semester, as reflected in country specific recommendations and in the measures included by member states in their recovery and resilience plans. concerning organised crime, we have developed a comprehensive and integrated approach under the eu security union strategy and the most recent eu strategy to tackle organised crime adopted in 2021. the european public prosecutor’s office is also competent to investigate crimes affecting the union budget committed by criminal organisations such as vat carousel fraud. these initiatives are prime examples of our continuous engagement in the fight against fraud. so i thank you for your attention and i look forward to a constructive debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, honourable member of the european commission, dear members, budgetary control is based, at least mostly, on two principles: on the one hand, ensuring that the eu budget is properly spent according to the rules and regulations and, on the other hand, protecting the union’s financial interests and combating fraud. and at the end, of course, our most important task is to protect taxpayers’ money and be sure that we use our resources in an efficient way. so that’s why the pif report is so important. and it’s good to see that this year’s report is maybe a little bit more solid than they are on average. two reasons, of course, as we all know: covid-19, 2020, and then, after that, the decision to launch next generation eu and the rrf. so the opportunities for fraudsters grew, i would say almost exponentially. we don’t even know, but maybe the tip of the iceberg at the moment. so that’s why it is extremely important now not to lower our guard, but do exactly the opposite. and this is a message to the commission that we really have to take good care of our resources, help our olaf and eppo in this very important task. and in the report, you find the main elements that the rapporteur is suggesting. so i will give my full support to this report.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done together on this report, which is particularly important in view of the exceptional nature of the year 2020. the management of the pandemic has created new and increased risks, both in terms of revenue and expenditure, and potential new opportunities for fraudsters, including organised crime groups. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the recovery and resilience of the union economy, including on the impact of the measures taken on the financial sector. the eu's anti-fraud and anti-corruption architecture must be strengthened, in particular by providing olaf, eppo, eurojust and europol with the necessary tools and resources. synergy and exchange of information and operational complementarity between eu and national bodies need to be further enhanced, as is happening in the context of the next generation eu - law enforcement forum, jointly initiated by europol and italy. all to protect the financial interests of the european union.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the protection of the union's financial interests involves a complex framework that includes mechanisms for detection, investigation, punishment, recovery and prevention. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of the provisions of this regulation. they are the upright people who, when they see corruption in the companies or public institutions where they work, have the courage to denounce it. to report corruption, however, whistleblowers need secure channels and enhanced protection guaranteed by law. even the chief prosecutor of the european public prosecutor's office pointed this out last week, in the context of romania's failure to correctly and fully transpose the european directive on the protection of whistleblowers. and it's not alone, it's done it along with 17 other member states that have not yet transposed this directive correctly. moreover, in romania, the law recently adopted by the romanian parliament empties the directive of its content. this also puts at risk the work of the european public prosecutor's office and the framework for the protection of the financial interests of the union. i ask all those member states which have not transposed the directive to do so correctly and as quickly as possible, because otherwise we are not protecting the financial interests of the union, but rather opacity, fraud and corruption.
madam president, price is set by supply and demand. this is a basic economics and logic lesson taught in western schools back in the days for a long time. it seems though that ursula von der leyen and frans timmermans missed this logical lesson. you cannot on one side close down supplies of energy and on the other side increase the demand and expect that the price of energy is going to go down. i am pleased that today this parliament rejected the proposal to stop the nuclear and gas energy and i hope that in the future we will support such proposals, because we clearly need cheap energy and sustainable energy, and nuclear energy and gas energy are the solution to this problem.
madam president, colleagues, serbia is part of europe, and we must help this country to pursue its goal in being part of the european union. i was in serbia a few months ago during the presidential elections, and i talked to many serbian citizens, as well as with the president of serbia. unfortunately, with our position here, we put this country in a situation without escape. on one side, we are pressuring this country to do certain things against its own interests. and on the other side, the only support that this country receives in the security council is from russia because of the issue of kosovo. i think if we listen more to their problems and to their concerns, and we open our eyes to the actual situation in balkans, we could help this country pursue its european goals.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the recent heat wave and drought in the eu (2022/2746 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, heatwaves are among the deadliest disaster risks in europe. they hit the most vulnerable people and at the same time, usually those who are in the most difficult situations are at the biggest risk. at the same time, we see also this summer the increased risk of sparking wildfires. on top of this, heat waves contribute to water shortages and exacerbate droughts, as we can see in the northern italy these past days. the tragic event in marmolada is just the latest example of the disastrous risks linked to warmer temperatures and thus to climate change. the eu’s emergency response coordination centre is monitoring the situation and stands ready to coordinate eu assistance if needed by the italian authorities. as you probably heard, the copernicus emergency management service – these are our earth observation satellites operated by the european commission’s joint research centre – provide information for emergency response for different natural hazards like floods, wildfires and droughts. and its statistics show that since 2017, we have witnessed the most intense forest fires ever seen in europe and that we unfortunately expect that the 2022 forest-fire season could follow this trend. similarly, the copernicus emergency management service indicates that the present drought in europe could become the worst ever. if we are looking at the situation of the past years, we have been doing our utmost to learn from these experiences and therefore the commission has built an effective and flexible disaster response capacity under the union’s civil protection mechanism. however, emergency support and response alone are not enough. climate adaptation, disaster risk reduction and disaster preparedness are paramount. and this is true for europe as well as for the rest of the world. so let’s take the example of forest fires. in the context of the european green deal we strive to make our forests more biodiverse and more resilient. this is key to making forests less vulnerable to fire risk and it is an example of how, by working with nature and not against it, we can strengthen prevention and reduce disaster risk. in parallel, we work on preparedness. under the union civil protection mechanism this year, we financed by more than eur 40 million to support the resceu fleet capacities with 10 canadairs, one helicopter and two air tractors. and we are planning to purchase 12 additional aircraft under resceu. when national capacities are overwhelmed, resceu is ready to step in to provide additional support to confront disasters in europe and this year, for the very first time in the eu’s history, the commission is financing the pre-positioning of 204 firefighters and ground vehicles from bulgaria, finland, france, germany, norway and romania to greece during july and august. the first teams already arrived last week. this is truly european solidarity in action and a perfect example of disaster preparedness. and we will not stop there. the commission will strengthen its anticipation and foresight capacity. we will prepare disaster resilience goals, taking into account different risks and potential disaster scenarios. and one of these scenarios assesses the need to face heatwaves. it is the eu’s commitment if a disaster strikes, to respond and to deliver assistance in a spirit of solidarity both at home and abroad. through the union’s civil protection mechanism we pool our resources together and we provide a stronger and more coherent, collective response, wherever the needs are. and we continue providing our support also after a disaster through the european union solidarity fund (eusf), in coordination with other eu funds. through the latest amendment to the eu solidarity fund regulation, the threshold for the advances related to individual applications has been increased from 10% to a maximum 25% of the amount of the financial contribution, or at the maximum amount of eur 100 million from the previous agreed sum of eur 30 million. this provision is a crucial improvement in facilitating the rapid disbursement of eusf assistance in the form of a meaningful advance. the overall objective is to provide support in the aftermath of disasters but also to place the seeds for future better resilience.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, thank you for also mentioning the tragedy that has struck my country, marmolada. even before this drought wave, 52 million europeans lived in areas with water stress for at least one month a year. from 2017 to 2019 a significant drought affected the danube region, the rhine, in 2018. drought, besides causing disastrous damage to agriculture and inconvenience to the population, affects trade and transport by river. for the european union and the united kingdom, the estimates speak of some eur 9 billion in damage to agricultural production, with peaks of eur 1.5 billion in spain and eur 1.4 billion in italy, as the president of the piedmont region - which i welcome - one of the regions most affected by drought in my country - knows well. recovery funds for water supply, reducing losses in distribution networks and strengthening the agro-system are going in the right direction, as is the regulation for the reuse of treated water for agricultural purposes, but this is not enough. europe cannot deal with the problem by emergency measures alone, we must be decisive. that is why we are asking the commission to present a long-term plan. we need a grand invasion plan that has two purposes: to provide water for citizens and agricultural activities and to create a large-scale clean and renewable energy project through the pumping system and floating solar panels. an amendment to directive 2001/18 to liberalize the use of new assisted evolution technologies, dissociating them from gmos. new agricultural biotechnologies can provide a test bed for drought and pest-resistant plants. a european mapping of water districts is needed to rebalance water availability and meet the most urgent needs. more investment in new technologies applied to agriculture following the israeli model. satellites, drones and other military-derived technologies eliminate waste and determine the water requirements of different types of land cultivation. in conclusion, to do all this we need more flexibility in the management of the recovery funds now, but above all we need the courage to have a single european fiscal policy, starting with a new recovery fund.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, some people think that money is the most important resource. but what happens when a resource like water disappears, like a river in italy to mr. tajani in front of me, disappears from our planet? water is an inexhaustible resource and its value cannot be quantified. europe is barely breathing. the forests, the lungs of europe are burning before our eyes. harvest burning in timis, 16 fires in the last 24 hours. it hasn't rained in maramureş for three months. some people lose four inches a day. in the city of galatia, sand islands have been forming for weeks, in the danube, islands. can you see that? the mayor of dumbrăvița urges his citizens to use the water with the portion at a reduced pressure as much as possible and only for household purposes. do you really think that everyone's contribution, no matter how small, doesn't matter? we have to stop pumping carbon into the atmosphere now. we have to continue to provide our most important resource to our children.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, i think we have a duty not to have a water emergency in an hour of talk, an hour of what i would call "blah, blah, blah". we need concrete action, the european institution has a duty to give concrete answers, unless we really want to replace our agriculture, our food with the euro-madness of having us eat cockroaches, bugs, grasshoppers or even dogs. i think we need to do three things. first, compensate immediately those farms which are in danger of losing their harvest; we have to put ourselves in their shoes, there are farms that invest 200, 300, 400, 500 thousand euros to be able to have the fruit of a harvest and after facing numerous costs today they are in danger of not having to reap their sacrifices. sleepless nights from work, sleepless nights from fear. you think that in lombardy 50% of farms are at risk of closure. so he needs immediate compensation. we need resources to calm the rising food prices that will occur, we need the essential appropriations to carry out the waterproofing works in the water reservoirs, and our engineers are designing these works all over the world, and our italian companies are carrying them out all over the world. we must not continue to make mistakes, otherwise the agri-food sector will suffer the same fate as the mechanical engineering sector, the footwear sector and the italian manufacturing sector. so let's take the three billion we have today for insect policy and put that three billion into the work that is needed to respond to farmers, citizens and infrastructure in the country.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in my home in berlin-brandenburg, too, devastating forest fires are raging. but these are not unexpected natural disasters, but direct and severe consequences of man-made climate change. it is also true that a minority of speculators continue to profit from the fossil fuel crisis and the exploitation of nature and its resources. the question at this point is: are we going to sit back and watch or are we going to be brave actors? the backward step taken yesterday by a majority of the european parliament, namely declaring nuclear power and gas as economically viable and green, is in my view a fatal mistake. instead, profiteers must be taxed in a sensible way. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. the regions and local authorities in particular need effective support in this respect. this must be part of a rapid eu social crisis package and part of a long-term eu support policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been mentioned, a few days ago, due to high temperatures, a huge ice sheet caused the death of several people in the marmolada mountains in italy. in addition, the italian council of ministers has declared a state of emergency due to drought for five days. globally, droughts have increased by 29 percent in number and duration since 2000, and if this trend continues, several studies suggest that by 2030, 700 million people will be at risk of drought displacement, and by 2050, 75 percent of the world's population will be affected by drought. it is therefore essential to direct our efforts and resources towards eco-sustainable actions, emission reductions and agricultural practices that waste less water and, more generally, towards actions to protect the land in line with the new climatic conditions. earth no longer sounds timid alarms, we have reached a tipping point faster than expected. we live our lives more sustainably, because we owe it to present and future generations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the drought in certain parts of the mediterranean basin, particularly in italy, is having a serious impact on agriculture. this is not just a problem for farmers, but unfortunately it is also a problem for consumers. food security in europe is already at risk because of the war in ukraine, food prices have been rising for months and it is becoming increasingly clear that the harvest in the european union this year, especially in the mediterranean areas, will be lower, creating further problems. it is therefore necessary and urgent to draw up a plan to prevent such phenomena in the future. we need to invest in a system of water storage and storage, and try to use these systems also to produce hydroelectric power or renewable energy. but agriculture must also learn to conserve water. we need to invest in research to find ways of using the water available efficiently. precision agriculture, sensors and satellite systems can make a major contribution to this. we will then need more and more drought-tolerant plants. genetic improvement and also the use of new biotechnologies are more necessary than ever and we must finally legislate in this parliament to make these technologies applicable in europe. we must also make better use of the opportunities offered by the agricultural policy. the member states are finishing their work on the cap strategic plans in these very weeks. we must provide farmers with efficient systems to insure against adverse weather conditions, which unfortunately are increasing. in recent years we have been working on and developing innovative systems, such as mutual funds, which now have to be put into practice. only a combination of all these elements can lead to a sensible management of these phenomena in the future.
mr president, in the first heat wave we experienced between 11 and 19 june, we suffered in my region, in zamora, in the culebra mountains, one of the most devastating fires in spain. more than 24,000 hectares burned. the entire economic structure of this area destroyed. in the 1990s we said that the big fires were those that ravaged more than 500 hectares; today, more than 24,000. we can predict these fires by the heat waves, but we have to change the means of fighting them. we cannot address the challenges of these sixth-generation fires with the means of the past. that is why i ask you, commissioner, to review, update and amend the civil protection plan for forest fire emergencies and to ensure that we are able to keep the firefighting services active throughout the year, because these large fires are no longer extinguished. we can only prevent them. solidarity is needed for disasters, but our duty is not to declare them, but to prevent them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, drought kills. we're still looking for missing persons in the collapse of the marmolada's nightclub a few days ago, after casualties and injuries. a great tragedy that tells us that time is running out. even the right wing is forced to admit, after years of denial, that climate change is right in front of us today, it's undeniable. it's a phenomenon that leads to rapid glacial disappearance, to terrible drought, it's a macroscopic manifestation of something that's happening around us. after this very heavy heat wave, we see the risk of a drought, the worst in decades, which dries up rivers and water reserves with very serious damage to the environment, agriculture and citizens, we see it in italy and we see it in europe. what are we waiting for to radically change our economic systems? what has to happen to make everyone's eyes open? we're working together because we're really running out of time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the climate crisis is not coming, the climate crisis is here. and we're going to see what happens at 1.5 degrees of warming. what's going to happen if we're going to get to two degrees or more of warming? this planet is already on fire. not only is there a crisis in southern europe, but forests are burning in the middle of germany. much worse are the effects of the climate crisis in north africa, where people are actually starving and don't know what they're going to eat tomorrow. what are we to make of this? we made a fatal decision yesterday. we need to limit co2 emissions. that's the answer, not genetic engineering or firefighting planes. we'll have to work on that. we need a different approach to agricultural systems. we need a different way of handling water. and we also have to realize that it's not just agriculture that's affected, but also the disappearance of forests in europe, which is also contributing to climate change. i think we have to think seriously about this now: adapt our agricultural policy, adapt our water management and finally start working seriously on reducing co2. that's the only answer.
mr president, commissioner, at present 13 member states are affected by desertification. but this phenomenon is continually expanding across europe. in 2018, the european court of auditors concluded that the measures taken to combat desertification are inconsistent. the european parliament supported me in december 2020 in an amendment to a resolution of the envi commission, in which i called on the european commission to present a clear strategy to combat desertification, as well as the allocation of the necessary funds to manage this phenomenon in all affected regions. we will not be able to achieve this without european funds dedicated to combating desertification and land reclamation, without serious investment in irrigation systems and in the development of wastewater reuse systems. next, i ask the european commission to set an ambitious timetable for action and to monitor progress to ensure that no region is left behind.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this interesting debate. cycling undoubtedly presents a huge potential for climate change mitigation, offering a cheap and accessible alternative to motorised trips, in particular in cities. it can also alleviate the congestion and air quality problems in urban areas, while at the same time bringing about health benefits associated to more active lifestyles. there are extensive and increasing eu funds going towards cycling infrastructure and related measures; on top of that, additional sources such as the eu cohesion and structural funds. we are now witnessing very substantial cycling investments included in many national recovery plans and these are strongly supported by the commission. encouraging walking, cycling and public transport in cities can bring five million tonnes of oil savings. everybody can play their part; authorities at various levels as well as ordinary citizens. i have taken note of your comments and will pass them on to commissioner adina vălean. bicycle use has been on the rise in many eu cities over recent years and the commission would like this momentum to continue.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
mr president, i was happy to vote in favour of the refuel eu aviation initiative report. the aim of the report is to boost the supply and demand for sustainable aviation fuels in the eu, in line with the goal of reducing aviation’s environmental footprint, which is huge, to achieve the eu's climate targets. it is imperative that european planes use the greenest and most sustainable fuels to help the eu become climate neutral by 2050. and it is important that we invest much more in the development and deployment of sustainable fuels made in , in order to decrease costs. and that is one lesson i think we have learned from covid and from the russian invasion of ukraine, that we need to put more resources into producing things so we can have the label ‘made in europe’ on them.
mr president, we are seeing and experiencing more and more extreme weather events. we are feeling every day the rising temperatures, the drought or the floods that are affecting areas that were not experiencing these phenomena until a few years ago. it is clear that we need to react urgently at european and even global level. that's why i decided to change the political direction of the european union more than three years ago, in 2019, with the green deal. however, it takes balance, innovation support and time for the economy to adapt. i understand the momentum and the desire to act quickly, but we must not overlook the cost that these changes will have on the lives of our citizens. the sustainable aviation fuels report strikes a balance between what we want and what we can do in the short term, but also in the medium and long term. that is why i supported this report and i congratulate my colleague from vilnius, søren gade, on a balanced report which supports both the environment and aviation.
that concludes this item.
the minutes of this meeting shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next meeting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 7 july 2022.
dear colleagues, these past weeks have been very tough. we have witnessed the passing away of mikhail gorbachev, one of the most significant figures of the second half of the 20th century. we continue to face the consequences of climate change. bulgaria and pakistan have faced devastating floods. major wildfires have caused severe impacts on member states such as france, portugal, spain and greece. and now the world grieves the loss of her majesty queen elizabeth ii. allow me to pause on behalf of the european parliament and to extend heartfelt condolences to the people of the united kingdom and the commonwealth. few have shaped global history like her majesty queen elizabeth ii. and her words on european unity spoken in this european parliament in 1992 still resonate today. as a monarch, her majesty’s unshakeable commitment to duty and service was an example to all. her legacy will forever live on, inspiring many generations to come. at this point i would like to invite you all to stand for a minute of silence to honour her memory. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)i have also been informed that alexei navalny’s situation has deteriorated dramatically and he has now been put in isolation, which will impact further on his health condition. so we once again call for his immediate release. this week, 70 years ago, on 10 september 1952, here in strasbourg, paul-henri spaak, presided over the opening of the first ever session of the common assembly of the european coal and steel community. it was the starting point of the parliament in which we meet today. in 70 years, the assembly has grown from strength to strength. from being a consultative body with limited powers, it became a true institution embracing european democracy and the expression of european public opinion. in 1962, it changed name and became the european parliament, a further step towards becoming the only directly elected, multilingual, multiparty transnational parliament in the world. over time, consecutive treaties allowed this house – with its three places of work in brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg – to develop into a powerful, independent political forum with co-legislative and budgetary powers that impact millions of european citizens, and with an ongoing illegal war in ukraine that destroys, kills and undermines the political will of a people, we know today more than ever the importance of upholding the democratic voice of citizens and the democratic european values that this house stands for. and that is why, from this month until next summer 2023, a number of commemorative events will be held at the european parliament to mark its 70th anniversary.
and to start this weekend, the european parliament in strasbourg is opening its doors to the 2022 edition of ideal libraries, with talks, meetings and readings taking place right here. because european books, art and culture are also part of what unites europe.
further events will be announced through the coming months, and in particular, an official acknowledgement of this 70-year milestone for european democracy will take place during the november 2020 plenary session of our parliament. and to close these opening statements, i also wanted to give you a little bit of information that works have taken place over the summer to make our house truly accessible for everybody. so there has been a ramp that is installed for everybody who cannot walk to the lectern to be able to use the lectern. i think that was finally the time that we give this for our colleagues.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sittings of 7 july 2022 are available. are there any comments? that not being the case, the minutes have been approved.
following the election of hélène laporte, julie lechanteux, joëlle mélin and manuel bompard as members of the french national parliament, parliament takes note of the vacancy of their seats from 29 july 2022, in accordance with the rules of procedure. following the resignation of luis garicano, parliament takes note of the vacancy of his seat from 2 september 2022, in accordance with the rules of procedure and shall inform the national authority concerned thereof. following the appointment of manuel pizarro as minister of health within the portuguese government, parliament takes note of the vacancy of his seat from 10 september 2022, in accordance with the rules of procedure. i have received from the competent authorities of france notice of the election to the european parliament of marie dauchy, patricia chagnon, eric minardi and marina mesure to replace hélène laporte, julie lechanteux, joëlle mélin and manuel bompard respectively, with effect from 29 july 2022. to those colleagues, we bid them welcome. i have also received from the competent authorities of spain notice of the election to the european parliament of ana miranda to replace pernando barrena arza with effect from 5 september 2022. to ms miranda, we also wish her welcome. i point out that you will take your seats in parliament and on its bodies in full enjoyment of your rights, as provided for in the rules of procedure.
madam president, it is an honour to return to this parliament to defend the galician people and to do so in my own language.
welcome again!
on the proposal of the juri committee, parliament decides to validate the mandate of matjaž nemec with effect from 18 may 2022 and max orville with effect from 22 may 2022.
dace melbārde has left the ecr group and now sits with the non-attached members as from 7 september 2022.
the verts/ale, id, ecr and the left groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees. those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
several committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports, which constitute the mandates for the negotiations, are available on the plenary webpage and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political group(s) reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday 13 september at midnight, that the decisions to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament on the decisions to enter into negotiations is made within the aforementioned deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
the regi committee has transmitted a corrigendum to a text adopted by the parliament. pursuant to rule 241(4) this corrigendum will be deemed approved unless, no later than 24 hours after its announcement, a request is made by a political group or members reaching at least the low threshold that it be put to the vote. the corrigendum is available on the plenary webpage; its title will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
i would also like to inform you that, since the adjournment of parliament’s session on 7 july 2022, i have signed, together with the president of the council, four acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. i would also like to inform you that on wednesday, i shall sign, together with the president of the council, one act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of the acts concerned will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents on 8 september 2022 pursuant to rule 157, has been distributed. i would like to inform you that i have received one request for urgent procedure from the commission pursuant to rule 163 on macro-financial assistance to ukraine. the vote on this request will be taken tomorrow and, if adopted, the vote will be held on thursday. finally, we move to the changes requested by the political groups. for the monday, that means for today, the id group has asked that the council and commission statements on surveillance and predator private spyware systems in greece, scheduled as the third point this afternoon, be replaced by a commission statement on commission’s support for femyso, an association suspected of radical islam. i give the floor to jean-paul garraud to move the request on behalf of the group.
madam president, i am a little puzzled by the request from the id group, because the id group did not mention this request in the conference of presidents, which is the place where the agenda is discussed. i am far from wanting to eliminate the idea that the plenary is sovereign, but i do not see any new element that justifies putting this item on the agenda instead of the previous one because it is the point that has been highlighted, namely the spying on opposition leaders or journalists by a union government. without commenting on the merits of mr garraud's request, i think that if it is so important, then his group leader should bring it to the conference of presidents and we will decide on it.
i now put the request of the id group to the vote. (the house rejected the request)accordingly, the agenda remains unchanged. (the order of business was thus established)
the next item is the debate on the report by ulrike müller, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on a new eu forest strategy for 2030 – sustainable forest management in europe (2022/2016(ini)) (a9-0225/2022). i remind you that this is when the free seating is applied, with the exception of the two first rows that are allocated to group leaders. then you will be able to request catch—the-eye and blue cards via your voting machine after having inserted your voting card. i would also like to remind you that the interventions will continue to be made from the central lectern, except for catch-the-eye, blue cards and points of order.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report on the forestry strategy which we are discussing today focuses on the close to nature and sustainable management of our forests. it is designed to enable our forests to fulfil their multiple roles: climate resilience, carbon sinks, habitat for plants and animals, provision of wood for work and fuel, and work and recreation for people. the people are first and foremost the 16 million forest owners with the 500,000 workers in forestry. i would like to thank all of you very warmly today. they have been responsible for managing our forests for centuries and ensuring that the necessary reforestation takes place. of course, our forests in europe face enormous challenges. on the one hand, they are suffering from the effects of climate change: drought, extreme weather. this requires quick action by the foresters. forests need to be rebuilt to be more resilient. we're running out of time. but that also means that you have to cut down trees to plant new trees. but the forests are truly multi-talented. they are climate protectors by capturing and storing co2, but also by providing sustainable materials. in doing so, they make an irreplaceable contribution to green growth and green jobs. they provide a habitat for biodiversity. they provide clean air and clean water. they are a place of recreation and a source of income. forests are multifunctional, and we are very dependent on them to fulfil these functions. this requires balanced, sustainable management. this is also a demand of the forestry workers. the fact that there are different political levels at stake does not make things any easier in the eu, commissioner. a coherent policy with the right incentives is therefore crucial. the new eu forestry strategy was therefore eagerly awaited by forest owners and foresters in particular. the report we are now presenting sets out our expectations for the implementation of the strategy. the draft report i have drawn up is based on four guiding principles. firstly, the forests of europe are multifunctional by virtue of their historical development. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. secondly, sustainable forestry is the most typical and promising approach to forest management to achieve the various objectives in a balanced way. it is important that sustainable forestry is not misunderstood as a fixed, outdated system. it must adapt dynamically to the challenges in order to resolve conflicts of objectives and create synergies. thirdly, the owners and promoters are the pillars on which the strategy is based. they know their forests like no one else, and they have a natural self-interest in sustainable healthy forests through decades of extensive management periods. the strategy can only succeed if it sets the right approaches for foresters and supports them, rather than blocking them with more and more requirements and bureaucracy. we must take into account the fact that a large proportion of european forests are owned by smallholders with only a few hectares. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forestry sector is not left behind. fourth, and by no means last, the forests are local. the use of local knowledge and experience is therefore essential for the proper management of forests. to do this, the strategy must follow a bottom-up approach. it must build on and improve on existing legislation wherever possible within the framework of subsidiarity and proportionality. we need to work with the owners and stakeholders in the regions to ensure that our forests can meet the many expectations. the strategy must create policy coherence in the spirit of these four guiding principles, particularly in climate and species protection, but also in the spirit of the bio-based circular economy and green growth. multifunctionality, sustainable management, ownership as a pillar and locality. i would like to thank our shadow rapporteurs for their intensive work and look forward to the debate on the forests of europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank this house for putting the new eu forest strategy for 2030 on the agenda of this plenary session. and, of course, i would particularly like to thank the rapporteur, ms müller, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for this comprehensive and balanced report and for the clear support for the new eu forest strategy reflected therein. the new eu forest strategy adopted in july 2021 is the flagship initiative of the european green deal that provides the framework for the forests to deliver on their share to our environmental and climate ambition and to secure livelihoods in rural areas and support a sustainable forest-based bioeconomy. at the core of the strategy is the recognition of the multifunctionality of the forests and the balance between their economic, social and environmental functions. other equally important elements of the strategy are ensuring that forest ecosystems are restored, resilient and adequately protected, the contribution of forests and the entire forest-based value chain for achieving a sustainable and climate-neutral economy and adequate forest monitoring and planning. i would like to highlight a few points that you have also raised in your report on the multifunctional role of forests. i think we all agree that forests fulfil many functions and offer many services to our society. they provide numerous goods and services. they are essential for biodiversity, climate change mitigation, water replenishment and regulation, recreation and health services. and, at the same time, they provide food, green jobs – just to name a few. so if we want our forests to continue providing their multiple goods and services, we should also make sure they are in good health, that they are diverse and resilient. therefore we need to protect the eu’s last remaining primary and old-growth forests. we need to improve the quality and resilience of existing forests through restoration and adaptation to climate change. we need to increase the quantity and quality of the eu’s forest cover and we need to provide sufficient financial incentives to forest owners and managers to make this happen. the commission strongly encourages member states to exploit adequate financial support to forests and the forest-based sector. the common agricultural policy is a key source of public financial support to eu forests. we want to enhance uptake of cap support for forests. member states have the flexibility to design their forest-related interventions according to their needs and specific conditions. but good policy needs good data. and there is a general need for more, better and comparable data on european forests and their management. to this end, the commission will propose a new eu framework for forest monitoring and strategic plans to develop an eu-wide forest observation framework that provides open access to detailed, accurate, regular and timely information on the condition and management of eu forests and to the many products and ecosystem services that forests provide. the framework will use remote sensing technologies and geospatial data, including earth-observation copernicus capacities integrated with ground-based monitoring. as part of that framework, member states’ competent national or regional authorities could develop strategic plans for forests on the basis of a common general structure and elements. we are currently working on the impact assessment of the new framework and, in this context, public and targeted consultation on its main elements are currently ongoing. we plan to publish the commission’s proposal in the second half of 2023. finally, i would like to say a few words on forest governance. because of their multifunctionality, forests contribute to many different eu policy objectives. we need to ensure the necessary coherence of these objectives. in the new eu forest strategy, the commission announced its intention to enhance the governance for forest-related matters to make it more inclusive and interdisciplinary, and to reflect all objectives of the new eu forest strategy and their interlinkages with other eu policies such as climate change, biodiversity and many more. in order to implement this commitment, the commission will soon present a proposal to revise the governance and mandate of the standing forestry committee to establish a more inclusive and interdisciplinary group. president, honourable members, let me once again thank you for this important discussion on forests and the support of the new eu forest strategy. thank you.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. forests are part of our landscape, our cultural and natural spaces, they are economic spaces, conservation areas, recreation areas, the core of biodiversity. but for forests to be able to provide this diversity, they need attention, they need protection and care. the responsibility for this lies with the member states and the local authorities, and we want to remain that way. the forests of europe are too diverse in their functions and needs to be brought under the umbrella of a european forestry policy. but a european forestry strategy, which we are now redefining, is the legitimate attempt to find common ground and to tackle european challenges successfully. our forests are under pressure from climate change, poor management and pests that are increasing many of our forests. it is a matter of common strategies and it is also a matter of common research. and the rampant spread of the bark beetle needs a european response. in addition to protection, the forest - especially the commercial forest - also needs to be used. the forestry strategy presented by the commission is far too superficial. if forests are to provide building materials such as cement or steel and energy, they must also be used sustainably. only then can the forest rejuvenate and adapt to climate change. this does not, of course, exclude the possibility that there are forests which are protected because of their protective function or their special characteristics. but the stock of wood has been increasing for years in virtually all the member states of the european union. that is why we should stop pretending that we are losing our forests in europe through over-harvesting. we must use them, and then we can make a significant and decisive contribution to a sustainable circular economy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their exemplary collaboration in finalising this report on the forest strategy, in which we have managed to strike a balance between all three functions of forests: environmental, social and economic. this balance is extremely important today, in the context of multiple crises, of historic drought and of approaching winter. we're going to need forests as a source of biodiversity and health, but also as a resource. sustainably managed, forests can help us achieve our renewable energy goals and energy independence. in addition, the report calls for the protection of forest-dependent communities. it calls for an impact study before designating protected areas, but also for financial compensation for forest owners who will contribute to the targets. meeting these goals should not be left to the community and industry. commissioner, romania has already taken important steps towards better protection and management of forests, but as one of only four member states with virgin forests, it needs to be helped to achieve this important goal for the whole union.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, today, in the summer of 2022, which was the hottest in european history, we are still irresponsibly cutting down forests. and so that you don't think that i'm talking about the third world, i'll tell you that europe has cut 842,000 hectares of forest this year, and the amazon has lost 900,000 hectares, which is comparable. not to mention the age-old forests that, once lost, are lost forever. folks, a well-protected forest is an investment in the future, it's an investment for my daughter, for your children, an investment that protects us from the scorching summers when the air is unbreathable. we have some good news. back home in sibiu, for example, the new king charles launched europe's largest project to restore europe's forest landscapes. i am also pleased to see in today's strategy initiatives such as forest monitoring based on common indicators and recommendations for nature-friendly forestry practices. people, the forest, the air doesn't stop at the border, they are our chance for life, they are the chance for future generations.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, we romanians have an old saying: 'who has a forest has gold' - it is the most precious thing we can have. and yet, why do we continue to put our forests at risk? why are we still attacking nature - as in the case of the comorova forest in constanța county, the only living forest on the romanian black sea coast? fortunately, there are still people who don't give up and fight for every tree in their city, people like abdurefi semiran or dumitru paris, who take matters into their own hands and stop the abuse. they don't turn a blind eye to money. it's very important, but their civic initiatives mean little. politics has to do more. so under bolsonaro, deforestation in the amazon has reached its highest level in 14 years, right before our eyes. we need global action, not just european action, but it is good that we are starting today with european action. what distinguishes great leaders from weak ones in such a trying time ? courage and making tough decisions.
mr. president, next monday will be the one year anniversary of the eruption of the cumbre vieja volcano on my island of la palma. for 85 days, the lava buried homes and roads, destroyed water infrastructure and crops, and, worse, ended the dreams and illusions of many palm growers who lost everything. it was also a month of solidarity and many promises, but let us not be fooled, the reconstruction of la palma will never be possible without these official promises being translated into action. the cabildo insular and the municipalities alone cannot do it; the president of the spanish government has promised economic aid on each of his visits to the island, which has not just arrived, but is also insufficient; the same is true of the canary islands government and even of europe, which has so far only received an advance from the european union solidarity fund. the palm-growers want fair solutions, they need to recover part of their lives; it is the future of an entire island, the isla bonita, that is at stake: we must not be forgotten.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after two years of the pandemic, after the energy crisis we are all experiencing, after the shock of war at the doorstep of the european union and the wave of refugees from ukraine, european citizens are facing a new challenge: inflation, the galloping rise in prices. all member states are facing this price increase. we see every day that the shopping cart is getting smaller and smaller, and the price paid for the house is getting higher and higher. this is already a european problem to which we must have a european response. we have the resilience and recovery plan. we have the fresh experience of the pandemic, of joint action at european level, and we have the evidence that this approach works. it is time to think harder about this problem and to intervene in such a way as to ensure that the lives of europeans do not take a negative turn. the european union has shown that it can act intelligently and effectively when needed. that is why i believe that now, more than ever, greater cooperation between the european institutions and the member states is urgently needed, so that europeans can have a well-deserved return.
mr president, the state of the union address, which will take place in two days' time in the plenary of this parliament, is eagerly awaited by all europe. but if it does not contain the most important element, namely a strong social pillar, this presentation will cause a wave of discontent in the european union. millions of people simply cannot find ways to survive, and the coming winter is freezing employees and employers alike. it is therefore imperative that the commission's vision of solutions to the energy crisis be complemented by a financial package to prevent and combat unemployment, an extension of the sure programme so that financial aid reaches those who could lose their jobs, or a supplement to the social climate fund, which must be calibrated to the new reality. either way, it needs a lifeline. the commission president promised at the beginning of her mandate that no one would be left behind. europeans now expect to keep their word. inaction could have dramatic consequences, both socially and economically, but also politically.
mr. president, putin has blood on his hands. he's the one who ordered this absurd war to begin, brutally attacking a neighboring country that didn't do anything to provoke him. in this war, children died, people of all ages died, a lot of innocent citizens died. but i want to mention them in the plenary of this parliament, to pay tribute to those who lost their lives on the eastern front in ukraine, such as dumitru ignătescu, denis morăras, yuri yamnățchi, alexandru sprânceana, ion zaieț, alexei anichitoi, marin melnicov and many other heroes who died on the ukrainian front. they're romanians from ukraine. we have a community of half a million citizens in this country, and these people have gone to duty there, and to them i dedicate this message as a tribute and a token of appreciation.
mr president, commissioner, climate change is a fact! europe is experiencing a dramatic drought which, according to the jrc, may even be the worst in the last 500 years. the situation is particularly serious in southern europe. just to give you an idea, commissioner, in may of this year in my country, 97% of the whole territory was in severe drought, and since july the whole territory has been in severe or even extreme drought, which, added to the extremely high temperatures, has unfortunately created the conditions for the occurrence of serious fires during this summer. the immediate result is the second worst cereal crop year on record in my country, portugal, and marked falls in fruit production and in the vegetative development of pastures and fodder. and so what i am asking the commission to do, which is not original but necessary, is to assess in a continuous and thorough way the effects of the drought situation on food production and the viability of agricultural holdings, taking into account the diversity of the regions, and promoting the necessary measures for action now and in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the drought of recent months is affecting hundreds of thousands of europeans. climate change is evident, even if some colleagues in the european parliament are determined to deny it to the electorate. reality shows that we need to accelerate pollution reduction measures and act at union level to ensure that we are taking steps in the right direction. for these measures to be effective, we need a collaboration with both the electorate and the economic agents. the measures we take must focus on boosting green industries, on massive afforestation, not on banning efficient logging. rapid programmes are needed to reforest, as soon as possible, the forest areas that have burned this year, as well as the areas where massive deforestation has taken place. this is where we need to act together and where there is a need for increased cooperation between the european commission and the member states, whether they are more reticent or less specialised in this area. climate change can only be slowed or stopped if we take positive action, if we focus on solutions and not prohibitions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for almost a year, my country has been waiting for the european commission's permission to reopen a damaged nrp, with zero cents for agriculture, to finally allocate money for irrigation. i hope that the commission will take a decision quickly on the basis of the recent statistics, because the data show us a catastrophic, alarming situation. at the european level, we are facing the most severe drought in at least the last 500 years. in july, 64% of the union territory was under alert and in august, the crops of maize, soybean and sunflower were 16%, 15% and 12% respectively below the five-year average. in romania alone, 500,000 hectares are a disaster, but the final balance will certainly be much worse. i welcome the initiative of the european parliament to have this resolution and stress the urgency with which it must be addressed. the union's food security and environmental objectives cannot be achieved without rapid, effective support for farmers in all member states affected by climate change.
mr president, commissioner, after a great deal of work and complicated negotiations, we have taken a step towards implementing the european pillar of social rights. principle six says very clearly that workers have the right to fair wages. we can no longer have member states that forget to update salaries on time or that use all sorts of vague methods of uncertain negotiation or political compromise for something that should be a minimum basis for european citizens. the criteria in the directive are vital in times just like the present, in a period of high inflation, to ensure that european workers have a minimum level of wage protection that compensates for the loss of purchasing power. we can no longer have unpredictability and cheapness on statutory minimum wages. that's what the directive does, and i think both workers and employers will benefit from that predictability. thank you very much to the co-rapporteurs agnes and dennis, thank you to the commissioner, mr schmit. member states do not need two years to implement this act.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, we are witnessing a crisis of devastating cost. in just one year, in my country, romania, meat has gone up 20%, bread has gone up 25%, oil has gone up over 50%, and i don't even want to talk about energy, electricity and gas prices. during this time, romanian citizens' salaries remained the same and any increases they received could not keep up with inflation and price increases. that's why i think it's essential that we do everything we can to leave no one behind and to fight poverty. i am proud to be able to vote today in the european parliament for the approval of the minimum wage directive. it's a big step forward and i hope we keep going, because we're on the right track.
madam president, dear colleagues, it is clear that people are rightly expecting solutions from the european union in this crisis. the truth is we have done a lot since the beginning of the invasion of the russian armed forces into ukraine in the area of energy. we have decided to create a european acquisition and storage mechanism so that we can buy gas together and we can store it together and we can allocate it to those countries which will need it. we have reduced our dependency on russian gas, which is now less than 9%. what do we still need to do from now on? firstly, in the short term, capping energy prices, including prices of gas imports from russia, is a needed measure firstly. and, secondly, a coordinated approach on the unreasonably high profits of energy companies. these companies have made lots of money this year. we need to see how they can also contribute to supporting people in need and enterprises in need. in the long term we need to completely reduce the dependency on fossil fuels from russia. for this, we need to invest in renewable energies. we have enough wind, enough solar, enough water in the european union and nuclear capacities for those countries who want to use them, including my own country, plus adjust the recovery and resilience facility repowereu to allow for investment into energy efficiency, energy connectivity and reducing energy dependency.
madam president, as chair of the employment and social affairs committee, i would like to underline to commissioner simpson the profound social dimension triggered by the war in ukraine and the energy crisis. indeed, winter is coming, dear colleagues, and we need immediate action on the energy market, as you all well suggested, but also a plan to empower and shield our citizens and entrepreneurs. this plan can exist right now under the form of repowereu, which is focused and targeted for energy independence. but we need to add an emergency dimension that can reach vulnerable households and entrepreneurs. this is why i am suggesting the european energy transition investment shield as a scheme for micro—investment grants, for energy efficiency and energy alternatives that can be done in forms of vouchers – and we have the experience of fead. these can actually be a very, very efficient way to prove that the european union is close to its citizens. vladimir putin has chosen war, blackmail and isolation. we should choose peace, unity and solidarity and be there for our citizens at household level with the help of repowereu.
madam president, the people who sent us to the european parliament are asking why the commission is not able to save them from the torment of huge energy prices. they're asking us to tell them who's to blame because they'll be sitting out the winter hungry and in the dark. and some, more knowledgeable, want to know why brussels is announcing measures of limited effect, as if we did not see, in our own house, the elephant that makes our daily lives a nightmare. it is an allusion to that hub in the european union that speculatively, non-transparently and uncontrolledly sets the price of gas, a price that remains unnaturally linked to that of electricity. that same price is then shamelessly raised by middlemen who pinch the supply chain, enriching a handful of people, impoverishing hundreds of millions and bankrupting companies. we have a legal framework that would allow us to combat this speculation, if we really wanted to. if not, we can let putin continue to make fun of us with his videos about the winter cold and his extremist puppets cause chaos throughout the union.
madam president, the european union has shown in its 65 years of history that it can face and manage crises. i am convinced that when the european union wants to, it can. and now it can effectively address and manage the energy crisis. firstly, a strong fund must be created which can withstand the energy crisis and support all those households which will suffer enormous consequences from the energy crisis. secondly, the european union must immediately give a strong impetus to the development of renewable energy sources, so that it can effectively replace liquid fuels and natural gas. thirdly, and most importantly, it must develop those areas where there is a future prospect of supplying energy to the european union. the european union must exploit this region and invest heavily in energy if we are to be able to supply the european union with natural gas and end any energy dependence.
member of the commission. – madam president, this was a substantial debate and shows how valuable dialogue is in this time of crisis. i have heard your concerns, but i must not forget all the actions taken until now. we have adopted guidance for member states – the toolbox – already in october last year. we presented our repowereu strategy in march. in may we backed this up with a full package of proposals. we have further extended the scope for member states to take action against the crisis, through regulated prices or by clearing intervention schemes like in spain, portugal or greece. we have adopted a joint policy on storage and a gas demand reduction plan in july. this work is paying off. we see monthly reductions in gas consumption across member states of around 10% compared to the previous five years. every member state is taking further action in line with our july plan. we are progressing towards the 15% reduction target, even if further work is still needed. i will continue to raise awareness among member states of the importance of containing demand also for electricity. i have heard the calls for more energy solidarity and for progress on the joint purchasing of gas on international markets. we have already made huge strides into diversifying away from russian gas. one example is the record increase in supply from the united states. we are already overshooting our target of 15 bcm of additional lng from the united states. last year we imported 22 bcm of gas. this year we are already at 40 bcm. we have concluded an important memorandum of understanding with egypt and israel. next month i’m going to algeria. the dialogue with norway and azerbaijan is ongoing. the nigeria platform is doing valuable work and we want to step it up further. on this basis, i will propose the next steps. i have also heard your concerns about the situation of companies and households, especially the most vulnerable. i welcome the support for an extraordinary intervention to help address the high prices ahead of the next heating season. targeting support to those who suffer the most from this crisis is necessary, while not forgetting the situation of industry. i also agree on the importance of increased attention to energy poverty. many of you mentioned that we need to look at both short-term and long—term challenges. we need to link these two, and i can confirm that we are working on the reform of the electricity market design and that we will present proposals early next year based on careful impact assessment. i welcome the stress many of you put on the fast deployment of renewables as the only structural response to europe’s energy security and competitiveness. i want to underline again that it is key to quickly adopt our proposal on permitting and authorisation, together with a revision of the renewable energy directive. tomorrow, the commission will present a proposal for an extraordinary and temporary intervention to address high energy prices. president von der leyen will also outline in her state of the union speech how this fits in our broader political strategy on energy. let me conclude by reaffirming my readiness to work closely with parliament on all these matters, and to continue our close dialogue with the itre committee.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for this timely and pertinent exchange. this confirms that a lot has already been done, both at national and eu level, but considering the current situation, much more effort is needed. let me emphasize once again the need for a rapid and coordinated european reply both in terms of short—term exceptional security measures and medium- or long—term adjustments to the market framework. the council will keep the situation on the energy markets under constant review. in this respect, we appreciate that the commission committed to follow up so swiftly on the ministerial discussions last week. we stand ready to examine swiftly the commission’s proposals, which commissioner simpson outlined here today. once again, let me assure you that the council’s bodies will discuss them swiftly in order to alleviate the pressure on consumers and industries. to this end – and as i said earlier – the next extraordinary energy council meeting will take place on 30 september. finding an agreement at eu level on the overall framework will allow member states to implement national measures in a more efficient way. at the same time, we won’t lose the long—term vision from our side. we remain committed to progress as much as possible with you on the fit for 55 files. whilst trilogues on several climate proposals have already started, from the energy side the council stands ready to start trilogues on the renewables directive and the energy efficiency directive as soon as possible. overall, the council will of course continue to follow the security of supply situation in the coming months, and will not hesitate to activate the new solidarity tools that were agreed this summer in case of emergency.
in writing. since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices. after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels. the disruptions in the supply of russian gas to the union confirm that gas is being used as a weapon. gas prices have a direct impact on electricity prices because part of the electricity is generated from natural gas. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this is affecting the purchasing power of eu consumers, especially the most vulnerable, as well as smes and industry. the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices. in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to put forward proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. in the face of market disruption, we must limit prices and reverse the unexpected benefits of this crisis on the citizens.
in writing. europe is facing an unprecedented energy crisis. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market. high energy prices are also driving inflation. prices for basic goods are rising, food, heating, transportation. many european citizens and businesses are unable to cope with this huge financial burden. so we need to take concrete action. the union has already taken the first steps. the council adopted a regulation on gas storage, which provided for maximum stocking capacity and the possibility for member states to share resources, and also rules to reduce the eu's gas demand by 15%. the commission also announced a solution. this includes the reduction of revenues for energy producers that do not use gas for production, such as companies producing energy from renewable sources, and thus produce energy at a much lower cost. their profits would be frozen at a certain level and the surplus from the sale of energy could be used to support those in the most difficult situation. another instrument would be a solidarity levy, which would in turn be levied on fossil fuel energy suppliers. these are good proposals, but we also need diversification of energy sources, new gas supply channels and alternative sources. in the current crisis, it is also important to make the most of the resources we already have, such as fully functional nuclear power plants.
in writing. citizens expect solutions from the union to overcome the energy crisis and for this reason, since the beginning of russia's aggression in ukraine and the energy crisis, the european parliament has been cooperative, has supported the measures put forward by the commission and has allowed them to be adopted as a matter of urgency. we will continue to do the same with the new solutions proposed by the commission, such as taxing energy companies with extraordinary profits, reducing consumption or capping prices, measures that can help to partially resolve the crisis. i still think the best measure would be to limit energy prices. it's very difficult to take this measure because it's actually an intervention in the market. however, at this point in time the market does not operate according to the traditional rules of a market economy. we are in a time of war and crisis, and temporary measures to support citizens are a priority. because the price of energy affects all other products, and even if a percentage of the price of energy goes back to the consumer of energy, from the rising prices of all other products, nothing goes back. limiting energy prices is the most effective solution to help citizens cope with inflation.
in writing. since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices. after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels. the disruptions in the supply of russian gas to the union confirm that gas is being used as a weapon. gas prices have a direct impact on electricity prices because part of the electricity is generated from natural gas. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this is affecting the purchasing power of eu consumers, especially the most vulnerable, as well as smes and industry. the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices. in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to put forward proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. in the face of market disruption, we must limit prices and reverse the unexpected benefits of this crisis on the citizens.
in writing. – it is wise to support measures, effective at european but also at local level, that strive to contain the high cost of living, starting with energy. the dominant impact of gas on the price of electricity must be decoupled. however, there should be a healthy respect for how market forces operate, especially at global level. measures must be calibrated together, at all levels of the energy spectrum through government action, private sector collaboration and coordination between member states. the model should be that of an economic war conducted to secure and maximise energy supplies while stabilising prices. simply relying on the canalisation and manipulation of market forces, plus consumer subsidies, has a high probability of not succeeding. meanwhile, there should be total transparency as to what is being done, price-wise and via governmental action. for obviously there will be a strong internal and external political backlash. temporary outright nationalisation cannot be sidelined by definition. to the contrary. capping of energy prices would have to happen across the board, not just for natural gas from russia. huge non-economic forces fuel the present inflation. market mechanisms alone cannot be the answer. we need measures that take this fully into account. are they present in what is being proposed?
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, i am honoured to present today the council position on the draft budget of the european union for the financial year 2023. let me start by saying that this is the year the preparation of the council position has not been business as usual. the current times are not ordinary at all. russia’s aggression against ukraine has shaken the geopolitical landscape we live in drastically. it impacts the lives of ukrainians, the future of the people that depend on the food and energy supply from ukraine and russia, and also of the citizens in our own countries. the long-term consequences of the war are still unpredictable, but the short-term impact we all experience – the need to help the ukraine, to care about the support to third countries and in our region, the all time high energy prices, the historical inflation levels and the fears of our people about their future. in this situation, we the budgetary authority, that’s the council as well as the european parliament, face an important challenge in our discussions on the budget for the next year – how to best use the available money in view of the significant new challenges and uncertainties that lie ahead. do we establish a budget for next year, assuming nothing is happening in the world? or do we have the courage to make choices, to reprioritise, to backroad some policies and reinforce others, and to create some margins in the budget to allow the union to act? we are waiting for the commission’s indication on how the eu budget could be used to face the new challenges. we all are waiting for the amending letter expected in early october and an indication from the commission to deal with the situation in ukraine. for the council, this incomplete budget proposal from the commission received in this particular context has led to a prudent and conditional position. we created margin to face the inevitable contingencies. if more is needed, we are ready to reprioritise and to look at our position again. but the council has already preserved all initiatives and programmes that are key for dealing with the current situation. let me be clear once more. we are living in unprecedented times and in a very complex and difficult geopolitical and economic environment. there is limited money available. the national economies are struggling and the bill is getting bigger. so we need to be smarter, more courageous than in normal times and consider carefully where the money should go. some people may say we want to keep what we have and new challenges should be financed with new money. such an approach ignores the economic reality. today, budgets at national level are also struggling to cope with this perfect storm with high inflation levels and an energy crisis. it is difficult to see how member states’ contributions to the eu budget would increase if the eu would not do what is done at the national level – reprioritise. having said this, the presidency will do its utmost to conclude a budget for next year that will take the eu forward, focusing on the main objectives of the union and on benefits of our citizens. dear vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, let me now go into more detail on the council’s position. we have worked on the commission’s proposal since it was presented on 7 june. i am pleased to say that, after careful reflection, the council has reached a well-balanced position that it adopted with unanimity on 6 september. the council position foresees amount of eur 183.95 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 165.74 billion in payment appropriations. they correspond respectively to 1.13% and 1.01% of the eu gross national income and ensure a quick and substantial progression of the main beneficiary programmes. several remarks on operational expenditure. for headings 1, 2b, 3, 4 and 5, while no changes are proposed to headings 2a and 6, the council proposes some adjustments in commitment appropriations to ensure sufficient margins to cover the financial needs to be addressed by the amending letter expected in the coming weeks, mainly regarding the ukraine crisis. and to guarantee an appropriate rebalancing and stabilisation of programmes, particularly those subject to top-ups by article 5 of the mff regulation, or receiving significant additional appropriations from the assigned revenues from next generation eu. in our proposal, we also suggest avoiding the use of article 15(3) of the financial regulation in 2023 and backload the amount that was established under mff agreement to the second part of the mff period. i would like to stress the fact that the large number of key programmes across all headings have been accepted at the level of the commission’s draft budget. this is the case, for instance, for programmes under economic, social and territorial cohesion and for agriculture, which represent the largest budget shares as well as for all external action instruments. as regards payment appropriations, most of the proposed savings are a consequence of reductions of non-differentiated appropriations and of a proportionate amount corresponding to the cuts on commitment appropriations. several remarks on administrative expenditure. let me start by saying that we are disappointed because the commission did not make any proposals in the draft budget 2023 to contain the expenditure of heading 7. as a result of the salary increase foreseen for 2022, the ceiling will be broken not only in 2023, but also in the following years. as a solution, the commission has proposed the use of the flexibility instrument under heading 7, but the council considers such instruments not to be appropriate for this purpose, as it is to be used for one of unforeseen and other bigger problems the union may be facing. moreover, as i pointed out in my introduction, the eu faces many new challenges, and the council considers that the little flexibility that exists in the mff should be reserved to deal with these issues. on this basis, the council has made the necessary adjustments to avoid the use of the flexibility instrument under heading 7. as an alternative, the council suggests reducing the institution’s budget by applying a horizontal approach with an increase of the standard abatement rate. the proposed adjustment corresponds in total to eur 62.5 million and fully replaces the use of the flexibility instrument. we have not applied this adjustment to the budget of the european parliament in line with the gentleman’s agreement. nevertheless, we expect in the upcoming negotiations also the european parliament will contribute to stabilising heading 7. this would alleviate the burden on all the others and ensure equal treatment. it’s a shared responsibility for all institutions to exercise self-restraint, especially within the context of high inflation rates. in particular, we call on the parliament to reconsider its proposal to increase its establishment plan. council is of the opinion that the first step to contain the expenditure under heading 7 is to respect stable staffing levels in units which are inevitable in all organisations should be compensated within the existing establishment plans. concerning decentralised agencies, we propose to adjust lines for non-salary-related expenditure for those agencies at cruising speed with an increase higher than 2%. however, we have been sensitive to current events and we didn’t propose any adjustments to decentralised agencies that received increases related to the ukrainian crisis or to covid response. agencies institutes of phasing in or with new tasks are not adjusted. several remarks on special instruments. the council proposes to maintain the appropriations entered in the draft budget 2023 for the solidarity and emergency aid reserve, the european globalisation adjustment fund and the brexit adjustment reserve. however, as already said, the council proposes not to use the flexibility instrument under heading 7. it’s also worth noting that four council statements are attached to our position. one concerning sufficient payment appropriations in the area of agriculture and cohesion. one on various elements not accounted for when establishing the council’s position. one on article 241 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu as regards the automatic salary update and one of the european parliament’s own section of the budget. the council will reassess its position once the commission presents all the missing elements in its letter of amendments to the draft budget, which is expected at the beginning of october. honourable members, let me conclude by saying that today’s debate i hope will mark the beginning of a series of constructive and open exchanges, which will allow us to reach a balanced and meaningful compromise on the budget for 2023. without deviating from our common goals, we need smart spending and we will have to prioritise and demonstrate our strong commitment to europe. it’s time for the budget authority to make tough choices with the limited resources at hand and the increasing needs. i am convinced that we will be able to find a common position within the agreed time frame.
member of the commission. – madam president, mr minister, honourable members of the european parliament. i would like to congratulate the czech presidency for reaching an agreement in the council on the draft budget and to thank mr georgiev in person for presenting it today. let me also make some remarks. it will not come as a surprise that my assessment is rather critical. i believe the commission’s proposal is well-balanced and respects the long-term budget. it also includes all the new elements known at the time, while leaving room for manoeuvre, both as regards margins and special instruments. we continue to deliver the union’s political priorities to stimulate the recovery and facilitate the green and digital transition, while always ensuring eu added value as well as capacity to finance new emerging needs. it’s true, the proposal has not yet addressed some of the challenges and uncertainties stemming from the unprecedented situation in europe. some of these elements will be reflected in the upcoming amending letter. understand that one of the main justifications for the council’s proposal is to make space for the upcoming amending letter. however, the proposed cut of the commitments by eur 1.6 billion is neither justified nor respects the priorities expressed by the council itself. in particular, heading one suffers disproportionate and excessive cuts. and i thought with the priority given to this heading by many member states, this would also hinder the implementation of new flagship initiatives such as the european chips act and the union secure connectivity programme. the very large cut, almost eur 200 million for eu for health, would undermine our efforts to boost the union’s preparedness and resilience to health related urgencies at a time when the coronavirus pandemic is still a reality. the council has proposed a cut of eur 45 million to the programme for environment and climate action, so-called ‘life’, which is dedicated to the green transition. this hot summer showed us that we need to do more for the green transition, but not less. under heading seven, the council has rejected the proposal to use the flexibility instrument to offset the impact of high inflation and soaring energy prices on the administrative expenditure of the institutions. it has proposed instead a cut to the same amount for all institutions except parliament. the high inflation has a direct effect on all institutions, and all institutions will need to make an effort. no institution should be penalised for high inflation, especially when respecting the principle of stable staffing and limited increase of non-salary expenditure. in this context, i would like to invite the parliament to examine the elements in its statement of estimates and very carefully consider synergies with other institutions, especially as regards cybersecurity. of course we continue to monitor the situation and will adjust downwards where possible if the most recent data allows. we also carefully considering the best way to support ukraine. the proposed second tranche of macro financial assistance to provide additional eur 5 billion to ukraine this autumn does not require additional appropriations. unfortunately, the war continues and the reconstruction process cannot start yet. but at this stage, i could only urge to be realistic about the scale and capacity of the eu budget. there is a clear need to coordinate this process with other international donors. we should bring the international community together to ensure that the financial support to the ukrainians is provided in a coordinated manner. but we have to be clear: the focus must be to provide the necessary financial support to ukraine, in particular for as long as they are in war. and unfortunately, i think it will not end this year. but we have to face the reality that this war will continue next year. so we have to find ways and means to cope with this demands and challenges and the necessary support to the ukraine and the ukrainian people. and of course, we have to continue with other support, including humanitarian aid. i hope that this state of play provides some clarity in times of uncertainty, even though in terms of amounts we are still in assessment mode. following the parliament’s reading, i will send you the usual executive ability letter, the commission’s assessment of the amendments proposed both by the council and the parliament just before the start of the conciliation. for my side, i will do my best together with my team to facilitate the process and reach a successful outcome on all budgetary files and, hopefully, again in due time. because in these troubled times, achieving a strong result in the conciliation will be a welcome sign of stability and certainty in the union’s ability to act and the reassurance to our own citizens.
rapporteur. – madam president, a war for values and principles, a war for freedom is at our borders. i hope you didn’t get used to it. this war has to be won, and the eu budget should come in support of our citizens and our friends who are fighting for their freedom. does democracy have a price ? yes, it has. the very high bills for energy and inflation are consequences of the unjust war that russia is leading in ukraine. but we can deal with this crisis together, not only with words, but with money. here in the house of europe, we will echo what president zelenskyy said: ‘without gas or without putin? without putin’. ‘without putin’ means more support from the eu budget, and each support means a faster victory. we are hearing some good news from ukraine on the counteroffensive. that means that our support actually matters. each euro will bring us closer to victory. now the council’s position on the eu budget is traditional in the most untraditional of times, in the most extraordinary of times. the council makes eur 1.6 billion in cuts overall from research, and even eur 200 million from health. as usual, the council cuts some priorities that are dear to the european parliament, but these are not usual times. i have to say, mr president, that margins should be created at the beginning of the process, not at the end. by reading the czech presidency’s position, i hope health and energy are important to you, just as they are important to us. what other crises do we need in addition to realise that these are not normal times? these are not times where we need to spare money for future years, but rather times where every cent should be spent to the benefit of our citizens. we also don’t want to choose which people we will be able to help: the ukrainian citizens, the refugees, the poor eu citizens who are the victims of the energy crisis and inflation. this is why, minister, my message is clear. we need an urgent revision of the mff to be able to help our citizens in these extraordinary hard times. this year we need to make do with everything we have got for the citizens. i give you an example of two important headings, very current ones: those dealing with refugees and with humanitarian aid, which are unfortunately empty. this is just not normal. the eu’s credibility is at stake. we have to help our smes. we have to help the health sector, we have to help the youth that has been very affected by the pandemic. we need to invest more in defence and military mobility, especially in these times. beyond money, we also need to understand the importance of schengen enlargement for romania, bulgaria and croatia this year. this doesn’t cost you anything, and it costs us a lot. this will ease military mobility, but also we can boost the european economy by billions. let’s think also in terms of economics in this. our friends from ukraine and moldova need our support right now. madam president, commissioner, as the general rapporteur, i don’t speak just for myself; i speak for all the shadows who are here in the room or the chair. i speak for parliament with one voice. we think that this year, more than in others, the eu budget is just too modest. ten years ago, the european union received a nobel peace prize for creating a space without war. but today, instead of celebrating peace, we have an unjust war at our borders. and yes, democracy has a price. peace has a price, too. and we need to spread peace and say it out loud: ‘peace, also with the support of the european union budget’.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i have no idea what the state of the eu is. to get rid of a gas supplier who is waging a brutal war of aggression putin , you have found one who is waging a brutal war of aggression aliyev. even if many german media are silent, the oil dictatorship, which you declared to be a trustworthy partner, is currently attacking democratic armenia. respect that choice. after all, our new best buddy azerbaijan is still far behind russia in terms of democracy, press and civil liberties. only in bribing corrupt cdu honks is aliyev in the lead. when you first took up your duties here, i thought you were merely incompetent and a bit of a criminal. by now i know you're also impressively moral. at the border, refugees are dying every day, fracking, gas and nuclear power are suddenly sustainable, and you routinely delete your text messages about the billions in payments to pfizer. i can't think of anything else about the eu except that we shouldn't leave europe to the laymen.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. ukraine continues to need our maximum possible support. madam president, you said: 'it is time to support, not for appeasement.' i can only support that. but the war is also affecting our citizens and businesses: high inflation, horrendous energy prices, households with no room for manoeuvre, firms cutting back on production, insolvencies are the order of the day. i think two things are necessary. first, in times of supply shortages, we need to ramp up everything in terms of capacity, in terms of resources. this is as true of our energy supply as it is of our food supply. secondly, we must relieve rather than burden, ladies and gentlemen. i heard there's a sme package. i say, "i hear the words, but i lack faith". i feel that the machinery in the commission is running unchecked, unbroken. business as usual is the order of the day. i look forward to the concrete proposals. when what is withdrawn? the aim must be to keep the value added here in europe and to prevent other regions of the world from profiting from the fact that there are wars in europe.
madam president, this is not another debate on the union. mrs von der leyen, the measures you have announced today and how we manage to implement them will largely determine the future of our common project. and we need, more than ever, courage, solidarity and resistance. and i congratulate you on the boldness of your proposals, which i hope will alleviate and reduce the impact that this perfect storm will have on european citizens during the coming winter. but we also know that this winter is not going to last four or five months, it's going to last much longer. and so we also need medium- and long-term solutions. solutions like building infrastructure that better connects us, that allows us to achieve that much-needed energy independence. solutions such as supporting a nuclear moratorium that will allow us to move towards green goals without asking for greater sacrifices from our citizens. we've asked enough of them. solutions that we should have made years ago and that can't wait any longer.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is good that we can talk about the state of europe today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i thought that after jean-claude juncker, things could only get better. but you are taught every day how bad politics can be made. it almost seems that a majority of the european nomenclature here deliberately wants to drive this continent to the wall, as politics is currently presented. i'll give you two examples. the first is the corona madness - i would almost say - where you have destroyed wealth with a continent-wide lockdown and lockdown policy, where you have produced unemployment and where you have produced bankruptcy and insolvency. and the latest: the madness of sanctions in the war between russia and ukraine, where instead of making efforts to bring about peace, money and arms are being sent and european citizens are being pushed into an emergency situation with an energy crisis, where they are being told: no more bathing, no more showering, no more heating. i can only hope that with the forthcoming european elections the majority will change so that europe will once again be on a path to create peace, freedom and prosperity - i conclude - for as many european citizens as possible.
madam president, madam president von der leyen, we welcome the concrete proposals you have made today, but we need to act together immediately. in the energy sector, for example, the measures you have proposed have been requested by the socialist group for several months. madam president, you cannot ask people to reduce their consumption if we allow the ttp market to continue to speculate. therefore, if we want to reduce the bills for citizens, we need to stop speculating in the gas market through spot contracts. and a second aspect is schengen. the union is incomplete, madam president. you stated that romania meets all the criteria for schengen accession. we need romania, bulgaria and croatia to join the schengen area, and i tell you that romania applies the schengen criteria every day to defend the eastern borders of the european union. i ask that all these statements be turned into reality so that romania is in schengen, alongside bulgaria and croatia.
madam president, in the last two years, europe has gone through several crises that it managed to partially or fully solve. the food crisis, however, due to its nature, is much more difficult to tackle. its effects are particularly devastating for the poorest and most vulnerable people, and even for our cohesion. we are dealing with a complex subject with impact on consumers, on farmers, but also on transporters, on industries, on trade, but also there is a geopolitical and strategic impact. the warning signs are already there. we see soaring food, energy and fertiliser prices, and we cannot afford to wait any longer to take action. let us not ignore the consequences and have a coherent plan that, together with my colleagues having experience in agri—food policy, we started working on it. but we need your support, madam president. the human tragedy for the war in ukraine must not be combined with another looming tragedy – a global food crisis. because when we are already in a food crisis, it is too late to act. it is too costly to act. so this is why we have to prevent this. and if we do not act now, the cost in social, economic and even security and geopolitical terms will become too high. so we call on you, madam president, to come up with a comprehensive agenda for global food and nutrition security, and we will be here to help. i heard today some ideas, some proposals. the commission already took some measures, but what we need is more than just supporting farmers. we need supporting farmers, but we need more for that because food security means more than just producing food.
madam president, your excellences, i come before you as the representative of one of the countries most attached to the values and the european family. out of solidarity and a real european spirit, romania helped the ukrainians and syrians fleeing the war. in the name of solidarity, trucks and trains loaded with grain from ukraine, which are to reach western countries, cross romania daily, and vice versa, trucks and trains with aid for the ukrainian people cross. in the name of solidarity, romania understands and accepts that countries that have more energy should reduce their consumption and give to those that have less. in the name of solidarity, but also of its right, romania is asking for what it deserves: accession to schengen, after 11 years of unfair waiting. what is the real state of the european union, with states that sit in the box and states that sit on the doorstep? romania meets all the conditions and secured the borders with its own money and not with romanian companies. where's the solidarity? there is a risk that the number of populists and extremists in romania will increase, precisely for this reason. does anyone risk that in 18 months' time, half of the meps will be eurosceptic? who wants another european people to give up on solidarity? (the president interrupted the speaker)... whose interests are they serving? the romanian people are not asking for favours, but for a dignified and legitimate status in a europe to whose stability and continuity they contribute every day. (president interrupts speaker)... we want justice for romania, we want in schengen, it is our right, madam president.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i would like to thank again the rapporteur for her excellent work, as well as other shadow rapporteurs and colleagues. together we worked very well in achieving this comprehensive, balanced and solidly documented report. across the main political groups we are united in our condemnation of the deliberate and systemic efforts of the hungarian government to undermine the founding values of the european union. and we clearly ask the council to take its responsibilities under article 7 seriously and finally act. what was the reaction of the authorities in hungary to our report? beyond the usual scapegoating of opposition meps and of so-called soros networks, on 19 july, fidesz parliamentarians pushed through a resolution asking for the abolition of the european parliament and a return to one composed of deputies appointed by member states. the text also asked for moving away from the objective of establishing an ever-closer union among european people. this is very, very worrying, and it shows a clear unwillingness to acknowledge well—founded criticism or to put an end to disregard for eu values. we see this again with the latest move to limit abortion rights on the eve of our debate. we must make full use of the conditionality regulation. we cannot allow the european citizens to finance this madness, nor the superiority of races, as mr orbán stated in romania. at the same time we should be creative, apply smart conditionality so that the hungarian citizens are not deprived of the benefits of the eu funds, because they are very important.
madam president, please. i read in the draft: the rights of persons belonging to minorities, including roma and jews, and protection against hate speech against minorities. anyone who hears this statement clearly thinks that the orbán government is anti-minority, anti-semitic and anti-roma. the only problem with that is it's not true. not so much that the rapporteur cannot substantiate his serious assertion, but that the subject was exclusively roma. of course, any discriminatory measure is to be condemned, but show me one eu member state where roma employment, social affairs, education and housing issues have been fully resolved. they won't find any, but there's no report of any other member states being dismissed. the truth is that hungary provides one of the most favourable legal frameworks in the eu on the issue of minorities. this is coming from the 13 national leaders of local governments that i spoke to personally about this. to say that hungary's nationalist policy is anti-minority is simply a lie. the alleged anti-semitism is not justified. it's no coincidence that the report doesn't mention any of this. on the other hand, recently, david lau, the chief rabbi of ashkenazi israel, thanked the hungarian government for its support in strengthening jewish communities around the world. at the beginning of the summer, the president of the union of jewish communities of ukraine, chief rabbi mayer tzvi stambler, wrote a letter thanking hungary for its help in receiving jewish refugees. i have only highlighted one point in the report, ladies and gentlemen, but it is clear from this that the text is seriously biased and not factual.
mr president, mr commissioner, i am honoured to address this rostrum of democracy to raise an alarm about media freedom in europe. although they are the pillar and the guarantor of a functioning democracy, too many journalists continue to be harassed, threatened including by politicians and public figures, and political interference in the media is a practice that already seems to be the norm, including in my country, which is absolutely unfortunate, and this interference of politics in the independence of the press has terrible consequences. our societies are radically polarized. the truth serves differently to each interested political party, let alone objective reality itself. ladies and gentlemen, we need more european and national support for investigative journalism and binding measures to protect journalists. our values, principles and rights are not a given that we can take for granted. we must be vigilant, constantly fighting to defend them. we cannot talk about the rule of law and democracy without a free journalism.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law cannot be considered selectively unless it is in line with the political aims of a particular party. is it a coincidence that on the day mr. boyko borisov was arrested, he publicly stated that he would support sending military equipment to ukraine? at the last, second instance, the bulgarian court ruled that the act of detention did not meet the standards of legality and involuntariness. who made that decision? it was a personal decision of the then prime minister kirill petkov, who gave instructions to the ministry of internal affairs, boyko rashkov for the arrest of his predecessor and brutally interfered with the name of the european prosecutor's office in this shameful act. petkov has thus tarnished the image of this new institution that we support in the fight against corruption, money laundering and fraud. two other people were illegally arrested, the former finance minister and the pr man of gerb. the same kirill petkov found himself in the scandalous situation as prime minister to witness before the police an oligarch who had escaped from the bulgarian justice in dubai, and that in his office as prime minister. petkov's government was pursuing the most pro-russian, pro-kremlin policy in bulgaria. we have not sent any weapons to ukraine, we have increased the financial flows to the budget of the russian federation three times compared to the same period last year. democracy requires us to condemn every act of political arbitrariness and repression, regardless of our political sympathies for someone or likes or dislikes. so i expect the commission, the council, all the political parties here, the greens, the socialists, the liberals to clearly condemn this act of unlawful arrest of anyone, in this case the leader of the largest opposition party in bulgaria. the fight against corruption is not a personal war against the opponent, but an effective judicial reform and practice that we at gerb propose and support. gerb is determined to reverse the negative effects of petkov's mismanagement and a company with a clear pro-european agenda, solidarity with ukraine, compensation for high energy prices, accelerated completion of infrastructure projects that were stopped by the petkov government.
mr president, commissioner reynders, this morning, in the debate on the state of the union, president ursula von der leyen confirmed and reaffirmed the union's commitment to its values, to the rule of law and its requirements, and to the fight against corruption, in which the creation of the european public prosecutor's office to investigate crimes of corruption, crimes of misappropriation, crimes of fraud, especially in the handling of european money and against the financial interests of the union, was a giant step of a larger scale. and all this is in line with the debate we have just had on the state of fundamental rights in the european union, which reminds us that we must distinguish between those states in which we have detected a clear risk of serious violation of the values of article 2 and those states in which, however, there may be indications of concern, but which do not manifest a general collapse in the credibility of the rule of law to account for matters deserving judicial protection. and i think this is the case. the european public prosecutor's office is investigating a corruption case in bulgaria, which has also been discussed in this european parliament. and i think the european public prosecutor's office deserves its time in the process to be able to give an account of that subject of investigation which has involved no less than, yes, the former prime minister of bulgaria and we have heard in this very house for several years. but it must be noted that bulgaria still shows signs of being able to account, in accordance with its own institutions, its system of appeals, with presumption of innocence, judicial protection and, where appropriate, judicial correction, for any abuse of power or arbitrariness that may be perpetrated against any citizen, whether the prime minister or not, so that we can be confident that the ongoing investigation, if it has committed any arbitrariness, any abuse, can be corrected in accordance with the bulgarian judicial system.
mr president, there must be a misunderstanding with the title of this debate. it sounds like some hero leader of the opposition was illegally arrested in some third country while fighting for democracy and human rights. we are talking about mr boyko borisov, former prime minister of bulgaria. this house adopted the resolution on 8 october 2020 on the rule of law and fundamental rights in bulgaria – some of the epp members voted for that resolution. i quote from it, ‘whereas in recent years, reports of the misuse of union funds in bulgaria have been proliferating; whereas in recent months, bulgarian citizens have witnessed a large number of high-level corruption allegations, some of which have directly involved the prime minister; whereas also in recent months, international media have repeatedly reported possible interconnections between criminal groups and public authorities in bulgaria; whereas these revelations have led to large demonstrations and civil society protests and have seen bulgarians call for justice, respect for the rule of law and an independent judiciary, and protest against erosion of democracy and endemic corruption’. mr borisov and his party were in power back then. is he the leader of the opposition mentioned in the title that you are turning into a hero before the elections? please think twice next time. double standards hurt us all. first and foremost, the people of bulgaria are hurt and disappointed. second, if you are pushing him and his gang of friends back to power again with this kind of debate, it’s again the people of bulgaria who deal with the consequences – all of us and the union. then we are back to writing resolutions again.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, it is in fact a sad occasion having to address you again on the situation of nicaragua only three months after the previous urgency debate. it is nevertheless necessary. over the summer, we witnessed further violations of human rights. the latest actions of the authorities in august, with the arbitrary closure of seven catholic radio stations and two more community radio/tv stations shortly after, together with the excessive police force to occupy the installations. all these stand testimony to the continued brutal repression the government continues to carry out against its own people, and in particular on those who dare to oppose the regime. the detention and treatment of bishop ronaldo álvarez and his fellow clergymen is also deeply troubling, and we are following developments very, very closely. this is yet another violation of freedom of expression and freedom of religion or belief. we stood by those affected in a statement on 4 august. the united nations office of the high commissioner for human rights has just released the hrc report on the human rights situation in nicaragua. in the words of this report, and i quote, the human rights situation has progressively deteriorated since 2018. end of quote. while 2022 saw further, and i quote, that the duration of the human rights situation in a context characterised by the absence of dialogue, the deepening of the political crisis, and the isolation of nicaragua from the international community. end of quote. this is the true legacy that mr ortega and ms murillo are leaving behind, setting back the country after decades of hard-fought development. but we are not fooled. we see the regime for its true colours, a brutal dictatorship. and so do nicaraguans themselves. support for the regime for the regime has fallen to an historical low. we maintain our demands for unconditional liberation of all political prisoners, immediate return of international human-rights bodies, and the nicaraguan people's efforts to re-establish democracy and the rule of law. in coordination with our partners, we imposed, already, restrictive measures on 21 individuals and three entities, including vice president murillo and the national police. their review process is underway. we will continue to ensure that nicaragua remains at the core of the international agenda, in particular the united nations. and we'll support the nicaraguan people who suffer under ortega's dictatorship and their legitimate search for a free country and a better future. we shall work with member states and with our international partners towards restoration of democracy and the rule of law in nicaragua. and we shall continue to insist on the respect of human rights.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday.
the s&d group has informed the president of the decisions to change the appointments of committees and delegations. these decisions will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting and will enter into force on the day they are notified to parliament.
the next item is the joint debate on regional policy, on the report by mrs constanze krehlin, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu: eighth cohesion report (2022/2032 ((ini)) (a9-0210/2022) and on the report by mr younous omarjee, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the eu border regions: pilot projects for european integration (2021/220 ((ini)) (a9-0222/2022).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the eighth cohesion report is the european parliament's first position on what the future european regional policy should look like after 2027. we are facing major challenges and much remains to be discussed in detail over the next two or even three years. we do not yet know how the present period of support will be implemented at all, because it has not really started yet. we do not yet know what challenges lie ahead with the ongoing war against ukraine. we don't know how to deal with the energy crisis and what we need to connect to it. we also do not know what new challenges will be. but we are on the way to activating cohesion policy in a truly modern way for the next funding period and we are making initial proposals. i have made these proposals as rapporteur. they have been adopted by the committee on regional development and will be debated tomorrow in the plenary. the point is that we are proposing that there should be a new a new just transition fund, which is part of the general regulation and which includes, for example, the partnership principle. it is intended to be broader than its predecessor and to be accessible to regions with industries in transition - not only coal regions, but also, for example, regions producing steel or aluminium, or other industries affected by them. secondly, the so-called middle income trap regions should be supported with additional funds from the european social fund so that they can be given a boost to break out of the stagnation and move forward. thirdly, rural development must be given a greater importance, going beyond the agricultural aspect. we therefore want to integrate the rural development fund more closely into structural policy. fourthly, the solidarity fund should be reformed and funds should also be made available for climate adaptation and for responding to crises caused by climate change. there is a huge need for action here. and fifth, we need to put climate change more at the centre of this, even more than we are doing now. and climate change and climate change adaptation should be clearly separated, so that it is really visible what can be done in which areas. but one thing must remain true: the european regional policy must be accessible to all, and we must make it modern and flexible, without forgetting the mandate given in the treaties, the mandate of cohesion policy for the cohesion of the regions. european regional policy must not be reduced to a reserve for emergencies, but must really fulfil its mission. we must take up this task in order to serve the citizens of europe and help them to support regional developments. let us not forget that we must also simplify. and that's a very important goal.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me warmly congratulate mrs constanze krehl on her excellent eighth report on european cohesion, which i am sure will be adopted by a large majority in the plenary tomorrow. as regards border regions, i am convinced that these regions, which cover 40% of the european territory - one in four europeans, almost 120 million europeans living on both sides of 40 internal land borders - express in their historical, geographical, economic and cultural reality what the european project really is, that they are called upon to play an increasingly important role and that they must be at the heart of all our concerns in the work we are now undertaking to think about the future of cohesion policy. in the time of the covid crisis, when we in europe were used to living in a space of total free movement, we became aware of the weight of the barriers that, suddenly, can again impose themselves on us with all the difficulties that this creates, especially for cross-border workers. but we also saw, in the time of the covid crisis, the strength of solidarity and the strength of cross-border health cooperation, which has saved lives. today, with russia's war of aggression in ukraine, the awareness of borders is re-emerging. and more than ever, we are aware that what we have managed to build in europe is absolutely extraordinary. a common space of rights, freedoms and movement for peace. the energy supply crisis, which is affecting all regions and particularly the border regions, must now call for a number of new proposals to be considered. and we must consider that crossborder energy projects of european interest are probably part of the solutions we must seek for our energy sovereignty. this seems to me to be a proposal for repowereu. the report i am submitting to you for your approval today therefore recalls the importance of these regions and the economic, social, legal, geographical and territorial challenges facing crossborder areas. commissioner, you are aware of our parliament's commitment to the european crossborder mechanism, which is intended to remove the legal obstacles that cause many difficulties for citizens: insufficient crossborder public transport, problems of access to employment, education, health, cultural services and leisure, to name just a few. this mechanism is now blocked by the council and, as i said in prague at the informal summit of cohesion ministers, we must relaunch the process. we have been able to bring parliament and the council closer together - i welcome the work of our colleague mr gozi - and we are now asking the commission to take the initiative. we expect the commission to implement the parliamentary initiatives of our regi committee, in accordance with the commitments made by the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen. we have adopted own-initiative reports overwhelmingly in plenary. we now expect the commission to translate them effectively.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members and especially to rapporteurs constanze krehl and younous omarjee, thank you very much for the high quality of both reports. in fact, the 8th cohesion report provides a comprehensive picture of the situation and evolution of social, economic and territorial cohesion. and the main conclusion is that cohesion policy works. and i can also conclude that it is more necessary than ever. thanks to cohesion investments in 2014-2020, we have extra growth in the less developed regions. the growth of those regions is expected to increase by up to 5% in terms of gdp per capita and the gap between the weakest and strongest regions is expected to be reduced by 3.5% by 2023. however, economic growth has been uneven and the recent multiple crises risk widening territorial disparities. in relation to the report, we agree along several of the conclusions that we reached. first, we agree, in fact, that cohesion policy remains paramount for the success of the european project. as you rightly note, the 8th cohesion report makes clear the challenges that we have to face, not only this growth challenge, convergence challenge, but framed by green and digital revolution and also by the demographic trends. secondly, looking forward, we are starting a joint reflection about the future of cohesion policy and how it can best address europe’s needs. i agree with you that cohesion policy must remain a long-term investment policy focused on the long-term needs and trends, and in particular looking at regions stuck in development traps. of course, a balance must be struck because as in the recent emergency situations, we had to tackle both long-term aspects together with a quick response to changing circumstances. and we don’t know what the future will bring, as you correctly mentioned in your presentation. the third point we converge on is the need to concentrate on the regions with the greatest needs. we talk about development traps, we talk about particular handicaps which are felt by outermost, mountainous, island and border regions. and nowhere is the value of european cooperation so evident as in european border regions. you rightly note that in your report, mr omarjee. interreg is at the heart of the european project, yet we have seen border regions’ vulnerabilities during crises and being attentive to their needs should be a horizontal consideration in all relevant european union instruments. i welcome parliament’s support for the european cross-border mechanism. we hope this instrument will find the institutional support it needs. meanwhile, we are not idle. the commission continues to address specific situations of cross-border regions as needs evolve, as most recently demonstrated with the programming adjustments to tackle the impact of the unjustified aggressions of russia and belarus, as well as specific references to border regions in the new single market emergency instrument. thank you very much, and we’ll continue our dialogue. i look forward to our discussion.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on agriculture and rural development. madam president, madam commissioner, i agree with you that cohesion policy is more necessary than ever, especially now, in times of crisis, economic transition, ecological transition, which also has a social impact. but i hope we can also move beyond this moment and the feeling that the cohesion fund is becoming de facto a kind of crisis fund that we only mobilise and channel resources when there are crises. beyond territorial cohesion, beyond the differences in development between geographical areas, i think it is important in the coming period to look more closely at rural-urban cohesion. it is a subject that should be covered by the cohesion funds and for this, better coordination between the cohesion fund and the rural development fund will again be required. we have had this coordination before and it has shown results and i also insist on better use of innovation tools, including social innovation; leader-type programmes that fund local projects and mobilise local initiatives, i think should be more present in the next programming period.
madam president, madam commissioner, during the covid crisis, the border regions wanted to cooperate more. they were unable to do so because of bureaucratic obstacles. in the face of natural disasters and the energy crisis, integration between border regions is necessary. they encounter too many obstacles. crossborder workers demand services at their workplace that local authorities cannot provide. president omarjee's report is a clear indication of this. the legislative solution, as we know, is on the council's table. it's called the european border mechanism, but the negotiations are deadlocked. we want to relaunch this dossier, taking into account the council's main concerns and in full cooperation with the commission. to this end, ladies and gentlemen, we must adopt a resolution on our own initiative, indicate the necessary legislative changes and promote a new agreement with the council. our europe is the europe of concrete, transnational solutions, solutions we want to multiply for our regions and for our citizens.
madam president, commissioner, this report on border regions, living laboratories of european integration, shows the interest of the european union in defining policies targeted at these specific territories, such as islands and cross-border regions. these regions are indeed living laboratories of european integration. if we were to compare the situation before we were in europe with the new situation after we joined the european union, it would undoubtedly be these border regions that would show the greatest changes in the lives of their citizens. this is due to a twofold effect: being on the margins of their member states, these regions were most often marginalised and lagging behind development. the advent of the single market and the opening up of new areas through the abolition of frontiers have been undeniable factors in their development. however, much remains to be done to exploit the full potential of these regions for europe. it is in border regions that cohesion and regional development policy will have the greatest scope for progress in the years ahead. to achieve this, the obstacles which still remain numerous and persistent must be removed: physical obstacles, because of connections which are still insufficient; administrative and legal obstacles, because public policies must be harmonized between regions which are geographically close but separated by national legislation. there are also language barriers which could often be easily removed by highlighting cross-border cultures and languages, often different from those of state capitals. i am thinking of alsace, where we are today, of corsica, where i live, which has the same linguistic and cultural basis as sardinia and the rest of italy, the basque country or catalonia, whose common language is a link over the pyrenees. all these assets must be revived and exploited with the help of the european union. at the frontiers of the member states there are therefore many areas where the construction of europe can be considerably developed. we must still provide them with the means to do so. that is what this report proposes and my group fully supports it.
madam president, i welcome these reports. however, the 8th report unfortunately reaffirms that my home region in ireland, the north and west, has for over a decade been stuck in a so-called development trap. the region has actually slipped in relative terms from being a developed region to a region in transition. it begs the question: in transition to what? the route out of this trap must be investment. as i speak, ireland is the only country that has had its plan for spending the recovery and resilience approved. yet, it has failed to apply for pre-financing grants or loans under the fund. unbearable regions like mine are crying out for investment. the closure of essential public services and banks compound this trapped status, and there’s no digital age without full, affordable broadband technology. such factors highlight the need for a plan, something sorely lacking – cohesion funding, state aid flexibility, a eur 1 000 000 000 rrf allocation, and the brexit fund offer a ready-made investment package if the political will and imagination to stand up for the north and west of ireland existed. unfortunately, it doesn’t with our government parties. for example, a western rail corridor accessible to knock airport, continuing ultimately to derry, would be a crucial link in an all-ireland railway, creating jobs and connectivity. infrastructural investment is the primary way to tackle regional imbalances, and that is why i will highlight the need for a real investment plan for the north and west regions of ireland.
madam president, in january 2021, france closed many border points, arguing prevention against terrorism and covid restrictions. one year and nine months later, the border at the col de banyuls in catalonia remains closed. some huge rocks are blocking the road. nine months ago, following our written question on the matter, the commission informed us of a dialogue with the government of france to open the border. furthermore, the court of justice has concluded that internal border controls by member states cannot exceed six months. today’s report emphasises the risk of underdevelopment in border regions and calls for more, not less, openness and cooperation. border closures separate families, friends and neighbours and thwart economic, cultural and political freedoms. it is ironic that decades after the freedom of movement was enshrined as the cornerstone of our union, spain and france remain unrelenting in their aim to separate catalans north and south of the border, trying to erase our language, our culture and our history, and literally setting rocks on the road to divide us. this is intolerable and must end. french authorities must open the border pass. (the speaker concluded in a non-official language)
madam president, madam commissioner, talking about regional policy, what comes to my mind are the lessons from the history that we have, because europe has a very strong history of border regions and borders. i’m happy that most of the internal borders of the union were turned into bridges, railways and roads that connect businesses, tourists and people in general. this is great. but still, there are some lessons to be learned. there are still internal borders between eu member states, which are keeping trucks waiting there for days, spending money, polluting the air and losing profit for their companies. there is an eastern solution for that. countries like croatia, romania and bulgaria should be included in the schengen area while they have been covering all the requirements for years until now. there is no explanation for that. talking about borders and regions, let’s talk about external border regions of the european union. we are suffering from high pressure on the external borders, especially in the country i know best, bulgaria, and recently we have had a big wave of illegal migration. we need the adoption and update of the multiannual financial framework in order to secure our borders – better-equipped personnel, better technical equipment on the borders to protect our families, our citizens and our cities. those people deserve a good night’s sleep and somebody who is taking care of them who is well-paid and well-motivated. in the very end, i would like to pay tribute to both bulgarian policemen who lost their lives chasing an illegal migrant bus crossing my country. i’m sure this parliament will learn the lessons from history and will not let this happen again.
madam president, cohesion policy has been the fabric of the european union throughout its history. it has served to correct, to mitigate the differences in this union of at least two speeds with a war at our doorstep, a major energy crisis and the climate crisis that is increasingly hitting us; now, more than ever, is the time to strengthen these policies. strengthen the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the different regions, in line with the political priorities of the european union. the recent volcanic catastrophe in la palma teaches us that we must strengthen and modernise the solidarity fund. we must work together to ensure that all the regions of europe progress at the same pace. it is necessary to continue co-financing, as has been done up to now, taking into account each of the three categories described. we must not forget the large pockets and very underdeveloped areas that exist in regions classified as more developed and which receive very little funding and very little attention. the elimination of differences between countries and regions and the pursuit of homogeneous growth are the founding principles of the european union. and this is the spirit which must guide us towards a europe which is less and less unequal and therefore more democratic.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, dear constanze, thank you for this report and thank you for the work of these years. we are here to discuss the future of cohesion policy, direct access to finance for cities, gdp which can no longer be the only indicator, the revision of the stability and growth pact, and we should here firmly declare to the commission and the council that cohesion policy is fundamental to the energy transition of our regions and our municipalities. and above all, cohesion funds are not an emergency tool. but there's a but. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. just fund fossil fuels, regasifiers and who knows what else. the principle of not causing significant damage is one that should not be suspended. and then, no territorial restrictions on the use of these resources, the heart of the principle of convergence and hence of regional policy? and so on, with transfers and with waivers. from emergency to emergency, we're asked to be accomplices. but we can 't be . we greens cannot be complicit in the destruction of regional policy.
madam president, the negotiating process for the use of funds by the states, particularly for cohesion policies, is experiencing visible and significant delays, with implications for the necessary and rapid mobilisation and implementation to finance investments that will allow each state to respond to its development strategies. it should be remembered that these funds have never compensated for the damage that the integration process has caused in various areas, exacerbating asymmetries and inequalities, making portugal more dependent. the commission is now suggesting, in the wake of the energy crisis, that member states mobilise resources already insufficient for cohesion to finance repowereu, diverting funds to serve the interests of large economic groups. the blanket is short and they want to keep it that way to keep the stick on the states. a cohesion policy reinforced in its funds without conditionalities, with higher rates of participation, with greater flexibility in management procedures and closer technical assistance instruments, are some of the conditions for it to be able to help to counteract this divergence.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i come from eastern belgium, a border region in the heart of europe. i have already spoken at this point many times about the difficulties people face when they live and work on the one hand and on the other. two examples: special rules for cross-border workers were reached during the covid pandemic to allow them to telecommute in their country of residence. however, these special rules have now been abolished as regards the tax treatment by the member states. the home office, however, has become a part of everyday life in many companies. the commission, we need a solution, and we need it urgently. otherwise, many people from the border regions will again be disadvantaged on our european labour market. the second example concerns the border regions mechanism, which allows border regions to apply the legislation of a member state to a very specific project. this would greatly simplify many crossborder projects. in the case of emergency operations at the border, there are still difficulties in getting the nearest ambulance or hospital if it is on the other side of the border. this can result in the loss of valuable time. the so-called border region mechanism could make all this much easier and more effective. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. we need that mechanism. we expect the member states to finally move forward and negotiate in the interests of the many border regions in europe. and last but not least, i would like to say a personal word on behalf of our group: a very warm thank you to mrs constanze krehl for her many years of excellent cooperation. and five words: thank you very much and do well!
madam president, commissioner, cohesion policy has indeed been crucial in promoting convergence within europe. and yet many regions are lagging behind, with our rural areas clearly in the lead. union policies and actions, combined with national and regional ones, are, as has been said here so many times, key to enabling rural european citizens to meet the challenges of demographic loss, lack of access to basic services, lack of quality employment opportunities, climate pressures, reduced connectivity and limited access to innovation. i have already repeatedly welcomed the strategy, not the strategy, but the long-term vision for rural areas. but i always remind you, and i take this opportunity to say it again, that this vision must be transformed into a genuine european rural strategy, to be fully integrated into future programming periods and accompanied by national rural strategies. it is imperative to demonstrate to all regions and all our citizens that the european union is there to support them. only in this way can we really promote the true spirit of european solidarity. let me just say one last word of enormous gratitude and appreciation to the great woman who is our constanze krehl, and she knows well how much we hold her extraordinary work in this house in our hearts.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policies are designed to bring the less developed regions up to european welfare standards. these funds are made available to member states that have yet to recover in the area of infrastructure, social services and education and, as the statistics and the situation on the ground show, are extremely beneficial for the regions and states that want to recover. it is important, however, that in addition to development funds, these countries and regions should have the know-how and technical support to develop real, applied and specific development strategies for their regions. the flexibility of the cohesion funds is also a necessary element, taking into account the realities of recent years, so that regional and local authorities can adapt, can develop projects according to the challenges they face. and now, finally, i would also like to thank you, mrs krehl, for the 31 years in which you have shown that commitment in this house every day, and for the last three years in which we have worked very well together in the regi-ausschuss.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. you mentioned the need to support the euroregions. what concrete measures do you think need to be implemented to support these euroregions?
mr president, we voted today to adapt the energy efficiency directive to the ambitious targets set out in the 'fit for 55' package. in the context of the crisis caused by the colossal increase in prices, we must ensure that energy is no longer wasted in outdated buildings that are not adapted to current requirements. europe needs massive funding to renovate its housing stock. this renovation is absolutely necessary for consumers who are burdened by ever-increasing bills. we also need to ensure that new buildings meet the highest energy efficiency standards, because only then will the eu's measures have a real impact. we also have a duty to combat energy waste, to combat energy poverty and to fight with all our might to achieve the climate goals we have set ourselves.
mr president, the european commission, including through the pnrr packages, has proposed measures to effectively tackle the energy crisis we are all going through, so that we can be well into the winter. what is the romanian government doing with these energy infrastructure investment opportunities? how does he exploit the opportunity to provide the romanians with a decent winter on european money? where does the country's project for energy independence and self-sufficiency lead? the photovoltaic panel installation program is stagnating. vulnerable consumers remain uncovered, bills continue to rise. when will we learn to be efficient, to do our duty to romanian citizens? that is the question i have asked myself after voting for this directive.
mr president, europe is at a turning point and in a green, energy, digital and social transition. it is time to integrate all these ambitions into the daily lives of europeans, and the normalisation of these changes must be done also through culture and the arts. culture contributes significantly to the dynamism of a society, allowing us to live better together, to build democratic and free societies, to regain a sense of common identity and belonging. moreover, culture is a strategic sector in which continuous investment is required, as it makes an important contribution to strengthening the economy and to employment. only through culture and social activities can we firmly counter the extremism and extreme polarization that our societies are currently facing.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteurs. it is a very important subject for us in the context we are in and i think it is essential that the 2014 regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations be reformed. we need a comprehensive legal framework that ensures the highest standards of operation and funding of political families in the european union, and the most important aspect i want to highlight is transparency, because we are seeing, it is no longer news, that our democracy is being attacked through political intermediaries by those who want to shake european democracy, and putin is an expert in this. it supports extremist parties, it encourages anti-european movements and we need mechanisms to protect our political identity, democracy, freedoms and values which are the foundation for our european project going forward. and i am absolutely convinced that both ukraine, moldova and georgia, which have suffered because there has been this permanent interference, will be part of the european project and need these mechanisms that we are working on now.
madam president, please. european industry is in a serious crisis. factories shut down, small businesses in peril, jobs disappearing. the reason is clear: the wrong response to the war, namely, the fall in energy prices due to the sanctions imposed by brussels. the policy of sanctions has reached a dead end. to avoid disaster, the first thing we need now is to lift the sanctions. in addition, brussels must provide urgent financial and technical support to industrial enterprises. the commission should also consider suspending the continuous increase in green targets for the duration of the crisis. finally, the ets tax on corporate carbon emissions should be suspended. your honour, our task is no less than to protect european industry from collapse. the report before us is a step in the right direction, and i suggest we support it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr tom berendsen, for his excellent report on the industrial strategy for europe, and above all for the clear statement in the report that what we need to do is to preserve value creation in europe. our whole industrial policy must be geared to safeguarding jobs here on the ground. he was right to say - and i would like to emphasize two things in my brief speech - that we must first of all take account of the dramatic impact of the russian war of aggression on european industry in what we can do now at european level. and i can only say: the most important thing is that we relieve our companies and our companies, relieve, relieve, get away from a lot of the bureaucratic burdens that companies have to shoulder at the moment. our factories are struggling to survive, bankruptcies are commonplace, production is being curtailed. we must alleviate where we can and we must support, also with a view to reducing electricity taxes, the horrendous prices, which are also there in terms of the procurement of raw materials, in terms of energy supply. that must be the order of the day. i welcome the commission's announcement yesterday that it will also work towards making us more resilient and diversifying in the european union. that must be the aim of our foreign policy, that we should also organise access to rare resources here. that is our task in the european union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this report by parliament - and i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs who have worked on it - contains many good points which the commission must take up in a timely and convincing manner. these are indications which are very well connected with all the industrial policy content which president von der leyen set out yesterday. what seems to me important, also in view of the experience of the past years, when the commission was struggling to find a way forward in industrial policy, is that we should try to do something very integrated today, something very connected between the different parts, otherwise we will make many good sectoral policies - that is the commission's risk today - but we will not see the synergy effects that can be achieved. i'm just giving very brief examples. if we're going to have a very advanced sustainability and climate change policy, we need to have a coherent industrial policy: the panels, the batteries, and everything else that's needed to make that policy work. if we are to innovate, we must do so in the interests of our industrial policy objectives: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. finally, the subject of commercial policy, as has been said, but also that of competition: if we are to attract significant investment from outside europe, i am thinking of chips, etc., we must not have competition which still follows the old ideas of competition policy. so synergy and timeliness!
madam president, the european union needs a strong industry, it is vital for our economy and i was pleased, commissioner jourová, to hear yesterday in the speech of the president of the european commission, mrs ursula von der leyen, that we can expect much stronger support for this sector which has contributed to europe's prestige in the world. of course, we need to make major changes so that the way we produce doesn't add to pollution and even, where possible, soaks up greenhouse gases from the air. our industry must be open to innovation and research must be supported very seriously and consistently. at the same time, we need to support europe's traditional industries, to give them the help they need to adapt to new demands. and there are no few of these demands. in our effort to reach net zero emissions, we must have industry and all european citizens on our side. at the same time, we must ensure that we do not impose restrictions on european industry that will make it unperforming and uncompetitive on the world market. the european union needs high-performing, green and competitive industry.
grazie, onorevole bartolo. dear colleagues, as announced in an email last week, let me once again inform you that there is a dedicated crew that will now start to film with a view to updating the panoramic video screens at the parliamentariums in all our capital cities. apart from the filming of this opening of the session they will also be filming on tuesday, tomorrow, from noon until one, during the vote – it’s a short voting session so try to be there on time – and then on wednesday during the key debate from 9 to 10 o’clock in the morning. just also to remind and to confirm that there will be no voice recording and the specific content of the debates will not be part of the film, but your attendance would be appreciated.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sitting of 15 september 2022 are available. are there any comments? that not being the case, the minutes are approved.
following the election of jessica stegrud as a member of the swedish parliament, parliament takes note of the fact that her seat fell vacant on 26 september 2022, in accordance with the rules of procedure. following the resignation of bettina vollath, parliament takes note of the fact that her seat will be vacant from 10 october 2022, in accordance with the rules of procedure. we will inform the national authorities concerned. the competent authorities of spain have informed me that eva maria poptcheva has been elected member of the european parliament to replace luis garicano with effect from 15 september 2022. the competent authorities of sweden have informed me that carina ohlsson has been elected member of the european parliament to replace jytte guteland with effect from 26 september 2022. the competent authorities of germany have informed me that matthias ecke has been elected member of the european parliament to replace constanze krehl with effect from 3 october 2022. i would like to welcome these new colleagues and to point out that they sit in parliament and in its bodies in full enjoyment of their rights provided for by the rules of procedure.
i have received from the s&d, renew europe and ecr groups decisions modifying the nominations to committees and delegations. those decisions will be listed in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of the announcement.
i would like to inform you that, since the adjournment of parliament’s session on 15 september, i have signed, together with the president of the council, one act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. the title of the act will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 29 september 2022, pursuant to rule 157, has been distributed. i would like to inform you that i have received one request for urgent procedure from the tran committee pursuant to rule 163 on ‘slot utilisation rules at union airports: temporary relief’. the vote on this request will be taken tomorrow and, if adopted, the vote will be held on thursday. monday we now move to the changes requested by political groups. for today, monday, the ecr group has asked that council and commission statements on ‘the protection of children and families: sexual safeguards for minors’ be added as the sixth item in the afternoon, before the short presentations. the debate would be wound up with a resolution, to be voted on thursday. i give the floor to ms de la pisa carrión to move the request on behalf of the ecr group.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, we ask for the inclusion on the agenda of a debate without a resolution following the infamous statements by the spanish minister for equality, irene montero, on the sexual relations of children with adults based on consent. a child? what are we talking about? we need a serious debate in this parliament on respect for the innocence of children, which is unfortunately being stalked today by ideological policies with concepts that a child is not yet able to assume; that harm him, injuring the normal development of his personality. your right to know about sexuality at the right age should come from the hands of those who truly know you, who are your parents and not those who want to corrupt you.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the truth is that the extreme right wing which is proposing this point is given absolutely equal rights for children and families. in fact, his party recently voted in the spanish parliament against the investigation of cases of paedophilia within the church. the only thing that interests the far right is to continue spreading their bullshit against women, feminism, the lgbtqi community and also against sex education. i therefore call for a vote against this proposal so that the far right will stop using this parliament as a mouthpiece for their hatreds and lies.
(parliament rejected the ecr group’s request) tuesday
for tuesday, the ecr and s&d groups have asked that a statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in burkina faso following the coup d’état be added as the fifth item in the afternoon. the ecr group has requested that the debate be wound up with a resolution to be voted on in october ii. the s&d group has requested that the item be added to the agenda without a resolution.
thank you, ms kanko. mr marques, i ask you to move the request on behalf of your group.
thank you, mr marques. so i’ll first put to the vote the request to add the item to the agenda, and then if carried, i will put to the vote the request to wind up the debate with a resolution to be voted in october ii. (parliament agreed to both requests) wednesday on wednesday, the s&d and renew europe groups have asked that the commission statement on institutional racism in the eu and the breach of fundamental rights of eu citizens, scheduled as the last item in the afternoon, be replaced by an oral question on the dutch childcare benefit scandal, institutional racism and algorithms.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i think it should be said that thousands of lives were ruined by the dutch tax authorities due to institutional racism, known as the ‘child care benefit scandal’. and not even all victims have been accounted for. but at the moment, they estimate that 26, people were hurt and families were destroyed. and it took years to uncover the truth. and now the epp, with their friends on the right, is again trying to bury this scandal. and i ask for support to keep the original debates about the oral question instead of the newly proposed commission statement. i think we should shed light on the truth and not try to bury it. and therefore, pursuant to rule 158, the s&d group would like to replace the commission statement ‘institutional racism in the eu and the breach of fundamental rights of eu citizens’, wednesday evening - last item, with the oral question on the dutch child care benefits scandal, institutional racism and algorithms.
(parliament agreed to the request by the s&d and renew europe groups) president. – with that the agenda is adopted and the order of business is thus established.
the next item is the joint debate on:– the report by joanna kopcińska, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 851/2004 establishing a european centre for disease prevention and control (com(2020)0726 – c9-0366/2020 – 2020/0320(cod)) (a9-0253/2021), and– the report by véronique trillet-lenoir, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on serious cross-border threats to health and repealing decision no 1082/2013/eu (com(2020)0727 – c9-0367/2020 – 2020/0322(cod)).
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to start by expressing my great appreciation to this house for your support in turning the european health union proposals from ambition into reality. this strong european health union, for many of us, has been a vision that we have shared. in november 2020, we presented that ambition – a set of proposals to build a strong european health union and to make the european union better prepared to prevent, to prepare for and to respond to cross-border health threats. in less than two years, we’re gathered here for the final steps in the adoption on serious cross-border threats to health and the regulation extending the mandate of the ecdc. both serve as very important building blocks for our european health union. both fit neatly together with the other important pieces of legislation for the new european health security framework. thanks to our joint work, we will extend the european centre for disease control and prevention’s mandate. what will this actually mean? a stronger ecdc will be able to issue recommendations to member states regarding health—threat preparedness. it will be able to host a new network of excellence of eu reference laboratories and to establish an eu health task force for rapid health interventions in the event of a major outbreak. as we have all witnessed, the ecdc has been essential in making sense of and in managing this pandemic. with a stronger focus, we will be better prepared for the future. the new regulation on cross-border threats paves the way for a stronger eu role in preventing, preparing and managing health threats. you have been instrumental in delivering on citizen expectations for more eu in the area of health, something that we also heard consistently in the conference on the future of europe. parliament has fought hard to have some key elements included in this package, and i need to extend my thanks especially to the rapporteurs, honourable members ms kopcińska and ms trillet-lenoir, and their whole teams for this. we have worked together tirelessly to get here today. you have each played your part in securing the provisions on joint procurement of medical countermeasures; you supported the inclusion of the one—health approach, and you made sure that prevention featured alongside response and preparedness activities. with your support, we made sure that member states will have to report on stocks of critical medical countermeasures. they should take account of the union preparedness plan when updating their national plans. the ecdc is empowered to access those national plans periodically, on top of periodic reporting to member states. meanwhile, the eu’s health security committee will be reconvened at senior level and will be able to issue recommendations and opinions. with parliament’s new observer status secured, i am pleased to say that this committee is even stronger. i must mention that the commission does still have some institutional concerns on both texts and will be issuing statements on these accordingly. in ending, honourable members, this debate gives me the opportunity to really thank you again for your support to bring this package today and to work towards its adoption. and as we move into the implementation phase, we’ll be taking further important steps together to turn this into a reality – because this can only mean better results for our citizens and this is what they rightfully expect from us. commission statement on ‘serious cross-border threats to health’ – serious cross-border threats to health and repealing decision no 1082/2013/eu (regulation) – trillet-lenoir report – 2020/0322 (cod), si(2022) 65/2 the commission welcomes the overall agreement reached by the co-legislators on the proposal for a regulation on serious cross-border threats to health. this new regulation provides for a strong health security framework in the eu and will strengthen eu-level protection, prevention, preparedness and response against cross-border health challenges. the commission regrets that the agreed text does not fully align the regulation with the principle of one commission and singles out one specific internal commission service, whereas the regulation will be implemented by the commission (including other commission departments) and other actors. therefore, the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the provisions that refer to a specific commission internal service is without prejudice to any future legislative texts. moreover, the commission also regrets that the co-legislators agreed to include a review clause, which includes an assessment of the need to establish the european health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera) as a distinct entity from the commission. such an assessment goes beyond the scope of the regulation and should remain within the commission’s remit as hera is a commission service. moreover, it duplicates the assessment that is to be carried out under the council regulation on a framework of measures for ensuring the supply of crisis-relevant medical countermeasures in the event of a public health emergency at union level. commission statement on ‘reinforcement of the mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control’ – amending regulation (ec) no 851/2004 establishing a european centre for disease prevention and control – kopcińska report – 2020/0320 (cod), si(2021) 334 the commission welcomes the overall agreement reached by the co-legislators on the proposal for a regulation on the extension of the mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control. the new regulation will reinforce the capacity of the centre to support the eu and its member states in the prevention and control of communicable disease threats and improve european preparedness for future health challenges. the commission regrets that the agreed text does not fully align the regulation with the principles of the common approach on the eu decentralised agencies, as regards the voting regime of the management board concerning the rules governing the languages of the centre. therefore the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the language regime of the agency is without prejudice to any future legislative texts. the commission remains convinced of the benefits of following all aspects of the common approach in relation to decentralised agencies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to do everything possible to protect the lives of our citizens and to provide them with the best possible health conditions. to do that, coordination and sharing are needed. to do that, we urgently need a health union, a health union that has proven joint procurement and research for vaccines and that has allowed vaccines for everyone at a cheaper price. this coordination is also needed in the area of research, where more can be done, in the area of cancer. we have always advocated a european plan for the prevention and treatment of cancer. in addition, crossborder care is obviously essential, as is the possibility that a test which is carried out in one country can be used in another country. this means efficiency and it means saving resources. beyond all of the things i've talked about here, we need to work together to catch up on what we've missed in the pandemic. for example, a country like mine, portugal, has had an excessive mortality rate this year, compared with the european union average, which is well above the union average.
on behalf of the renew group. commissioner, dear véronique, how long are we going to be second-class patients? what is it like to be sick and know, for example, that in belgium you have immediate access, and in romania you don't even have a free hospital bed? no needles, no soap or toilet paper! sometimes you have to buy your medicine from the hospital, bring it home. my sibians want a new hospital so badly, they've already made plans, feasibility studies, everything. they just need the money to build it. let's send the promised health money where it's needed most. we've been through two difficult years of the pandemic together, and europe has been able to be together, and the european centre for disease prevention and control has been a real shield for life and health. but the agency needs us to move forward. it needs money, it needs resources, it needs people. now is the time to help her. we cannot continue to have some europeans have and others do not, some live and others die for days. we want equality now, we want european health now!
in writing. the adoption of the european aquaculture report is an important step in helping this strategic sector. the text shall be balanced and reflect the current situation of the sector and its development potential. underestimated, european aquaculture has a key role to play in ensuring eu food security. medium and long-term solutions are needed to enable aquaculture to contribute to the objectives of the green deal and to achieve food security for the continent. let's not forget that the eu is a big importer of fish and seafood from areas that do not apply the same quality and food safety standards as europe. in contrast, european aquaculture can provide quality products, help reduce dependence on imports from third countries and is able to create more jobs. aquaculture is very important in many areas of europe, including romania, helping to revitalise rural areas and keep young people in the countryside. but let's not forget the problems facing european aquaculture: poor funding, lack of labour and, above all, the cormorant problem, which is creating irreparable damage to the sector. this requires rapid, concrete measures and, above all, financial support for this sector.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the eu’s actions in the field of freedom of religion or belief worldwide (2022/2861(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, i am pleased to discuss with you the eu sanctions in the field of freedom of religion or belief worldwide. the eu is committed to respecting, protecting and fulfilling human rights in all areas of its external action. the freedom of religion and belief is a fundamental human right. it affects everyone. all persons have the right to manifest their religion or belief without fear of intimidation, discrimination, violence or attack. protection must also apply to people who do not profess any religion or belief. the freedom of religion and belief is intimately connected to the realisation of other rights and values, including democracy, the rule of law, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, and respect for international law. the council has closely followed both persistent and new challenges facing the realisation of the freedom of religion and belief worldwide. the council is well aware of the scope of freedom of belief violations that involves persecution, not mere intolerance of hundreds of millions of people around the world. allow me to mention three recent issues. first, especially in times of crisis, we often witness the rise of unjustified restrictions to human rights, including on the freedom of religion or belief. the council recently highlighted that the covid—19 pandemic has had a severe impact on the exercise of fundamental rights, including the freedom of religion or belief. as the council stressed at the beginning of 2022, any restrictions to human rights in the context of the covid—19 pandemic must be strictly necessary, proportionate, temporary in nature, and non-discriminatory. second, as we meet today, the international community is assembling at the human rights council’s 51st regular session in geneva. the eu remains a firm supporter of the un human rights system, including the human rights council. several of the issues recently highlighted by the eu and its member states as requiring the human rights council’s urgent attention concern also the freedom of religion or belief, notably in respect of the human rights situation in russia, afghanistan, china, eritrea, myanmar and nicaragua, among others. third, for many people around the world, religion and belief are a source of meaning, community and hope. in contrast, the growing number of violent conflicts across the world undermine the bonds that can support common efforts to address global problems such as climate change, the respect for all human rights, as well as the implementation of the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development. russia’s continuing war of aggression against ukraine has highlighted the need to ensure the protection of religious heritage sites and places of worship, especially when groups of people gathered in these places face threats. unesco recently reported that more than 70 religious buildings have been damaged in fighting in ukraine this year alone. these are just some of the challenges we face as we continue to work together to further strengthen the freedom of religion and belief worldwide. i trust that the european parliament and the council will continue this work together. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the european commission is committed to ensuring respect for freedom of thought, conscience and religion. these are fundamental rights protected under article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the commission is also committed to fighting discrimination, racism and all forms of intolerance, including when linked to religion, and we make use of all means available under the treaties to further that aim. eu law tackles different forms and manifestations of racism and intolerance, including hate crime and hate speech based on religion. the commission is actively respecting these rights, observing these principles and promoting their application, in accordance with its powers and respecting the limits of the powers of the union as conferred on it in the treaties (article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union). the commission has in past years launched several infringement cases against member states that have not transposed them into national law. in order to put into effect in the member states the principle of equal treatment, the employment equality directive lays down a general framework for combating discrimination, including on grounds of religion or belief in the area of employment and occupation. the commission carefully monitors that it is respected. the commission also promotes intercultural dialogue, including inter—religious dialogue, in its support for more inclusive societies for migrants and eu nationals with migrant backgrounds, in line with the action plan on integration and inclusion. in this context, the commission is committed to protecting all member states’ religious groups from intimidation, discrimination, violence or attack, as well as from persecution within the eu. on 5 october 2021, the commission adopted the eu strategy on combating anti—semitism and fostering jewish life. with anti-semitism on the rise in europe and beyond, the strategy sets out a series of measures articulated around three pillars: to prevent all forms of anti-semitism; protect and foster jewish life; and promote research, education and holocaust remembrance. freedom of religion or belief is also an essential feature in our external human rights policy. the line with all our partners across the world is clear. we consistently condemn discrimination, intolerance, violence and persecution against or by any person based on the grounds of religion or belief. we call on all countries to protect the right for everyone to have or not have a religion or belief, to manifest or to change their religion or belief, while condemning the criminalisation of apostasy and the abuse of blasphemy laws. we take a public stance condemning attacks against places of worship and against persecution and discrimination against people of all faiths, as well as non-believers. the eu also strongly condemns violence perpetrated in the name of religion, in particular violence against women or against lgbt persons. over the past year, we carried out key actions to promote and protect freedom of religion and beliefs. we raised our concerns in more than one third of the 60 human rights dialogues that we hold with partner countries. we also issue high—level statements and promote interfaith dialogue. we also promote and defend freedom of religion or belief in multilateral fora, where we support the mandate of the united nations special rapporteur and yearly resolutions in the relevant united nations human rights fora. the eu has also taken several initiatives to foster freedom of religion and belief at local level, including involving civil society actors, faith-based organisations, humanists, atheists and religious actors. the implementation of the eu guidelines on freedom of religion and belief remains a key priority of the eu’s external action. we are also providing concrete support to freedom of religion or belief through the eu’s human rights and civil society programmes. the commission must act within its competence when addressing violations of freedom of religion or belief, while being mindful that the main responsibility lies with the eu member states on this matter. but our objective is clear. there is no place for intolerance, intimidation, discrimination, attacks, persecution or violence in the name of religion or belief in the european union and member states or in any other partner country.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. commissioner, minister, i have to go. we're talking about one of the most serious issues of all, one of the most basic human rights. and of course we welcome the information on what action is being taken by both the european commission and the council. but we feel that much of it is declarations, not necessarily concrete action. as members of the european parliament, we have repeatedly asked for reports to be widely disseminated and for information to be given on reports that are being prepared on violations of religious freedom. we have repeatedly said that the european union should take account of the violations of religious freedom in bilateral relations and that this should be reflected in the foreign policy of the foreign services. we have been waiting for several years for information on the special envoy for religious freedom and we hope that in the coming days we will learn not only who this envoy will be but what happened that for several years this envoy could not be appointed. i would like to say in conclusion that if we want to be a model for the whole of the european union and for the whole world, we should also take care of religious freedom within the union. the situation in the union is becoming more and more complex and i also call on the commission and the council to pay attention to the issue of religious freedom in the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner dalli, if there is one point of interest for the group i represent, the socialist group, in this debate on freedom of religion or belief worldwide and the action of the european union, it is precisely that it reminds us that freedom of religion, belief and thought is a fundamental right enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union not only for european citizens but for all persons to whom european law applies, and that there is no better corollary to freedom of religion than the freedom not to believe, not to profess any belief and, of course, not to be obliged to confess it, as well as religious pluralism. to serve that objective, the european parliament and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs have supported an instrument for democracy and human rights which specifically promotes interreligious dialogue and cooperation with religious communities, with the ultimate aim of specifically ensuring the separation of public powers with respect for any interference with religious practice and freedom of religion. we therefore support a european fund, a european instrument for human rights, to promote interreligious dialogue and cooperation with religious communities and the freedom of religion that is the corollary of religious pluralism in the european union.
on behalf of the renew group. madam vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of religion or belief has been recognised as a fundamental human right. it is important that the european union upholds and fights for this right, all the more so as we have seen increasingly serious violations in recent years. the right to have a religion comes with an obligation to recognize and respect the right of others not to have the same beliefs. it is unacceptable that in the 21st century a young woman is killed for religious reasons or that women are repeatedly abused because they belong to religious minorities. it is unacceptable that a writer lives under the threat of death for criticizing a particular religion or that a teacher is killed just for showing students images of religious figures. whether these events are happening in the east, in the united states, or at home in the european union, it is important that we use all the means at our disposal to defend the right to have our own beliefs, which are ultimately private to each of us.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr nienass, for his excellent cooperation. dear colleagues, now is the time to use all possible means to support ukrainians who are fleeing the war, women and children of ukrainians who are living temporarily in our country. the european union is mobilizing in an absolutely impressive way. the following is the list of municipalities in the province of maramureș, in the cantons of suceava and tulcea. they show that the european spirit is still at a very ridiculous level, despite the clear and continuing anti-european propaganda of putin and russia. there is no need for individual effort. we have to find resources, but we also have to make sure that they get to the people who need care. we need to help ngos and local authorities to become involved in the management and integration of refugees. in the rules of application, in discussions with each member state, it is important to prioritise projects to integrate and minimise the financial autonomy of refugees, as they are able to provide the minimum assurance needed for a decent living and are not dependent exclusively on their own or on public authorities.
madam president, the council has announced a package of measures to say it is holding back energy prices. these measures, unsurprisingly, are far from being necessary, and they ignore the effects of sanctions which have aggravated existing problems. they are temporary, limited in scope and do not touch the markets which must be defended at all costs. the commission is proposing a laughable minimum tax on corporate profits, which are so obscene that the european commission is calling them superprofits, so that some can continue to accumulate wealth at the expense of the people's impoverishment. what is needed is to intervene in price formation, to set maximum prices for electricity, gas and fuel, to regulate the market, to regain public control of the energy sector. measures that require others to restore purchasing power, combat impoverishment, raise the minimum wage, raise wages and social benefits above inflation, control the prices of essential goods, tax profits seriously, substantially, and revert to investment in public services and domestic production. here are some ideas, commissioner, to solve the concrete problems facing the peoples of the world today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wholeheartedly support the courage and heroism of the iranian women who are fighting to free themselves from the veil that is a prison. they risk their lives every day, and we in europe, where the veil is not just a garment, it is the political instrument of radical islam which subjugates women, the veil is not in keeping with our european way of life, our ideal of freedom based on the principle of equality between men and women which we defend, i cannot accept this permanent proselytism which is being carried out by the european commission through its communication campaigns towards our young people, this islamist entrism which is gangrenous to our institutions. i ask the commission to launch an internal investigation to unmask those responsible for the repeated production of genuine propaganda for the veil.
madam president, it is a fact that the european union has been built through its crises, uniting in its diversity, and nothing expresses this better than insularity, the island regions in which no less than 20 million europeans live. the 60 island regions are the outermost regions, the only ones whose names are enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. in some of them, tourism is the main actor. this is the case in the canary islands, the region from which i come, where tourism accounts for 33% of gdp and more than 36% of employment. the canaries are reinventing themselves, after the pandemic and the war in ukraine, to relaunch with a european convention of tourist islands that will take place in december, aiming at the spanish presidency of the second half of 2023, with the idea of incorporating blue economy, green economy, but, above all, innovation and digitalization to mark the message of overcoming and public-private cooperation. it deserves the full support of the european institutions and of this parliament.
madam president, we are talking about energy crisis thinking and looking for solutions to reduce our dependence on russian gas. these are all real concerns at european level. there are topics we debate all the time here. well, all of these are extremely important issues also at the local level, where some of our fellow mayors, local councillors, local politicians are in direct contact with citizens and hear their concerns on a daily basis. but it's incredible how mayors who find innovative solutions, like my colleague clotilde armand, the mayor of sector 1 bucharest, to create green energy, entrepreneurs who come up with new ways to produce renewable energy locally, get into little political disputes. dear colleagues who are so vocal here at the european parliament, convince your colleagues at home that the good of the people comes first, that projects that solve the energy and pollution solution at the same time must be supported, no matter what political group or party they come from. otherwise, everything we do here is just pure demagoguery.
madam president, i want to bring up an important subject. it is clear that we are all focusing on the energy crisis at this time and trying to help the european citizens. we have recently adopted the european directive on the establishment of a european minimum wage, and this is an important step, because we need to align wages at european level on sound criteria relating to economic performance. but i want to raise another issue that i think is extremely important, especially when we have hundreds of millions of citizens who need support, and in times of crisis, vulnerable people need help. i think it's time to talk about the european minimum pension. we have millions of citizens who are living extremely critical lives, lives full of deprivation, and we, at european level, need to establish this european minimum pension. in my country we have 5 million pensioners and many of them have a pension of only 200 euros and i think it is important that the european minimum pension should also benefit european citizens who do not live in europe, because they are citizens of the european union. we need this debate.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. dear colleagues! 250 million euros a year in savings for consumers, 11,000 tonnes less electrical waste for the environment. these are the real, tangible benefits that the introduction of the universal charger legislation will bring. the universal charger also means convenience, as it will help europeans to get rid of the tangled cables in their drawers, which are difficult to find. the universal charger is also a choice, because it is up to the consumer to decide whether to buy a new electronic device with or without a charger. i am also pleased that, given the fact that the technology is widely available, by autumn 2024 european consumers will be able to charge their newly purchased mobile phones, cameras, tablets, headphones and many other devices via one universal usb-c port, regardless of the brand of the device. and importantly, it will charge at the same rate with any compatible charger. i do not hide the fact that i am always particularly proud when we propose solutions in this chamber that make the daily lives of europeans easier in a tangible and concrete way, as is the case with this directive. the rapporteur, all the members and the staff of the european commission, and all those who have worked on this, deserve our sincere thanks and congratulations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the german chancellor olaf scholz said in his speech in prague: when we talk about the supply of raw materials, we think in particular of the countries of origin far away from europe. the raw materials are already here in europe, in cables and connectors, as they are on the table here with my colleague alex. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'closed loop' to cover the whole of the eu. he spoke of a strategic update of the internal market. that's what the uniform charger is all about. let us give away all these surplus cables for recycling so that they can be returned to the internal market as valuable raw materials. this shows how good policy works for our internal market: no misunderstood competition, leaving everything to the market, but setting clear guidelines. we need uniform standards and rules for all that are sustainable because consistently focused on the recycling of necessary raw materials.
madam executive vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, mr saliba, the rapporteur, shared chargers have long since become a necessity, not just a consumer desire. we all ended up having a lot of cables at home, each with a different type of muzzle for each device. or we need a charger at the office and can't find one that fits. the arguments for and against have been going on for more than 10 years and even if not everyone agrees with these one-off chargers, the market is already moving in this direction, with around 40% of the machines sold in the european single market having the same type of charger. this legislation has given priority to consumer interests without excluding the possibility of innovation in this area. however, we will need to keep an eye on the market to ensure that european standards keep pace with innovation in this area. i am convinced that a permanent dialogue can be maintained between the european commission, the responsible agencies and the producers, so that innovation and consumer interests can be respected. this is one of those technical files that has a major beneficial impact for every consumer, and everyone understands what we did today and what we're going to vote on this week. therefore, we need to support this amendment to the radio equipment directive and also to constantly seek to update it.
madam vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is home to a very large number of people with disabilities who live and work in the european union. in romania alone, in my country, there are some 800 000 people, and many of these people have talents, special abilities and can contribute in different ways to the progress of society: whether they practice different sports, they are teachers, some of them are also in politics, whether they organize large-scale events or run successful companies. there are many models of resilience, of engagement, both professionally and socially. it is therefore natural to ensure that the european single market is open to them, that the rules of accessibility and inclusion are respected, and that they can enjoy the same privileges as any entrepreneur in the european union. however, an accessibility centre will only be of real help if it is known and accessible to all people with disabilities in all 27 member states. so i would like to stress that it is absolutely necessary to disseminate information effectively and that people should be encouraged to use the services of this centre, no matter where in europe they live and work.
madam president, i would like to thank the i welcome this report, which aims to help the 87 million people of the european union to overcome the common everyday obstacles that we healthy people often take for granted. the establishment of the centre will have the challenging task of sufficiently mobilising and linking practitioners with the individual national authorities responsible for the implementation of european accessibility policies. however, it is often not just the lack of expertise, but above all the lack of political will that makes it difficult to address the problems of this group of people. but the disability of citizens does not mean any less value to society, it does not diminish the value of the human being. our aim must be to help improve their quality and their ability to participate fully in society. i am therefore pleased that the report also takes into account the conditions of the labour market and that the report on the digital decade, which i worked on specifically, also includes the conditions of people with disabilities. new technologies can be a great tool and aids for the development and application of this group of people. ladies and gentlemen, let's help people with disabilities have equal opportunities. i also want to encourage the active involvement of the national authorities, because without their active and open cooperation this will not work. i will be happy to assist in this implementation process at all levels.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner dalli, in recent years the european union has tried to invest a lot in creating, through new legislation and good practice, an accessible ecosystem which would allow all citizens, regardless of whether they have a disability or not, to live their lives and to enjoy their interpersonal and social relationships with the greatest possible degree of freedom and independence. transport, services, workplaces, websites, procurement, the built environment: all tailored to the needs of each individual. unfortunately, this effort has not been adequate so far. there is a lack of coordination and coherence of measures and actions, and a lack of a universal approach to the design of public and private interventions. the establishment of the european centre 'accessibleeu' is a small step in this direction, as indicated by the european union's disability strategy. a place of research, expertise, knowledge and exchange, a valuable resource for national and local authorities who want to design with the universal approach, but need guides for the technical aspects. let's not waste this opportunity to create inclusion and move forward in that direction.
a uachtaráin, commissioner, about 90 million persons in the eu have some form of disability; 50% of persons with disabilities are in employment compared to 75% without disabilities. although major advances have been achieved in favour of people with disabilities, often these citizens are still faced with significant barriers to full participation in their communities. efforts must continue if we are to achieve a more inclusive, fairer europe, including access to employment and the rights of people with disabilities. member states have been lagging behind for years when it comes to implementing eu legal texts on inclusivity. with the new eu centre for accessibility, we would hopefully have an effective tool in coherently implementing accessibility in the eu. i call on the commission to guarantee adequate financial and human resources to ensure the effective operation of the centre. let’s make the world a more inclusive place. it is time to raise the living standards of european citizens, especially those who are currently represented. and, finally, a shout out to the social farming initiative in my own constituency. the farmers involved are generously leading by example, by giving people with disabilities the chance to work on their farms. initiatives like this should be encouraged and replicated all over the eu and in all aspects of human engagement.
madam president, we have long stated in various resolutions and reports that accessibility is fundamental and necessary for the full participation of people with disabilities in all areas of life. we have subsequently translated this concept into several legislative proposals, including the directive on the accessibility of goods and services. however, the implementation of this legislation is not always timely and effective and, despite many efforts, persons with disabilities still face obstacles in their daily lives. we lack accurate data, trained experts, but sometimes also the will to find innovative solutions. this is why i welcome the plans to establish a european accessibility centre to bridge these gaps. i hope that this centre will create a space for member states to cooperate with experts as well as with representatives of people with disabilities. it shall provide the necessary guidance and allow for the exchange of best practices. accessibility in all areas of life is key to the full life of more than 87 million people with disabilities in the european union. let's make it a reality at last.
madam president, more than 87 million people in our union have some form of disability and they still face considerable barriers in accessing too many areas of life. accessibility is an essential precondition for everyone to enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms. therefore, the aim of the european union must be to identify and to overcome all gaps and inconsistencies in the current legislation and standards, and to create an accessible environment for all. in this regard, i am looking forward to the upcoming commission initiative related to rules for applying for the disability card in order to facilitate mobility of persons with disabilities within the internal market. creating the accessibleeu centre is the right step in the right direction, but we also must make sure that each member state will correctly implement the existing and forthcoming accessibility requirements in order to overcome existing and possible further fragmentations in the single market. to achieve our goal we need appropriate financing and also the provision of the adequate human resources, and it is also important to establish inclusive national accessibility hubs to facilitate the coordination among relevant stakeholders. madam president, we can be proud of this parliament that in many, many committees we highlight the promotion of the rights of people with disabilities.
madam president, following the adoption by this parliament and the community institutions of rules establishing an ecosystem to promote accessibility and integration of people with disabilities, the adoption of the european disability strategy, which gave a mandate for the creation of this eu accessibility centre, took place. this is another step towards inclusion and equality. community rules on accessibility are not harmonised and therefore there was a need for coherence and organisation in this area. when we talk about accessibility, we talk about a culture of equality, we talk about full participation, but not just in the digital world and the transport world, but at all levels: in education, in work, in health, in all aspects of life. it is very important to live up to the values we preach and that is why the creation of this centre is of fundamental importance. today is a historic day because it means that there will be dialogue, that there will be participation, that there will be equality, and, above all, that there will be human rights.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about people, almost 80 million people in the european union, who have a disability of some kind. almost 30% of them, commissioner, are living below the poverty line. sure, we have a disability strategy for 2030, but people need facts. i represent here in the european parliament the humanist party from my country and we understand that we need deeds, not words. yes, we need to help member states where they have no human resources, they have no budget to create these conditions for people with disabilities and we need to have this centre and i congratulate the rapporteur on what she has presented here. i think we all need to be supportive, to get to the bottom of things, because we need more empathy on our side. yesterday in strasbourg i saw a person on an electric bicycle run over a person with a white cane. i think we all need to be more empathetic, but we need a coherence in the european union, a real integration of these people and to listen to them, because no one knows better than these people's associations what obstacles they have and how they can be removed. personally, i work in my country with disability associations, but we need consistency across the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for all their valuable opinions and recommendations. we, of course, agree on many of them, and i believe that we are able to take a lot of them into account when shaping the accessibleeu initiative. next year, we should focus on the actual roll—out of the initiative. i am convinced that accessibleeu will help us achieve a more accessible and inclusive europe for persons with disabilities. in spite of all this, i would say, of course, there is still a lot that needs to be done. there are still barriers for persons with disabilities which block them from participating fully in society as we have heard, the reality of poverty, the reality of employment, there is so much which still needs to be done. and i would say that we will not have the union of equality which we are striving for until every case of every person with a disability is addressed.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place today, tuesday, 4 october 2022. (the sitting was suspended at 11.28 a.m.) written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
i have to say, madam president, i just wanted to let you know that i'm working with the right voting card, but obviously it seems to be coded in such a way that i'm in conflict with my colleague monica semedo of the liberals here. i don't want her or me to get in trouble for voting wrong. but i'd like to see it on the record, too. so i couldn't vote correctly today, i voted with a plus everywhere.
thank you, vice—president. we will look into this.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission regrets that the original dates foreseen in the proposal for the government-to-government exchanges were not retained by the co-legislators. this will reduce the capacity of the union to deliver on its commitments under the green deal for the management of ozone-depleting substances and control and reduction of fluorinated greenhouse gases to prevent climate-relevant emissions. however, given the significant impact on customs of major current and past events, the commission understands that member states are facing great pressure. at the same time, the commission acknowledges that some member states are already interconnected to the eu customs single window certificate exchange system, and some have asked for the possibility to interconnect before 2025. therefore, notwithstanding the deadlines listed in the annex, the commission strongly encourages all member states to take all the necessary steps to interconnect as soon as possible.
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was briefly suspended)
the next item is the debate on two oral questions on the situation of roma people living in settlements in the eu (2022/2662(rsp)):– the oral question to the council on the situation of roma people living in the eu by dragoş pîslaru, miriam lexmann, milan brglez, lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, romeo franz, elżbieta rafalska, eugenia rodríguez palop, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000022/2022 – b9—0018/2022); and– the oral question to the commission on the situation of roma people living in the eu by dragoş pîslaru, miriam lexmann, milan brglez, lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, romeo franz, elżbieta rafalska, eugenia rodríguez palop, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000023/2022 – b9—0019/2022).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, may i begin by thanking you for placing this important topic on the parliament’s agenda once again. roma inclusion policy is an area in which, over the years, we have seen excellent cooperation – and indeed a broad consensus between the parliament, the council and the commission. the subject of roma inclusion is especially important to the czech presidency. i am proud to recall the council conclusions on roma inclusion that were adopted during the first czech presidency in 2009. we all agree that the difficult situation of roma living in marginalised settlements is a matter of grave concern and something that demands urgent action. deep poverty, substandard housing, lack of basic services such as clean water, electricity and internet access – these are some of the impossible challenges still faced by segregated roma communities. to change this deplorable situation, a joint effort is needed, both at the eu and national level. i recall the recommendation on roma equality, inclusion and participation that the council adopted last year. it is the latest and most important of a series of policy commitments that we have developed over the past decade and a half. but the to—do list is still long. let me start with measures to ensure equal access to adequate desegregated housing and essential services. in the 21st century, everyone must have access to tap water, clean drinking water, adequate sanitation, waste collection services, electricity, gas, transport and digital communications. adequate housing is a basic human need essential for health and social inclusion. concrete plans should be drawn up by the member states to end segregation and to tackle housing issues with the involvement of local communities and roma themselves. integrated housing schemes, a vital prerequisite for social inclusion, should be promoted, for instance by means of micro-loans, saving schemes and construction training. you rightly draw a link between segregation and anti-gypsyism. in a context of rising populism, we must focus on combating and preventing all forms of discrimination, including racism against roma, which is a root cause of exclusion. here, i am also glad to recall the union legislation and measures prohibiting discrimination and incitement to violence and hatred that the council has already put in place. monitoring progress is an essential part of roma inclusion policy. by next june, the member states will notify the commission of measures taken in accordance with the recent council recommendation, and they will report to the commission every other year, including on progress made. the council has also called for full public disclosure of national reports on roma. finally, we have asked the fundamental rights agency to carry out a regular roma survey every four years. as you rightly stressed in the motion for a resolution, the principle of equality should, of course, also be reflected in the eu funding. indeed, one of the policy objectives of the european social fund plus is a more social and inclusive europe. it includes a specific objective for funding the socio—economic integration of marginalised people such as roma. vulnerable groups and marginalised communities, including roma, are also explicitly mentioned as target groups that should benefit from the european child guarantee and the recovery and resilience facility. the council believes that the member states should make full use of available instruments and funds relevant for preventing and combating discrimination of the roma, including in the context of their national recovery and resilience plans. money is not everything, though. i can only echo your views regarding the importance of the participation of civil society. many ngos active in this field play crucial roles, including as a bridge between roma communities and the rest of the society, as a source of expertise and funding and as agents of positive change and support at the grassroots level. therefore, cooperation with civil society should underpin our work on every aspect of roma inclusion, from policy design to policy implementation. member states should continue their efforts to build broader alliances involving civil society, businesses and industry, academia and research. the european roma platform, established in 2009 and strongly supported by the council during the previous czech council presidency, offers a valuable structure for this vital dialogue and cooperation with civil society stakeholders. let me finish with the most important. life chances are already defined during the first years of childhood. therefore, particular attention must be paid to preventing and combating child poverty. above all – and this is the heart of the matter – we must ensure that roma children have access to education. in order to flourish at school, children need quality early childhood education and care. i’m therefore happy to inform you that the council has already begun work on the new commission proposal for a new recommendation in this area, which we hope to see adopted before the end of the czech presidency. so thank you once more for this debate and thank you especially for placing so much emphasis on children. no one chooses to be excluded – whether they were born 50 years ago or whether they are a child being born today.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i want to thank ms nicholosonová for this and i want to start by confirming her testimonies because i saw with my own eyes two weeks ago what ms nicholosonová was recounting here today to this parliament. roma are europe’s largest ethnic minority, with a population of 10 to 12 million. of these, more than 6 million live here in the eu. they continue to suffer from extreme poverty, prejudice, exclusion, systemic discrimination, structural racism and anti-gypsyism in all areas of life. the commission condemns this. we address these issues through a comprehensive approach using all available legal policy and financial instruments. we tackle discrimination and anti-gypsyism through both the eu—roma strategic framework for equality, inclusion and participation and the anti-racism action plan, as well as by enforcing the existing eu legislation in place, such as the racial equality directive and the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. too many of the roma communities throughout europe are found at the fringes of society, living marginally and often in completely segregated settlements. only a few days ago i visited different parts of slovakia and could, as i already said, witness that such environments virtually exclude any prospects for a dignified life. overcoming this spiral of exclusion and poverty is particularly difficult, and it requires concerted efforts through an integrated approach, adequate funding, genuine roma participation, and, very importantly, political will. this is exactly the goal of the eu strategic framework, which the commission adopted in october of 2020. building on the lessons from previous actions, this reformed and strengthened framework sets out a comprehensive three—pillar approach for equality, inclusion and participation until 2030. it introduces a stronger focus on the fight against discrimination and anti-gypsyism and fosters roma participation. this pillar of approach is essential to achieving more and faster progress and to ensuring effective equal access for roma to quality, inclusive mainstream services, as well as education, employment, health and housing. unlike its predecessor, this framework includes headline targets for 2030 and the proposed portfolio of indicators to monitor progress. this has been complemented with the council recommendation on roma equality, inclusion and participation that was adopted unanimously in march of 2021 to guide member states’ national measures. national roma strategic frameworks are essential to achieve the objectives which member states were requested to develop, adopt and implement, following a common but differentiated approach which acknowledges the diversity of national situations and specific circumstances. the commission is assessing these national frameworks and will publish its stocktaking by the end of this year. as of 2023, member states will report on the implementation of their national frameworks every two years. these reports would be made public in order to increase transparency and promote policy learning. the european union agency for fundamental rights will continue to provide tailored support to member states in their efforts to develop indicators according to their needs based on census, administrative and survey data, to facilitate better monitoring processes at national level and increase accountability. to support the implementation of the eu—roma framework and the council recommendation, the commission calls on member states to mobilise significant resources to address the situation of roma people living in settlements and to ensure their socio—economic integration. similarly, considering the challenges facing marginalised roma communities in terms of access to basic services, the european regional development fund contributes to improving their living conditions and development prospects through measures such as building or extending mainstream non—segregating educational facilities and non—segregated social housing, as well as ensuring accessible busing, in complementarity with the esf+ actions. i will ensure that the commission monitors implementation at national level and publishes regular reports on the progress achieved.
for the ppe group. madam president, we saw how roma live in settlements during the official visit of the european parliament to slovakia. anyone who knows anything about the reality of roma communities knows that it is absolutely necessary to find solutions to problems that have been building up for decades. it is no secret that even in the 21st century, settlements are without drinking water, sanitation, or prospects for employment or a decent life. my effort as shadow rapporteur was to achieve a balanced text that would reflect the many unfulfilled objectives and expectations of the policy of helping marginalised roma communities. at the same time, we must also take into account the challenges faced by many cities and municipalities and local authorities in implementing projects and solutions. because there are successful projects. that is why i proposed and insisted that this report include a proposal for towns and municipalities to use funds not only to improve the situation of roma living in settlements, but also of the wider community. this includes zero co-financing of projects that will enable cities and towns as a whole and all their citizens to progress and develop. last but not least, we must remove the structural and bureaucratic obstacles that prevent them from properly using the funds and discouraging them from implementing the projects that are so necessary.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, on behalf of the employment and social affairs committee, i would like to congratulate all my colleagues for the work done in supporting roma minority rights, including the relentless efforts of our rapporteur today, lucia nicholsonová. we have done an official mission to see those settlements. we have seen them with our own eyes; we have heard plenty of testimonials. we know that the situation is really unacceptable. we have a strategy, we have frameworks, we have recommendations, we even have money. the council representative said that the council believes that member states should make full use of eu resources, and it is good that the council believes that, but the member states do not make full use of resources. money is not flowing where it should. we have recommendations related to the child guarantee and how this should be implemented, but the latest statistics show that one in two roma children aged four to six doesn’t have access to education. the situation concerning housing and health conditions, and proper nutrition, access to jobs – all these are part of the resolution that we are going to vote on in parliament tomorrow. this is a clear message that just relying on recommending member states to do things is not the right way to go forward. this has two important aspects. one is related to liberties and rights, and for that, the commission should go with infringement over infringement over infringement, and to go with having direct responsibility of mayors and state officials for this situation. it’s unacceptable to have modern slavery and to have children that have that problem today. and of course, the other part is investment. this is an investment in the european future. just allowing the opportunity there and breaking the vicious cycle is the way to go forward.
mr president, i am extremely horrified how the iranian regime hunts down these brave iranian women and men. but at the same time i’m proud, very proud, and proud of every single woman standing up for her rights, standing up for the rights of her sisters and daughters. and i’m proud of the many men supporting women’s rights openly. it is essential that all women around the world know that they are valuable, that they have rights. and these brave women in iran are the reasons why these rigid structures begin to change. so we, as politicians from other parts of the world, have to show the iranian government that we will not accept their crimes against their own citizens, not accept their crimes against these brave women. so rest in power, mahsa amini.
mr president, mr vice-president and high representative, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we must express our condolences to the family and friends of mahsa amini. unfortunately, she was murdered by the iranian regime. it should be stressed that this is not an isolated case. and we should also ask ourselves whether we have done everything to condemn, repudiate and prevent these cases from happening. the iranian people want freedom, they want the rule of law, they are fighting for democracy. our duty is, or should be, to help always, because, as i said, there are thousands of iranians who have been murdered, who have been tortured by this regime. the european commission must therefore do everything possible, not just to condemn, but to take concrete action, such as sanctions or restrictive measures, as the high representative has said.
mr. president, mahsa amini, 22, a young iranian woman who showed too much hair under her veil. reason enough for his arrest by the police of morality, police of prevention of vice and promotion of virtue. the name is a scandal. hours later, amini was in a coma and three days later she died in the hospital. a wave of protests has unfolded around the world, leading to the loss of lives in iran and also to hundreds of arrests and injuries. iran's security forces have responded in a very violent way and there are restrictions on communications. the officers there have the power to stop any woman and examine her clothing, examine the locks of hair she has in sight, the length of her pants or coat, or even the amount of makeup. the punishment may be arrest, flogging, a fine or imprisonment. that, not to mention the multitude of absolutely demeaning civil laws. how is it possible that the morale of an entire country depends on whether or not a piece of cloth slips accidentally over a woman's head? the world is watching. when a rape is committed against a woman, it is an attack on all of us. woman, life and freedom.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the protests of women and young people have spread throughout iran. hundreds have been killed because they want to live in a free, democratic country and have the freedom to live their lives without having to answer to the regime of the ayatollahs. the fundamentalist regime continues to fail its people in a constant and brutal way. instead of listening to the voices of reform, they have once again opted for repression, brutality and the death of their citizens. instead of listening to the mothers and daughters of iran, the regime chose to censor their voices, shutting down the internet across the country and persecuting them. it is our duty to shed light on what is happening to the people of iran. ladies and gentlemen, i ask you: can a regime that does not listen to or respect its own people be trusted? is he a legitimate actor to negotiate with? this parliament has constantly asked that agreements with one or another country not be negotiated because of the lack of respect for human rights. but we are negotiating in the european union with a fundamentalist and dictatorial state, such as the ayatollah regime. no more negotiations with the ayatollah regime.
mr president, dear colleagues, current demonstrations in iran following the death of mahsa amini have been going on for almost 20 days now. these protests, which have spread to all iranian provinces, have been brutally repressed by the iranian regime and so far led to 400 deaths and many injuries of people, including college and university students. in reality, the number of deaths could be much higher. i am also very concerned about the fate of more than 20 thousand detainees where there is no guarantee that their fundamental rights are respected. this reminds me of the brutal suppression of the protests in november 2019. we all know that the iranian regime is responding with severe brutality but despite this, the iranian people are still on the streets. so i do believe that the european union should act now and call on president raisi to stop the push back against the protesters immediately and free the political prisoners. people in iran deserve freedom and respect of basic human rights.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! so, after the brutal murder of lady amini, the iranian people have awakened again. not the first time, last time in 2019. but this time, women are at the forefront of the movement, and the protests promise change. but even then, years ago, and even today, the iranian regime uses every means, violence, to prevent the rebels from achieving democracy and freedom. but what i'm happy about today, tonight, is that the whole european parliament is quite united - one voice in support of the iranian opposition in its fight for democracy and freedom. and that's good. but what europe needs now is for all european institutions to be more efficient. we haven't been for years. we have taken a rather moderate approach against a regime that has grown stronger in that time, has become, in fact, a nuclear power, and is also a threat to the region as a whole. i want to emphasize again that you are... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the mullahs – religious fundamentalists – killed mahsa amini and the regime’s repressive nature is now killing dozens of protesters, many of them women, who are demanding life and justice, life in freedom and dignity. all authoritarian regimes respond to popular unrest by claiming that they are the result of foreign interference, because they are simply unable to recognise that even under the most brutal circumstances, there are always citizens willing to sacrifice everything to defend human rights, human dignity and freedom. we have to stand by those protesting against the repressive rule imposed on them. we have to use all the mechanisms at our disposal to get the iranian regime to stop persecuting dissidents, to stop imposing policies on those that attack the most elementary human rights, and finally open up a country diverse in ideologies, thoughts, religions and minorities, a democratic country where mahsa amini would never have become the spark and the symbol that lit the fire of protest.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, this long debate justifies your continued interest and engagement on human rights in iran in particular. we all share the shock for what happened, to mahsa amini and for the violent repression of the protests. we also share the same support for the courage of the iranian people who are demonstrating in the streets and facing a difficult situation. we will continue to follow what’s happening in the country and to use every opportunity to raise our position and our concerns about human rights in iran. as i mentioned, we will continue to consider all the options at our disposal, including restrictive measures. the foreign affairs council will decide this at the next meeting. this will be addressed by colleagues two weeks from now and i am sure that they will react accordingly with your wishes and concerns.
i have received seven motions for resolutions to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. – mahsa amini was just 22 years old, with her whole life ahead of her. her brutal death at the hands of the morality police, for simply not wearing a veil correctly, left not just iranians, but the whole world, devastated and indignant. the images we see daily from iran are horrifying. the brutality of the regime against protestors is unacceptable. women in iran are courageously risking their lives to reclaim their basic rights. mahsa amini’s death was not an accident. it was the result of systematic repressive policies against women’s human rights in iran. the message today is clear: the eu stands with the women of iran. now, we must back our words with actions - sanctions to those responsible, and it is time to re-evaluate our approach to iran.
in writing. – the death of mahsa jina amini has moved the public opinion all around the world and sparked public outrage across europe. the abysmal human rights situation in iran was brought, once more, to our attention and we simply cannot allow ourselves to sit by idly when the rights of women, activists, students and journalists are being trampled by the regime in teheran. president ebrahim raisi said the unrest that followed the brutal murder of masha amini was the latest move by hostile western powers against iran. no, there is no plot against iran. hundreds of thousands of iranian citizens, representing all segments of society demanded accountability for the death of mahsa amini and called for an end to violence and discrimination against women. we, in brussels and the other european capitals, should hear their cry for freedom and their rejection of the ongoing oppression. we should show, as a union, our unequivocal rejection of massive abuses on women’s rights and human rights in iran. i therefore call on the council to adopt additional sanctions on iran and to follow on that path the united states, who have already imposed sanctions on the morality police over the abuse of iranian women.
mr president, i believe that in the last few months, we, as representatives of the citizens and those who lead the institutions of the european union, have learned an important word - courage. we have been on the side of ukraine in this unjustified and unprovoked, murderous war that putin started from the very beginning. i helped ukraine export its grain. we've got refugees from the war. we sent humanitarian and military aid without any fear of russian threats. the union's courage is now rewarded by the collapse of the russian front in several regions. the union's courage, inspired by that of the ukrainians, must make it a major geopolitical and economic player in the world. our support for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of ukraine must not pause now. this investment in freedom and democracy is part of the values on which the european union was founded. and how long are we gonna do this? how long will we have the courage? no dictator will be able to cling to power, not even putin.
mr president, commissioner, europe is facing a major security crisis and a major energy crisis. why did we end up here? because in exchange for russian gas, oil and coal, we have accepted the situation in transnistria, the massacre in grozny, the annexation of the georgian provinces of ossetia and abkhazia, the annexation of crimea. we've limited ourselves to sanctions with no effect on russia. furthermore, in 2008, a european state blocked ukraine's entry into nato. today, putin threatens ukraine and europe with nuclear weapons, arguing that the united states also used them in '45. yes, world war ii ended in 1945, but the use of nuclear weapons in ukraine today marks the beginning of a nuclear war. ukraine must be supported with arms to liberate its own territory. then they can start negotiating.
mr. president, i think it's no secret to anyone that putin has compromised himself forever and is trying to permanently compromise any relationship we can build after making peace with russia. i think it's time to stand much more united, much more firm in any direction on ukraine, because putin failed to achieve his goal of annexing ukraine in just a few weeks, because we were united. today, the ukrainian military is much more determined, much better organized, much more mobilized, precisely because they feel our support, and putin is increasingly confused and constantly threatening with nuclear weapons. i think the time is coming when this tyrant will understand that he can no longer continue with this policy of terror and blackmail. it is time to stand even more united, and more united, and more determined in facing this tyrant.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clearer that putin's second coming to power in 2012 was fraught with a toxic and resentful identity. national-populism has worked inside and outside russia with its disinformation industry (we have said so). in recent decades it has captured and financed conspiracy theories and also anti-european political movements and ultra-ideologies, both conservative in the new extreme or radical right, as in the axis of left pro-venezuelan, cuban and iranian. it has also fuelled independence in case they blow up the union at some point. after the occupation of ukraine, however, they desperately need to generate doubt and fear in public opinion so that it cowers, so that it accepts, with all the layers of self-deception, dialogue, getting along, the one that has to give in to putin. to give in a little to someone like that, to a regime like that, is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. or rather, gas for today and disaster for tomorrow. ladies and gentlemen, in the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, particularly disinformation, we must continue to gather information and understand the mechanisms of direct and diffuse interference. the key battle is a dialectic of wills. we can't lose her.
mr. chairman, there is russian aggression against ukraine, there is russian propaganda. except this russian propaganda is on american platforms. the biggest lies of this propaganda are spread by american platforms and they don't take them down. why is that? because they obviously don't want to, and because they're helping you with a lie, namely the lie that the right wing was allied with putin. no, that's not true. putin's real allies in brussels are those who destroyed european energy; those who destroyed the coal mines; those who destroyed our independence; those who made the european union dependent on russian hydrocarbons; and those who fund the russian economy. these are putin's friends. not us right-wingers, not us nationalists. nationalism is the only resistance, the real source of resistance to bolshevism, and communism is the kremlin. just as we resisted with arms in hand after 1945 in eastern europe, and you abandoned and betrayed us in yalta, so today you continue to be putin's true allies. think about it.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, mr vice-president, not only since 24 february this year, but since the invasion of crimea and even before that, certain european political actors have taken russia's side and many others have been influenced by russian propaganda and disinformation. we cannot forget what happened in the american elections in which donald trump was elected, or in the brexit referendum, or in the apocryphal referendum in catalonia. we cannot forget the funding of many parties of the radical right, but also the launching and funding of many parties of the radical left. in all of them, there's always been russia, there's always been the global hacking hub that is russia. putin has turned russia into a kind of global kgb, to which we are all subject, to whose actions we are all exposed. and that is why it is essential that the european union takes clear measures, measures with the capacity to influence the media and, essentially, social networks. at a time when we have a new landscape from a communication point of view, which is not just that of traditional media, but that of social networks, we have to be able to find ways to counter propaganda and disinformation that can undermine our public opinions and, especially in this very difficult geopolitical context, put them on the side of putin, the kremlin and their violations of international law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, anti-european and anti-ukrainian propaganda is everywhere in the member states, and italy is no exception. time passes, but a certain right wing of putin appears, pretending to be the guardian of the national interest, but in reality with his eyes on the kremlin, continues to wink at authoritarianism, ignoring persecution of minorities and forgetting the gag on free expression. silvio berlusconi, a senior epp leader, claimed on live tv that putin invaded ukraine to "replace zelensky's government with a government of good people". the league continues to not denounce the cooperation agreement signed with putin's party, united russia, and maintains a veil of ambiguity with regard to the reports that have also been the subject of investigations with russian worlds, as well as regarding the secret visits of matteo salvini to the russian embassy in rome, a few hours after the invasion of ukraine. i also remember how the moscow regime used anti-ukrainian media outlets all over europe scientifically, spreading fake news, portraying ukrainian refugees as dangerous criminals or as wealthy men who came here without any real need. this is not a witch hunt, but a matter of national and european security and also a matter of humanity. there can be no ambiguity in the face of a regime which is violating international law and threatening to use nuclear weapons. we need unanimous condemnation and strong action, such as the one announced by the european commission to defend the integrity of our democracy, and which we support with all our strength.
mr. chairman, please! i won't name names, but i'll ask my colleagues to do a little soul-searching. i will not mention social democrats or chadians, but i could mention manuel schwesig, as my colleague said, lars klingbeil, sara wagenknecht, of course, and many other politicians. so please do a little soul-searching and think, social democrats, chads, who supported, who made putin strong. i would like to say something else, because i think that the most dangerous are those who repeat russian propaganda without knowing it, not fully aware of it. recently, there has been a lot of talk in european political discourse about fascism, post-fascism. anyone who doesn't agree with the mainstream is a fascist, and so on. this is, of course, a repetition of the rhetoric of the national front of the 1930s. if you look at history, you'll see that it was inspired by stalin. so we're repeating the soviet or post-soviet language. i can't conclude now, but i'm asking you to think about it.
mr president, commissioner, russian propaganda is certainly extremely effective. on the other hand, we must note that in the last period the fight against this false propaganda has also become stronger in the member states of the european union and is done by many politicians and ordinary people, not first-class politicians, but who are involved, and ordinary citizens, young people, ngos. i think we're on the right track from that point of view. but we have another big problem, the problem of putin's being reinforced by eu dignitaries. and here i'll give you, i'll list a few prime ministers of the european union who have gone to work for putin after their terms: schroeder is on everyone's lips, matteo renzi, former italian prime minister, employed by the russian firm, christian kern, former austrian chancellor, françois fillon, former french prime minister, esko aho, former finnish prime minister, paavo lipponen, former finnish prime minister, karin kneissl, former austrian foreign minister, hans schelling, former austrian finance minister and of course, dominique strauss-kahn. with such people around him and ... (president withdrew the speaker's word).
mr president, dear colleagues, this is what history will remember of this war: a mad dictator invaded his neighbour, caused death and destruction, but failed in the face of bravery and solidarity. ukraine wins, putin loses and europe grows more united. there is but one problem, and it remains horrible: putin’s lackeys are still here around us. they continue to poison our societal debates. they continue to undermine our democracies. they spread disinformation and turn citizens against each other. we must therefore build tools to stop them from winning elections through lies and manipulation, from feeding on the fears and insecurity of all citizens. we must therefore bring to light, and then forbid, any funding of our politics from russia. you cannot run for office in europe on russian money. full stop. second, we need to secure our ability to act as a union. we need to move away from the blackmail of unanimity and maintain our ability to push back against putin and others like him. let us bring down putin’s cronies wherever they are in our governments, in our parliaments, in our democracies!
mr president, i consider the european counter-offensive against putin in the field of ideas and information to be a great success. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union, which are being held in brussels. at first he was successful, but now the landscape has changed drastically to his detriment. european citizens' trust in him has been reduced to single digits in almost all eu countries, while russian public opinion has begun to question his choices and the costs they have for the russian economy and society. it is thus demonstrated in practice that freedom of the media leads to the right results in terms of public opinion when we limit the possibilities of penetration and undermining by authoritarian regimes and dictators. we're on the right track.
mr. chairman, please! in war, the fight against disinformation is as important as the destruction of enemy tanks or aircraft. for years, russians have used the internet to influence european public opinion. unfortunately, many journalists, politicians and artists in the member states are more or less consciously supporting moscow's narrative. we still don't know how to effectively counter it. we saw this in poland during the fake migration crisis, when attempts were made to sabotage the determined actions of our government to defend the borders of the european union. criticism of projects such as the canal through the vistula river, the baltic pipe gas pipeline, or the expansion of the polish army also serves only putin's interests. in an information war, each of us is a soldier, but as we've seen recently, one thoughtless tweet can have the power of an atomic bomb.
mr president, vladimir putin's government has no value and no limits, its weapons are illegitimate of any kind. in the face of the silence of a long-dormant, prostrate and confused europe, vladimir putin has methodically advanced his pawns for several years. according to many consistent sources, $300 million would have enabled russia to finance foreign european political parties for nearly a decade. there is of course the far right, but we already knew that and we had nothing to expect from them. but the most edifying, and i should say the most disgusting, is that european ngos which claim to be the bearers of healthy campaigns such as ecology and which have even provided some ministers to european countries, have also been financed by russian interests and companies such as gazprom. so-called environmentalists, literally bought to defend the nuclear phase-out and thus maintain europe's dependence on russian gas. who among them has become vladimir putin's accomplice? that is a question that deserves to be asked in this house. this is a question that the people of europe, who have a right to know the truth, should ask themselves. because, my friends, we now know that behind the veil of political ecology there are sometimes very dark interests and sometimes even the worst.
mr president, anti-european propaganda has been going on for some years now and some speeches a few minutes ago show this even in this institution. anti-european campaigns are not only being led by parties backed by putin, but also by those parties that don't know how to come up with solutions and need a scapegoat. freedom of speech has been twisted into freedom to lie, to manipulate people. all of these speeches can be overlooked in peacetime, but they are extremely difficult to accept in wartime, when we see more and more evidence of the massacres committed in ukraine, in the occupied territories, when we have among us so many people, children, women, old people, ukrainians, who were forced to leave behind their husbands, brothers, fathers, children, not knowing when they can return and when they will see them again, leaving behind the normal life they had. concrete and coordinated action is needed to stop this false propaganda. rapid and clear action is needed to expose the direct or indirect links between those who support anti-european campaigns.
thank you, president, dear colleagues, free movement between member states without internal border controls is one of the most tangible achievements of eu cooperation. if one has to summarise why it’s a good thing to have the european union despite all its failings and imperfections, then the provision of this fundamental human freedom to our peoples is certainly one of them. so it is ever more important then to ensure that this freedom is granted to all who fulfil the necessary criteria. now, romania and bulgaria fulfilled the necessary conditions more than 10 years ago. four member states, however – the netherlands, germany, france and finland – have blocked their accession, citing mainly rule-of-law concerns. now, those concerns, if they were real, should have been addressed directly and immediately. the more than 10-year-long delay, however, does give one the impression that perhaps other reasons played a part. reasons related to commercial interests, internal political matters, or perhaps just double standards so often applied by the west against eastern europeans. we haven’t really heard any convincing argument yet of why to keep romania and bulgaria out and excluded. it is high time to pay this old debt and allow these countries to join the schengen area immediately.
madam president, minister, vice-president, first, i would like to say to mr reil that there are only two countries that are the far west. one is portugal and the other is ireland, because they are geographically the far west of europe. nothing more. let me tell you that, 11 years after stating that romania and bulgaria are ready to be full members of schengen, the council has not been able to issue the decision that we – the european parliament, the european commission, romanians and bulgarians and all european citizens that love freedom – are expecting and are impatiently waiting for. romania and bulgaria have passed all the stress tests. they had the migration crisis of 2015; they had the pandemic, which was a challenge for schengen; and now they have the ukrainian refugees, which was a huge challenge. they were really impeccable in the way they implemented all the rules and principles of the schengen area. therefore, they deserve that now, this time, before 2023, we are able to decide that they are full members of the schengen area. this was always an epp flagship, and we want this to be the reality in the next months.
madam president, mr vice-president, mr minister, mr bek, romania and bulgaria are part of the european family. it is time, it is high time, to fully associate them with our area of free movement and to offer all their citizens equal rights. it is not just a symbol, it is a new key milestone, after the accession of romania and bulgaria to the union, already 15 years ago, in 2007. however, commissioner, the strengthening of schengen is also a security imperative, to ensure effective protection for all european citizens against the threats that are pointing at the doors of europe. the russian war in ukraine is a sad example of this. under the french presidency, president macron has pushed for the establishment of a new political governance of the schengen area. with my group, renew europe, we are fully committed to implementing this project to strengthen the schengen area, together with romania and bulgaria.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, honourable representative of the commission, of the council, i speak from the perspective of a european citizen, a citizen of romania, and i have sat and listened very carefully to what has been said in this house and i cannot hide my astonishment and shock at what i have heard. it has been confirmed and agreed by all that for 11 years romania and bulgaria have met all the conditions to enter schengen and yet in 2022 we are still having this discussion. we have colleagues in this house who come and say that perhaps romania and bulgaria should not be admitted to schengen, and should, if possible, be excluded from the eu. others come and say and excuse that one country is taking advantage and using its veto to stop romania and bulgaria from joining schengen. but we have the commission representatives who we see have the levers at their fingertips to use persuasion to convince countries. and i think poland and hungary to act in a certain direction. i ask you: citizens of romania and bulgaria who hear this discussion - that for 11 years, although they have fulfilled all their conditions, they are still not admitted to schengen - what can they think? what can they think about the european union? what can i think of this parliament and, last but not least, of the european commission? i therefore urge you to do everything possible to ensure that these countries, which have been meeting the conditions for 11 years, join schengen.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, this year, since the beginning of the invasion of the russian armed forces in ukraine, romania has taken in over a million ukrainian refugees. we have proven that we can secure the eastern border of the european union in the most difficult conditions and i say, clearly and emphatically, romania can secure a border of the schengen area in any conditions. the work carried out this year by the romanian border police, by the romanian authorities, the openness, the involvement of romanian citizens, the thousands of volunteers, all of these have helped to stabilise the situation at the eastern border of the european union. i have done this in the interests and for the benefit of the whole european union. including romania and bulgaria in the schengen area will make the whole european union safer, will make the whole schengen area safer. just as we accepted finland and sweden into nato this year to make us all safer, we are also asking for romania and bulgaria to be included in the schengen area, to make the whole european union safer. the citizens of romania and bulgaria, the companies of romania and bulgaria will benefit first, but the people and businesses of the whole european union will benefit, because all european citizens will be able to travel faster, easier, safer. all european companies will be able to move faster, without delays at the border. the european commission confirms, as of 2011, that romania and bulgaria fulfil all the conditions. we therefore call on the council of the european union to fulfil its obligation to accept bulgaria and romania into the schengen area without delay. the european union is strong when it is united. i ask you now to show unity and strengthen the european union.
madam president, first of all i would encourage you to urge the president of the european parliament to take action against the gentleman who spoke earlier in this chamber and used insulting, suburban language which is beneath the dignity of this institution, beneath the dignity of the prestige we must have in the european union. mr vice-president, i also thank you for the correctness you clearly showed when you said: the european commission has verified that romania has met all the criteria for 11 years, and has been applying the community acquis in the schengen area for 11 years. we are among the first to put it into practice whenever a change occurs, and the fact that he welcomed the fact that we had voluntarily asked for it: come again and convince yourself once again, you, the commission and the member states, that we are all right in terms of protecting the european union's borders. there's one thing i want to say hello to and thank you. i also want to congratulate the czech presidency for its fairness and for making it a priority that this injustice, which has been going on for 11 years, should be ended during the czech presidency. thank you, mr minister and honourable members, we must say one thing very clearly: we cannot accept that a country like romania and a population like romania are permanently humiliated. you go to an airport: european citizens on one side, romanians on the other; you go to the borders of the european union, you want to drive across: queues, kilometres, hours, days - the same humiliation; you want to transport goods: endless queues of tires. it is an absolutely humiliating and intolerable situation and which, moreover, has not even one single reason or motivation that can be said. this situation must end, because romania is among the most pro-european european nations. we must not cast any shadow of doubt that the european spirit, european solidarity is something and a value that we all hold dear and we must demonstrate this this year by raising that objection which was imposed by a member state and the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area.
madam chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for years we have heard different arguments. first of all, the border must be well guarded. time has shown that the borders are well guarded. secondly, the schengen area must be reformed. yeah, and there's been a huge improvement. third, there has to be a geopolitical situation. new, foundational. there is a fundamentally new geopolitical situation. what else needs to happen for bulgaria and romania to be part of the schengen area? we need serious policy decisions by responsible politicians. we cannot have some people being kept at the door, even though they are part of the european union, and others enjoying the great benefits and opportunities of the european union. this double standard creates a double standard for citizens. some are more european union citizens than others. this is unacceptable. it is neither european nor civilized, nor should it be enforced by different governments. so my call is: a strong position of the european parliament, a strong position of the european commission and it is time for the council to live up to the expectations of european citizens that bulgaria and romania should be part of schengen, because in this way we will contribute to our being united within a single european union. the direction is right and we must move forward.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. mr beck, i will ask you in german because i know your language. i don't know if you know my language. it is incredible what you and your colleague reil have said to us, the romanian people, today. it's a disgrace! i can't take that from a german. i grew up in german culture, and such tones were not part of my upbringing. (applause from the centre)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i unreservedly join those who support the integration of romania and bulgaria into schengen here in this house, and this parliament has always been consistent on this issue. i also welcome the statements of the european commission, the statements of the council, but let us not forget that we have had such debates before. we've had moments like this, we've had windows of political opportunity, we've heard statements like this, and yet our citizens, our businesses, are still standing in lines that they don't deserve. i want to be very clear, the responsibility for these repeated failures does not lie solely with the council. it must also be sought in our parliaments and governments and that is why i am making an appeal here today to my colleagues: let us, if we are consensual and aligned here, let us be consensual and aligned at home, let us work together, let us go the extra mile, let us leave no alibi for anyone ... in the council to break the unanimity, let us work together on the package of laws for justice, let us make a pact in the national parliament for schengen and then we can together hold accountable any european leader who will break or who would try to break european solidarity.
madam president, commissioner schinas, minister bek, for 11 years, two european countries that the romanians treat with respect, they have been systematically humiliating them by blocking their accession to schengen. and this, despite the fact that their companies have huge business in romania and own a good part of the banking and insurance system. romania has always treated its partners with respect. what more do we need to do to be treated as equals and respected by all eu members? to cause a food crisis at the european level, to block at the border the trains and the hundreds of trucks with grain that cross romania daily to reach western markets? in the netherlands, belgium, france, austria, germany and italy. don't make us play rough. we've been far too elegant and far too quiet so far. we are no less european than the westerners. don't send romanian voters to the populists and eurosceptics. the blocking of romania and bulgaria from schengen is an injustice to a profoundly european people. 500 years ago, a romanian was the first european to defeat and block the conqueror of constantinople, mehmed ii. his name was iancu de hunedoara. in his honor, all the catholic churches in the world ring their bells at noon today. i warn you that mehmed ii is now called putin. he attacked ukraine with tanks, but he also attacked the eurosystem. he has two weapons: lies and politicians he supports. he's got people already telling the romanians that the eurosystem has abandoned them. in order to cancel out any anti-european approach and to cancel out the eurosceptic discourse within the borders of romania and bulgaria, our countries must be binding in schengen. don't make fun of romania and bulgaria again. that's enough! 11 years was enough!
madam president, mr vice-president, mr minister bek, we have often heard that romania, along with bulgaria, fulfils the technical criteria for accession to the schengen area. we have been meeting the technical criteria for 11 years and this has been confirmed repeatedly by both the european parliament and the european commission. romania shall continue to implement and adapt to developments in the schengen acquis consistently, benefiting from access to the schengen information system and the visa information system. we have consistently demonstrated and continue to demonstrate our responsibility in managing the union's external border, guaranteeing security for 2 070 km of it. the last few months have put us in the unwelcome position of proving that we can even adequately manage a crisis situation with over a million refugees already in romania, while respecting all the schengen rules in force. we have to be honest and admit, the repeated postponements were for political reasons and the decision to be made is a political one. we believe that we are at a moment when the union must understand that clear political gestures are needed, which remove any ambiguity, gestures which show the solidity of our common project, its credibility and which recognize the merits and efforts where they are made, in accordance with the provisions assumed by the treaties. what do we want? we want the council to take a positive decision by the end of this year on the lifting of border controls between romania and bulgaria and the rest of the schengen area, and this is nothing but compliance with the provisions of the treaties, provisions which we accept and respect. romania deserves, romanians deserve to be treated equally like all other european citizens. romania must join the schengen area! we want romanians to move freely in the schengen area, like all other european citizens.
madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner schinas, minister bek, the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area is important because it truly brings us to the same status as european citizens as all other citizens of the member states. it is a natural and necessary step, which has become more than 15 years after our accession to the european union. regardless of the country's leadership, and of more or less appropriate regimes, european citizens should have the same rights, and the right to travel freely within the european union should be neither restricted nor impeded. we also need to look at and ensure that, at european level, people's right to travel is not hampered by outdated customs procedures that are not in line with european citizenship. and i'm not just saying this from hearsay, i'm saying this as a european citizen from arad county and i see the shooting lines at my house every day. the anti-european propaganda, as we have seen in this chamber, is getting harsher and harsher, and the fact that romanians and bulgarians are being held for hours at the schengen border to be able to move around the european union does nothing to help the european spirit that we all want to see in as many european citizens as possible.
madam president, mr vice president and especially mr minister, the iron curtain was not just an expression. it was a dividing line between two worlds - one of barriers and barbed wire and the other of free personal choice. it was such a strong dividing line that it made the berlin wall a symbol of the cold war. so strong a dividing line that the greatest victory of the cold war was the fall of the berlin wall. but a particularly valuable lesson was learned by the people on both sides of the wall. you can dig tunnels, you can design balloons, you can swim in the icy cold waters, but the desire for a dignified life wins, the desire to travel in peace wins. thirty-three years later, we're facing the same lesson, but we don't seem to have learned it. schengen, from a symbol of unity and the fall of borders, has become a new iron curtain and an occasion for some countries to point fingers at others. why so many years after bulgaria and romania have met all the requirements, they are not allowed in schengen? why do we keep making the same mistake? bulgaria has been part of europe for 1,300 years. both bulgarians and romanians are europeans just as much as anyone else and deserve to be treated with dignity and fairness, not waiting at the gates and the counters. thirty-three years later, europe is faced with the same choice. the question is this time on which side of the wall will you stand on european unity or on national ratings? but remember, politics no longer exists to build walls, but to tear them down.
madam president, i would like to tell mr reil, who i see is no longer in the chamber, that if romania had not done its job at the european union border, he would have seen what the wild west really means! because, look, 15 years after joining the european union, romania is still outside the schengen area. romanian citizens contribute to the gdp of other member states and yet they do not have the same rights and freedom of movement as the citizens of those countries. it is deeply regrettable and unacceptable that, for political reasons and due to internal political games in some member states, romanians are deprived, romanians, and romanian citizens, and the business environment are deprived of a right conferred by the european union treaties. and i would like to say to the european leaders who are listening to us and who may not trust some political parties, i just want to say this: have faith in romanian society and in the political antibodies that it has developed! trust the hundreds of thousands of romanians who defended in the streets the independence of justice and democracy in romania! and any delay in romania's accession to schengen is a helping hand you give to romania's extremist and anti-european parties. with romania in schengen and schengen, and the european union will be stronger!
madam president, honourable representatives of the council and the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking to you as a romanian mep and as the former minister of the interior of romania, the minister directly responsible for fulfilling the conditions for romania's integration into both the european union and the schengen area. for this reason, the integration of romania into the schengen area is a subject that concerns me and that i treat very personally, and there are three arguments that must lead to a quick decision on the integration of romania and bulgaria into schengen. first, the first argument is technical and should suffice, as it has been for all the states that are members of the schengen area. romania fulfils all the technical conditions for schengen, moreover, the war in ukraine was also a test for the external border of the european union, and romania passed it with flying colors. the second argument is the moral argument. europe has taught us, and has been teaching us for years, the lesson of solidarity. solidarity in the face of war for refugees and migrants, solidarity in the face of the energy crisis. romania did their homework without comment. he showed solidarity without reservation, and not because someone forced us. we did it because romanian citizens believe in these values. the question is: is europe capable of putting the lessons it has learned into practice? the third argument is a rather practical one and concerns the future of the european union. the future of the european union is threatened by euroscepticism, and we see this more and more often in national votes. the future of the european union also depends on how the union intends to treat the citizens of each member state. does the refusal to take a legitimate decision to integrate romania and bulgaria into schengen create the conditions for a wave of euroscepticism in these two countries? are you ready for this? is the lesson of brexit not enough? i think romania and bulgaria should become members of the european union quickly.
madam president, today many of our romanian and bulgarian colleagues are convincing you that it is worthwhile to join schengen, and it is. but today is not just their day, it is the day of united europe. is it not european patriotism to continue the european integration of schuman? is it not european patriotism to let dacia take the cars produced in mioveni faster to the customer in marseille? the frenchman doesn't win, the romanian doesn't win either? what good is it to hand out money and tax these companies in the worst hour of the european economy? is it not european patriotism to respect mr popa, the one who built your house in berlin, but who has to stand on the border for days when he comes home for christmas or easter? then we're not a family anymore? then we're not brothers anymore? vorgestern was born 33 years ago in berlin. 233 years ago, it was le tour de la bastille. and 33 years ago, the romanians overthrew communism and shouted: freedom! what romanians have not shouted anymore and what europeans often forget is that solidarity, that brotherhood, that equality. let's show them that europe is about that, let's show them that europe is united!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first debate on this subject, but i sincerely hope it will be the last, because it is long past time for bulgaria and romania, and now croatia, to be admitted to the schengen area. bulgaria and romania have done enough to meet the accession requirements, but more than a decade later they are still waiting. year after year, both countries are ignored for no objective reason. the reasons are entirely political. eleven years have passed since some governments in the union vetoed the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. it is time for these governments, led by the dutch, to abandon their double standards and demonstrate the european spirit of solidarity. it's time to put an end to this injustice. it's not fair to not acknowledge the efforts and achievements of both sides. it's not fair to deny the fact that in the refugee crisis that we've had, bulgaria has done the best job. the future of the european union depends on the degree to which the countries are united and show solidarity with each other. it is this solidarity that demands that bulgaria, romania and croatia be admitted to schengen immediately. it's time for the dream to become a reality.
madam president, commissioner, minister, that is enough! over the past 11 years, i have repeatedly insisted on romania's accession to schengen. the real question is who is opposed and why ? all european social democratic leaders have stated that they support romania's accession. we have not heard this from all the centre-right governments and i ask their representatives not just to speak here but to go and talk to their political colleagues, for example, in the netherlands. but if all of us in this room are in favour of accession, then i insist that those in the council, mr minister, tell us clearly whether in december there will be a vote for romania's accession to schengen from next year. and if it doesn't, what do we do? i therefore propose that we, the members of the european parliament, seek the support of the court of justice of the european union itself. and i'm sure many europeans will support us. in one of the tens of thousands of messages sent by romanians to european leaders that i will deposit at the council headquarters, irina, a 22-year-old from alba iulia, writes that joining schengen means for her that romanians become full european citizens. so the reality is simple: romanians deserve schengen!
madam president, romania deserves to be in schengen! every truck driver who goes through this hellhole all the time, every man who stands in line for hours! we really deserve this! there are colleagues from the governing coalition, i heard them speak, they had very strong messages pnl, psd and udmr had post-accession all governments of romania, with one exception. i think that none of these governments have fought enough, effectively and really for schengen and we have not given trust signals when we have made the judiciary vulnerable or bought the press. it's time to move on. so i ask you very much this time to fight for schengen really and effectively. together, let's fix the laws of justice, let's solve our problems at home and i think that will help a lot, because romania deserves to be in schengen. maybe we can make it this time together.
mr president, for 11 years romania has been sitting in the schengen back room, waiting for the door to open. for 11 years, my country has not only been ready to join, but has shown solidarity and exemplary action in crisis situations, has complied with the law and is now preparing to implement the new european security systems. however, after 11 years, we are still opposed by some big trading partners, whom romania has welcomed with open arms, treating them with respect. and i ask them today why they are keeping us captive in a loop of national interests and reinvented pretexts, affecting not only romanians, but also their own citizens and their companies? the people of my country want to know why, after all the great, many, painful sacrifices, they do not have the right to be in schengen, which even non-eu countries benefit from. these are not times to alienate friends. the wave of euroscepticism in the eu is also growing because of such mistakes. stop discriminating against romania! stop keeping us in the antechamber! it is our hard-earned right, and europe, i assure you, will only benefit.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i ask this question: who benefits from keeping romania and bulgaria outside the borders of the european union? does the european commission need this? is it in the interest of the european parliament? is it in the interest of the citizens of the european union? i think it is fundamentally wrong when, for petty political reasons, two nations are unjustifiably, unfairly, held at the gates of the european union. we are european citizens and we have confirmed this. over a million citizens of ukraine crossed the romanian border in this absurd invasion launched by putin. more than four thousand orphans have been received by romanian police at the european union border crossing points. we have a right to be treated fairly! and i make that appeal again, and i end with the phrase: who benefits from keeping bulgaria and romania outside the borders of the european union?
mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, i would like to ask you at the outset whether in a democracy we can choose the rules only when it suits us. if not, then this debate is useless, because we have already told bulgaria and romania in 2018 as the european parliament unequivocally that they belong to the schengen area. the european commission has repeatedly said that they meet all the criteria. then why are we closing the door on them? why are we closing the door on croatia, which meets all the criteria? because it suits some states? because some countries have a democracy like a supermarket, where they pick up the things that are essential to them, and others, that are irrelevant, try to delay? i think we need to say no, absolutely no, at the summit in december, which will be under the czech presidency. and say yes, we will admit romania, bulgaria and croatia into the schengen area.
mr. president, now is the time for the final decision. i want romanians to stop being considered second-class european citizens. and for that romania must enter schengen as soon as possible. i have told you many times in the plenary of this parliament, and i say it again today, that we have long since fulfilled all the conditions for accession. it is unfair that some are more equal than others and this has to stop. i want, in fact, equal rights for romanians, the same rights as for the dutch, germans and french. any further delay is no longer warranted. i hope you all support my motion.
mr. chairman, commissioner, thank you for your patience today, ladies and gentlemen. as one of the european union's greatest achievements, schengen embodies the principle of free movement, with over 400 million people, and represents the most tangible benefit of eu membership. at a time when the european integration project is being undermined by the crisis we are facing, and in particular the conflict in ukraine, we must give clear political support to the member states, through admission to the schengen area. measures should be taken to ensure that romania and bulgaria, which fulfilled all the technical conditions in 2011, can also benefit from their status. i believe that my country croatia will join the schengen area and the eurozone simultaneously on 1 january next year, in its tenth year of membership of the european union: the two closest integrations at the heart of the european union. the external borders of the european union must be strongly protected because of the many challenges we face and in this way we have to shape a common security policy, and to those who know nothing about my country and call it different qualifications, i say: do not use fake news.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we often speak of european solidarity. some states are extremely supportive when it comes to third countries, but more reluctant when it comes to giving their consent to romania's european path, i.e. accession to the schengen area. it's not fair. we've been doing our homework, the technical criteria for access have been met for over ten years. in recent months, the romanian authorities have handled over two million ukrainian refugees. romania has shown full solidarity in the context of the war in ukraine and has once again demonstrated that it is prepared to effectively control the external borders of the european union. delaying accession to the schengen area costs companies, carriers and citizens money and is a waste of time. plus the environmental cost of thousands of trucks sitting in traffic for tens of hours. the message from the citizens of romania and bulgaria is unequivocal: we no longer accept being considered second-class european citizens. the european commission and parliament reaffirm their firm support for accession, and the council must follow this fair approach without delay and without further conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will repeat a truth that you have heard in today's debate at least 100 times: for 11 years, romania has fulfilled all the technical requirements for joining the european area of free movement. it is only for political reasons that our access to the schengen area has been blocked. we expect to be treated equally with other european citizens and to move freely. business also expects the european union to honour its political commitments and lift the administrative and financial burden of being left out of the schengen area. at all levels of representation, my party, my political formation, the hungarian democratic union in romania, is campaigning and working for romania's accession to the schengen area. i hope that we will have a positive decision by the member states in december on our accession.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you all for this converging and cross-party support. what i take out of this debate are three very simple messages that you would allow me to share. message number one is that the schengen area is only possible because we have agreed to share responsibility, and to share responsibility means to be able to share sovereignty. there is no first class sovereignty and second class sovereignty. we are all responsible collectively for having decided to share our sovereignty together in managing our borders. message number two is that schengen does not belong to politicians, to ministers, to prime ministers, to the commissioner, or to my humble self. schengen belongs to europeans, to all europeans. i take this opportunity to publicly salute sophia in ‘t veld for finding the right words to remind her prime minister, the dutch prime minister, that he is not the owner – as nobody else is the owner – of schengen freedoms. message number three is that schengen is a fundamental project that we will constantly always adapt and bring forward. but there is no going back for schengen. schengen will go deeper, schengen will grow larger and will include bulgaria and romania.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, vice-president of the commission, honourable members, thank you for this timely debate. i have well noted all views expressed here. i will be very brief now and simply reiterate what i said at the beginning. achieving progress to enable bulgaria and romania to be fully part of the schengen area is among the priorities of the czech presidency. the presidency believes that there is a historical momentum to achieve a breakthrough in the completion of the schengen enlargement process. allow me just one empirical observation on the popular topic of unanimity, which has been mentioned in this debate. it has been suggested that, had the schengen enlargement been subject to the qualified majority voting, the problem would not be there. well, recalling the number and voting power of those member states who have been opposing it at particular stages of the debate over the past 11 years, i am not entirely sure about it. but as i said, the presidency is committed to an open and constructive discussion with all stakeholders in order to advance as much as possible to that substantive and hopefully decisive discussion at the december council. with regard to croatia, the presidency considers that croatia fulfils the criteria for the lifting of controls at internal borders. in this regard, the council sent its draft decision to the european parliament last june. we trust that the council will receive the opinion of the parliament in due course. thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the next part—session. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i strongly support the efforts of bulgaria, romania and croatia to become full members of the schengen area. the formal assessment procedure for bulgaria, romania and croatia on their readiness to join the schengen area has been successfully concluded and should therefore be finalised as soon as possible. last year, the council concluded that croatia had fulfilled all the requirements to become a schengen member, but the country is still waiting for the process to be completed. bulgaria and romania joined the european union in 2007, and croatia in 2013. over the years, these countries have fulfilled their obligations to enable their citizens to enjoy the rights that come with full membership of the schengen area. these countries, as a result of their efforts, now have state-of-the-art solutions and technology that contribute to the proper implementation of schengen rules. we can also be confident about the security measures taken by these countries, thanks to their effective management of migration flows and their efforts to combat crime. these are important prerequisites for the safe abolition of border controls by these countries. this would greatly facilitate travel and develop cross-border cooperation. there is no excuse for the incomprehensible laxity in admitting these countries to the schengen area. in my opinion, these countries should have been in the eu long ago.
in writing. romania is due to enter schengen on 1 january 2023, together with croatia and bulgaria. i ask the justice and home affairs council to take the decision to admit romania to schengen at its meeting on 9 december. the eu's external border in romania is one of the most secure, and technically we've been in the loop for a long time. there is no reason for romania and bulgaria, eu members since 2007, to join schengen after croatia, which joined 6 years later. the eu is an area of prosperity and the free movement of goods and people is an essential element in building and maintaining that prosperity. however, the fact that romania is outside schengen has caused major damage to the business environment, not only in romania, but in all the countries that do business in romania, including the netherlands, the country that has so far opposed my country's entry into schengen, but which, on the other hand, is among the top foreign investors in romania. 1 january 2023 must go down in history as the date on which romania, together with bulgaria and croatia, joined the schengen area.
in writing. as we all know, romania has been meeting the technical criteria for schengen membership for 11 years and has further demonstrated its ability to protect eu borders through its handling of the situation of ukrainian refugees. it is unacceptable that romanian citizens, among the most pro-european, continue to wait in endless queues at land and air border controls, just as it is unacceptable that romanian companies lose billions of euros annually due to unnecessary bureaucratic barriers in the european single market. i welcome the support expressed today by all political parties in the european parliament for romania's accession to the schengen area, as well as the support of the european commission, and i call on the minority in the council that has opposed romania's accession over the years to exercise their discernment and to join the overwhelming majority in the vote to be held at the justice and home affairs council in december.
in writing. for romania and bulgaria, the schengen issue is not only a desirable part of continued eu integration, but also a statutory obligation that the other member states have a duty to implement. for 11 years romania has met all the technical criteria for accession, but, along with bulgaria, it is caught up in the obsession, i would say, of a number of european states (thankfully, fewer and fewer), with the magnitude of corruption in the two countries. no one disputes that reality, but that was the case years ago; today, romania's anti-corruption institutions are among the most functional and unanimously praised in europe. as equal members of the european union, with obligations and benefits, we cannot accept blackmail or abuse from colleagues who think they have more rights in our common home. in these difficult times for the continent, romania is diligently and in good faith fulfilling all its obligations, and even more. if we are blocked from our rights any longer, the viability of the european project will be called into question and the doors of anti-eu populism will be opened wider, especially in two eminently pro-european and pro-euro-atlantic states.
in writing. it is high time that bulgaria gains the right to benefit from the full application of the provisions of the schengen acquis, including the abolition of internal border checks. eleven years later, we are still treated as a second-hand country, subject to a series of double standards. it's time this ended! it is time for the eu council to take a decision that is not purely political but based on the fulfilment of objective criteria. a decision that does not put european integration at a dead end, but rather gives it a new start. it is time for europe to stop hiding behind bureaucratic tricks, citing reasons not directly related to border management, and to fulfil its commitments. in this context, let me recall that bulgaria's technical readiness to protect the external borders has been repeatedly confirmed by various institutions at eu level - the commission, the parliament, and even individual member states. it is time for everyone to understand that the enlargement of the schengen area is not just a whim of some countries, it would be a victory for the whole eu and would make our external borders stronger and more resilient to crises, which have been frequent lately!
in writing. the european parliament has adopted numerous requests for romania and bulgaria to become full members of the free movement area. the most recent resolutions on this topic were voted in december 2018, june 2020 and july 2021. this debate and the resolution we will be voting on at the next session are all the more useful in that they highlight the lack of substance in the eu council's position. both the european commission and the european parliament consider that romania has fulfilled the criteria for schengen accession since 2011. moreover, in the current geopolitical context, my country is the guarantor of a border of the utmost importance and the gateway to the eu for ukraine's grain exports. however, romanian citizens and companies suffer humiliating and costly discrimination, as well as shameful for those who claim to impose it in the name of what hypocrisy! of alleged european values. we romanians have fulfilled our obligations under the schengen acquis. i therefore ask the eu council to take the right decision at its december meeting, in line with the values on which the european construction is based: romania, a member of the schengen area! otherwise, later might be too late...
author. – mr president, the situation in myanmar is getting worse by the day. the military regime is doing everything possible to prevent the press from reporting on the atrocities happening in the country. compared to our last october’s debate on myanmar, the total number of people killed and arrested has almost doubled. journalism has become a very dangerous profession in myanmar. media outlets are shut down and reports indicate serious violations of human rights, including torture and other abuses. ethnic and religious communities continue to the be subject of direct attacks by the army and the media, so women, men and children are forced to flee to seek refuge. we need a better and stronger international coordination on sanctions that directly targets the military junta, in order to avoid the loss of innocent lives, to be sure that sanctions do not provoke further suffering on the populations and workers. we must continue the support together with our regional partners of the national unity government in myanmar to ensure a transition to democracy and a tolerant society, and to make sure that everyone can enjoy their right of expression and belief without fear of persecution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to france, the european union is a great space power. this gives it responsibilities, including that of participating in the international management of space traffic. i therefore welcome these efforts to try to solve the problem of space debris, the increase of which is endangering the safety of space operations. the requirement of sustainability must not be limited to terrestrial space. it must also extend to outer space. i therefore support the two lines of action set out in the european parliament's resolution: on the one hand, to avoid the generation of new space debris and, on the other, to clean up the existing debris. these efforts will be a credit to the union if they are accepted despite the financial cost. with them, i hope that space will stop being turned into garbage. the conquest of space is a technological challenge, but also a great human adventure. let's lead by example.
there is only one request from mr nienaß, who has also spoken as a speaker. my colleagues here tell me that the rules do not forbid giving the floor to someone who has participated in the debate during the 'catch the eye'. i therefore accept mr nienaß's request, because he has been constantly, actively and enthusiastically involved in the debate. mr nienaß, you have a minute. process catch the eye
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for sharing the commission’s view that it is an absolutely necessity for the european union to work on space traffic management, and to implement the approach we have outlined in our joint communication together with the high representative. i have carefully listened to the emphasis that several of you put on the need to develop the union’s space law. as i mentioned in my introductory remarks, we are working on the legislative proposals. what is important in this respect, are three elements. firstly, we need to ensure that we get the scope right. this requires consultation with member states who have so far been the primary actors when it comes to space law and exercising their sovereign rights over their airspace. secondly, we need to ensure that such law does not put our industry at a disadvantage to industry in third countries. the way to this to do this is to ensure that obligations developed at the european union level are imposed to all satellite operators providing services within the european union. otherwise, eu legislation will imply additional costs only for eu operators. thirdly, we need a holistic approach in this respect. i can already indicate to you that we aim at complementing legislation in the area of stm by further proposals in the field of air traffic management to ensure that there is good coordination between space traffic management on the one side, and air traffic management on the other side. honourable members, let me conclude with a more general remark. stm is not just a technical matter that needs to be addressed to avoid, so that we can also in the future make a safe and sustainable use of space, stm also has a clear strategic and geopolitical dimension. it is as such that we have to deal with stm, which is why i particularly applaud the interest of the european parliament in this matter. after today’s debate, i know that the commission and the high representative can count on your continued support on implementing a european union approach on stm.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 136 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the following table is presented in order of appearance: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the urgent need for an eu fertiliser strategy to ensure food security in europe (2022/2855 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, i very much welcome the debate on fertilisers here in plenary today. a huge increase of fertiliser prices is now the main problem for our farmers. this is also a risk for food security. this situation is the direct consequence of the russian illegal aggression – illegal and unprovoked aggression – against ukraine and the huge gas prices, which affects the fertiliser prices. maintaining appropriate supply and affordability of fertilisers is absolutely crucial. in europe, nitrogen fertiliser prices increased 149% in one year between september 2021 and september 2022. the price of mined fertilisers also increased by 59% and 90% respectively over the same period. nitrogen fertilisers are a particular concern. simply put, as gas constitutes the main input for the production of nitrogen fertiliser, the high cost of gas has forced fertiliser companies to reduce their ammonia—based production by shutting it down or reducing it by up to 70%. this has not yet resulted in a significant shortfall in supply, as this has been compensated by higher imports, mostly from more reliable trade partners: morocco, canada, egypt. we clearly have to be sensitive to the risk of replacing one dependency with another. at the same time, in the current situation, these higher imports are easing supply pressure, but unfortunately are not solving the actual cause of the problem: the gas prices crisis. high and unstable fertiliser prices are a challenge not only for producers but also for farmers – and first of all for farmers. there are indications that european union farmers have ordered less fertilisers than usual this summer. the magnitude of the reduction may be around 20%. farmers are also concerned that output prices might not keep up with their input prices, squeezing their incomes. given all this, we will need to remain very attentive to the risk of lower yields and its influence on prices of food affecting the budgets of european families. in short, lower yields would result in further food inflation. we therefore need to strengthen our domestic fertiliser sector to make it more autonomous and reliable. we also need to strategically reduce our dependence on imports in this sector. it is not ideal that we continue to depend on russian imports of urea, for example. the commission has already taken measures to help ease the pressure on farmers. some of these measures do also have beneficial effects on the fertiliser industry. to name the most relevant, there was the exceptional support package of march 2022, mobilising the crisis reserve, of over eur 500 million, and enabling farmers to face the higher input costs, including for fertilisers. a special measure similar to the covid one was created under the second pillar of the cap, where up to 5% of the rural development fund uncommitted in the year 2021—2022 could be mobilised to aid farmers and rural businesses. this has a firepower of about eur 1.5 billion. there is another ad hoc temporary crisis framework for state aid which the commission also adopted in march 2022, reinforced in july, and which provides that farmers are eligible for support to eur 62 000. fertiliser producers are eligible for support too under this temporary framework. president von der leyen has announced the prolongation of this framework, and the maximum amount of support under the state aid ad hoc framework will be reviewed in the coming days. the winter preparedness package provides for member states to give priority as regards energy gas availability to relevant sectors, including fertilisers. moreover, as part of package of emergency measures in the energy sector, the commission has proposed a temporary solidarity contribution on surplus profits generated from activities in the main energy segments. these funds of up to eur 114 billion could mitigate the high energy prices to households and energy intensive industries, including the fertiliser sector. on the trade policy side, the commission has proposed to the council a temporary suspension of the custom tariffs for two key intermediate goods used in the production of nitrogen fertilisers, namely ammonia and urea. this is now being discussed in the council formations. the member states’ cap strategic plans are, and will be in the future, the key tools to support sustainable farming and incentivise reduced use of fertilisers. in the observation letters regarding the cap strategic plans, we promoted incentives for member states to prioritise the uptake of precision farming, to optimise the efficiency of plant nutrition and to enhance the use of alternatives to mineral fertilisers, including organic fertilisers, without sacrificing yields. we have encouraged our member states both in the observation letters and in their cap strategic plans to focus on fertiliser—saving measures that should not result in lower yields. in the draft plans, we have recorded 28 interventions in 17 member states whose main practice is nutrient management using either eco—schemes or agro—environmental climate payments. as regards precision farming, we have recorded nine interventions in the cap plans in eight member states, mostly supported under eco—schemes. we will also step up our agricultural knowledge and innovation system to help farmers with their uptake, their measures in their cap strategic plans. the cap farm advisory system will be useful in this regard. advisors could support farmers to adopt less fertiliser—demanding varieties and crops, and manage better the use of inputs. our fertiliser industry is itself well under way in its efforts to switch to the production of low carbon ammonia and other circular nutrient sources. we must support its efforts, as it is crucial for food security to have a viable and sustainable fertiliser industry in our member states. at the same time, we have to consider the international context. fertilisers are globally traded, which provides benefits to our farmers in case of need, but requires that our regulation ensure the competitiveness of our own domestic industry. this will be particularly important during the transition to green fertilisers in europe. honourable members, there are also concerns over global fertiliser availability and affordability. russia hinted at european union responsibility in such risks, notably through our sanctions. we have to be very clear on this. nothing in our sanctions is aimed at preventing russia to export fertilisers. there is clear evidence that russian exports of fertiliser to third countries have not decreased a lot and can still be exported to the eu. the commission is also engaged in international cooperation actions such as a global fertiliser challenge. in conclusion there is a potential in the new common agricultural policy and the toolbox it provides. we need well—functioning and autonomous domestic production of fertilising products. it is in the agricultural sector’s own interests. in fact, the fertiliser sector forms an important part of our food system, and we need to work towards its independence and resilience to outside disturbances. on our way to a sustainable future, we will ensure that food security is maintained, including in the global context. honourable members, i have a direct answer to your question about the future strategy. the commission is ready to put forward a communication on fertilisers. it will cover both internal and external dimensions, food security and greening aspects. it will inter alia tackle questions on how to make our fertiliser industry less externally dependent, but also how to make our farmers less dependent on fertilisers. it will also be a chance to review the effectiveness of the cap strategic plans in providing solutions to the fertiliser problem in general. this would include assessing whether proper attention has been paid to the uptake of precision farming, proper rational planning of fertiliser use and incentivising biological and other alternatives to traditional fertilisers. ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for your inspiration. we need a clear vision of how to ensure, in this crisis situation, the economic security of our farmers and, first of all, food security for our society.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in fact, fertilizer prices are extremely high right now, and not just since russia's invasion of ukraine. the price increase had already begun about a year ago. it also has to do with supply chains not functioning perfectly after the covid-19 pandemic. but of course, as you said, commissioner, it also has to do with exploding gas prices and exploding energy prices. the effects are fatal, on the one hand, at the level of farms, where costs are rising very rapidly and where there is a combination of high costs of fertilisers combined with high costs of energy, but also on the consumer side. we have now gone through a year where we had very high farm costs, high fertiliser prices and a very dry year. this has led, for example, to a 25 per cent reduction in maize production in the european union compared with the previous year. we will see the impact on food safety in the coming months. of course, the problem must also be solved in the long term. we have to take into account that we have a high concentration of animals in some parts of europe and that in other parts of europe the animals are so to speak extinct, so that we also lack a normal circular economy. but i think it needs - and i am very glad, commissioner, that you have raised this - communication. it needs a strategy, and i hope that it's not just about communication, but that there's money for it, so that we invest in knowledge, in research, in systems to bring fertilizer production back to europe, to bring knowledge back to europe, especially, of how to make a better circular economy of fertilizer, because i think we've now learned that this dependence that we have on global production doesn't work in this form.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, the price of gas in europe has increased by 800% compared with march last year. the accumulated causes of the fertilizer price are not only war related, but pre-war: the post-covid-19 situation, low reserves, the increase in gas prices, the high international demand and, of course, the war in ukraine. since the start of the war, the price of gas has doubled. this situation is having a serious impact on the viability of fertiliser production plants and especially those producing nitrogen fertilisers, due to their dependence on gas. these factors have forced some european companies to close several production plants, reducing fertiliser production by around 70% in the last year. a cut in fertiliser supply, coupled with a decline in imports from russia. sixty percent of the nutrients applied to our soil come from mineral fertilizers. if action is not taken in time, there can be very negative consequences, both for companies and for the sector and the entire value chain, as the drastic reduction in fertiliser production in europe has direct consequences on the global food system and on global food security. economic forecasts indicate that this problem will worsen in the coming months. therefore, the measures are not only applicable at this time but need to be maintained for a certain period, taking into account further increases in costs for farmers in the context of high inflation. to avoid inflationary pressures, a strategy is urgently needed to give confidence to market security. a not-so-short-term strategy, not for this year, maybe for the end of 2024. the suspension of customs duties on imports of ammonia and urea used for the production of nitrogen fertilisers should probably last until the end of next year. the use of organic fertilisers and manure and the transport from surplus to deficit regions must be facilitated, and the advances in science must be made to ensure that this type of fertiliser offers all the guarantees. the commission has announced a nutrient management plan, but it must focus on increasing the efficiency of its use of nutrients rather than on a linear reduction without taking into account the needs of each crop. finally, i ask that this strategy should allow us to become independent from a powerful european industry in this sector, but above all that it should make available to farmers reasonable and affordable prices for fertilisers, because their impact on food prices and inflation is very important, and food security is at risk.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, dear commissioner, it is urgent that we relaunch the production of nitrogen plants with priority access to gas and at a price that avoids a dramatic rise in food costs. this is a key measure to keep fertilizers accessible and affordable for farmers and to help european companies to maintain their production in europe – this is key to maintaining production at home. we call on the commission, more specifically, to put forward a fertilizer strategy in order to reduce dependency and increase resilience, and to come up with short, medium and long-term measures, such as diversifying the source of import of raw materials for the production of fertilizers to support a more efficient and targeted usage of fertilizers, to promote alternatives to non-organic fertilizers and to invest in innovation. this and perhaps other measures could be the subject of the communication you mentioned here. we also have to work with international partners, in particular with africa, and to help them with systemic agroecology approaches that allow us to shape the low-import system. however, the fertilizer crisis is just another symptom demonstrating the fragility of the system on which our food security is based. for this reason, the eu must urgently come forward with an integrated approach on food security, looking at it not only from an agricultural production perspective, but also from an economic, environmental, trade, regional and international partnership perspective. food security goes far beyond food production, and we have to understand that food production is key, but food security means more than that. if we want to avert the destabilisation of other countries – food, poverty, famine, social and political unrest – we have to act now. in my opinion, developing and investing in a coherent and comprehensive eu food security strategy is the only response. therefore, i call on the political groups here in parliament and the leadership of the european parliament to create a framework in which this integrated discussion can take place, similar to, for example, the task force that we created in renew europe. we need such an approach at parliament level in order to come up with our vision in this regard.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of an energy crisis whose outcome is difficult to predict and in the face of a cold season which could create new and serious problems, europe must learn to save on heat, electricity and water. this is the price it pays because for more than a year, despite repeated warnings and requests, the union has hesitated to intervene firmly to combat anomalies in the energy market. and so we've come to this situation that could throw us into unprecedented chaos. gas addicts, fertilizer producers, substances vital to agriculture, are collapsing. factories in romania, spain, lithuania, hungary and croatia have closed, others have drastically reduced production, and because of the war in ukraine, alternatives have dwindled. in the last year, for ammonia alone, 70% of the european market has disappeared. the 2023 projections are grim. without fertilisers, european agricultural production would fall by up to 45%, almost by half. both plant and animal farms will be affected, and they will have no food for animals. if urgent and effective solutions are not found, disaster in the sector will be unavoidable. the first signs are already showing. in my country, they started selling or slaughtering farm animals. in europe, farmers risk bankruptcy on the treadmill, and consumers will have empty shelves in front of them. the consumer the commission promised to protect, the european that the commission promised not to leave behind. i therefore call on the european commission to address this crisis quickly through several simultaneous actions, such as finding new markets from which to buy the necessary fertilisers without import duties and urgently identifying sufficient financial support to allow european producers to keep fertiliser plants open, and in the medium term to speed up legislation on new plant breeding techniques. food security is not a matter of economics. if you don't intervene today, europe will not eat tomorrow.
mr. president, i think we need to learn a very important lesson from this health crisis, and that is prevention. the european union, all the member states, have been taken by surprise by the pandemic, and i think it's essential that we understand that, together, we have been able to meet these challenges, and in the future we need a common european policy in terms of managing these crises, but i don't know if we will win the battle with propaganda, because our states are still divided, and citizens are very easily misled. that is why i think we need tools to eliminate this propaganda or to make it less visible and less strongly influential in terms of public perception in the member states. that's what i think we need to do in the next period.
mr. president, i believe that a country of 84 million citizens is living in historic moments and i believe that the death, much too soon, of mahsei amini is actually a protest initiated out of conviction for winning the right to life in this country where crimes are committed, where atrocities are committed, where, in the name of imaginary ideas, the state represses its own population. we have an obligation to send them a message of solidarity, of support, for all those who want this state of affairs that iran is going through to end. these are men who have risked their lives to fight for the values we hold dear and which are the foundation of the free world. this is what we have to fight for, this is what we voted for.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner nicolas schmit, colleagues, the european union is clearly fighting poverty, which is why we have the european pillar of social rights. we here in the european parliament are fighting for a social agenda in europe. we have things that we've been able to push and adopt, and the progress in this mandate on the child guarantee, the care strategy, the minimum wage and all the other projects that we have, are going in that direction. but what we need now in europe is a social dimension that is better taken into account by the member states. we need to strengthen european cooperation in this area. romania, for example, is the first in europe in terms of poverty. but when we look at how much european money has come to romania lately, the fact that the youth guarantee has not been well implemented, the child guarantee still has no official action plan communicated. all these are real concerns for member states to address. this actually means having more than just speeches, but implementation.
madam president, commissioner, i think that the figure of over 95 million european citizens living below the poverty line is alarming. i come from a country where the percentage is much higher, in romania, because we still have citizens who need substantial support from the state, from the european union. i think our policies in terms of fighting poverty need to focus a lot more on education, on integration into the labor market and obviously a lot more resources to train the next generation, because unfortunately, people give up very easily when they're fighting poverty, to quality health care, to education, and these things have medium-term and long-term effects. we need more ambition and determination in fighting poverty.
mr president, i would remind you that yesterday malta commemorated five years since the assassination of daphne caruana galizia. daphne caruana galizia, alone, was able to expose corruption at the highest levels. it feared no one even when the castilian political apparatus was mobilized to overthrow it and dissolve it. it is easy to forget that daphne was above all a woman, and proud to be a maltese woman. daphne's courageous story reminds us of the risk journalists face when governments shake their legs and ignore journalism in the face of evidence of corruption and criminality. this is when the risk to the safety of journalists is highest. mr president, two days ago, the two brothers who detonated the bomb admitted their crimes and will spend 40 years in prison and this is an important step, but a small step. there is still no full justice for the crime for which daphne was killed and exposed. and we are still far behind on this point. the murderers have been caught, now it is up to the politicians and officials who played an important role to be caught, as mep reuten said on the part of the socialists, now it is up to us to focus on the mastermind, on who planned the assassination. daphne deserved better; the maltese people deserved better. and now we will continue to push hard to ensure full justice, because yes, daphne was right, and yes, daphne is a maltese hero.
mr president, five years ago, all of us were shocked. on the day of daphne’s assassination, i stated that this was a terror attack on freedom of speech. i joined the vigil in sliema with my partner and a friend, only to realise that, due to partisan political reasons, we were not welcome there. i did not agree with all that daphne wrote, but what happened needed to be fought by us all, away from partisan bickering, which is leaving all of us bruised and citizens alienated. we hold strong to our maltese values – those of democracy, human liberties, justice and the rule of law, the same values of our european union. in five years, seven journalists have been – unacceptably – killed in our union and our european response is anti slapp legislation. important, but not enough. back home, we are undergoing an overhaul of our judicial, institutional, political and media set up. it gives me hope. reforms are being praised by international institutions, but when all this is done, this too will not be enough. what we need is to heal as a nation from political divisions rooted in the past. our challenge is to fight hate, classism, the belief that some opinions are superior to others. justice for daphne is being done in our courts. but yet, to honour her, we need to open minds, open hearts and fight partisan hate, and we must do that together.
mr president, one can fight with a gun or one can fight with a pen. history proves that most of the times a pen was a lot more powerful than a gun. for soldiers of the truth like daphne, the fight for a world with less corruption, for the freedom of speech and for the rule of law cost her life. they killed her, with impunity until today, but they could not kill her story. the daphne project - forbidden stories is still alive today and continues her work. governments should honour this fight for the truth, not bury it. there must be an end to impunity for those who silence journalists, activists and media workers. this is what we need to do in this house as well: legislate and work with our governments as well so that it stops and journalists are protected. this is what we owe to daphne and people like her. otherwise, there will be no truth left to fight for. and please, dear colleagues and commissioner, consider naming the european anti—slapp directive, the daphne law, because she deserves that.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, five years have passed since this murder which has astonished us all, but in these five years seven other journalists have left us and sacrificed themselves, putting themselves at the service of the truth and trying to present to public opinion what is happening around them. today, unfortunately, there are other journalists who are in a situation of being threatened. even in my country, in romania, there are journalists who are persecuted, who are blackmailed, who are threatened, and i think we need legislation that protects much better those who fight against those who think they are above the law, i think that, with the resources they have, they can influence the lives and destinies of honest people in europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that it is absolutely essential at this time to link the european agenda to the needs of the european citizens. the crisis generated by the war, the energy crisis, inflation have put huge challenges on the table of european decision-makers. that is why i think the policies that the commission is preparing must respond to these expectations, because people have very high bills, they work extra hours, but they have much lower incomes in relation to their needs. and that's why i think it's critical that we understand that we can fight poverty and protect jobs through investments and policies that are tailored to the needs of today's society.
mr president, dear colleagues, ursula von der leyen must immediately and unconditionally resign from her position as president of the european commission due to the fact that her actions are currently criminally investigated by the european public prosecutor’s office. the eppo just announced few days ago that it is investigating the way the contracts were signed between the european commission and the producers of vaccines. and this is what the court of auditors just stated in a report released a few days ago, and i quote: ‘the commission had signed up to november 2021, eur 71 billion worth of contracts on behalf of the member states to purchase up to 4.6 billion covid-19 vaccine doses’. that means that she purchased 10 doses of vaccines for every eu citizen, based on contracts that were never released to the public. this is how the contracts that she signed with these pharmaceutical companies were released to the public. how is this possible in a european union that is called on to be transparent with the way it is using people’s money? so i’m asking again and calling again for immediate and unconditional resignation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am deeply disgusted by the way in which figures, otherwise political no-gooders, are parading through this parliament, allowing themselves to spread lies and misinformation which are probably to putin's liking. recently, in this room, a gentleman by the name of reil, a political nobody, took the liberty of saying that romania and bulgaria do not deserve to be accepted into schengen. i find it an unacceptable affront, because we are a powerful nation, a european nation, and probably that gentleman, when he visited our country, walked at night on the most beautiful road in the world, such as transfagarasan, and obviously he saw nothing. but we are a nation that knows what we want and that is worth fighting for further to be accepted in the schengen area. and we will certainly not fall into the trap of populism and demagoguery that some people in this parliament are practicing.
mr. president, i am a physician, an emergency physician in iasi, romania, at the nicolae oblu emergency clinical hospital. i listened with amazement and outrage to the statements of the representatives of some pharmaceutical companies in the covid commission. it's official! now, the whole political-legal and economic scam related to the introduction of the digital green passport and the purchase of billions of doses of vaccines has collapsed and that is why i ask you today, once again, i have voted against the digital green passport every time, to urgently abandon this aberrant act, which only shows that you have been vaccinated, otherwise, you can transmit the disease, and on the other hand to immediately suspend these contracts worth billions of euros, romania has a billion euros given for such vaccines, which no longer correspond to the rules, and these contracts should be renegotiated. it is of the utmost importance and i am confident that you will support me in this endeavour, because such mistakes must not be repeated.
mr president, we are certainly on the verge of a food crisis, not only in europe but particularly in african countries and other poor countries around the world. food resources are in short supply, and on a global scale. and the consequence of the energy crisis is that this food crisis is getting even deeper. they are putting at risk basic human needs, services, products and, of course, food. we have a shortage of fertilizer, a shortage of all the supportive medical supplies. and the energy crisis is exacerbating this shortage, because the production of these fertilizers is very energy intensive. these are the consequences of putin's war. i think it's our duty to help ukraine as much as possible so that this putin war ends as soon as possible with putin's defeat.
this item is closed.
the minutes of this sitting will be tabled for approval by parliament tomorrow early afternoon.
the agenda has already been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on 'keeping the bills low: social and economic consequences of the war in ukraine and introduction of a tax on chance profits' (2022/2867 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, mr vice president of the european commission, we welcome the parliament’s initiative to keep this issue high on the agenda. russia’s war of aggression against ukraine and the weaponisation of energy supplies have driven energy prices to an unprecedented level and created a very difficult situation for many households and companies. russia’s aim is clear: hit our societies and our economies to create internal dissent and to fracture social cohesion. we will not let this happen. the eu is collectively doing all in its power to address various dimensions of the crisis and in particular to mitigate the effect of rising prices. i will address the main dimensions of this coordinated response. a) the energy supply. first, we are taking all possible measures to avoid energy shortages this winter. in only a few months, we have diversified our supplies, replenished our storage facilities close to their maximum, ensured safety of supply, and taken steps whenever possible to encourage the economy to consume less. we see that the price increases weigh more heavily on low-income families whose energy needs account for a higher percentage of their budget; without government support, many cannot afford that. the explosion of energy prices is also hitting smes and energy-intensive companies hard. many are facing an explosion of their costs. many risk going bankrupt. some production has been discontinued. some companies have closed down. others have no alternative but to move their production outside europe. we must stop that. in order to address these challenges, energy ministers at the end of september reached an agreement on allowing to offer regulated electricity prices also to small- and medium-sized enterprises, not only households and micro-enterprises. demand reduction measures, including a voluntary overall reduction target of 10% of gross electricity consumption and a reduction target of 5% of the electricity consumption in peak hours. capping market revenues obtained by power generators using low-cost technologies other than gas. mandatory temporary solidarity contribution applying to the profits of businesses active in the oil, gas, coal and refinery sectors, which has significantly increased compared to prior years. the second dimensions, or the ‘b)’ if you like: fiscal measures. at the national level. member states are doing their part and have taken over the past few months numerous fiscal measures to alleviate costs for businesses and families. these include lower indirect taxes, social transfers to households, direct interventions on prices paid by consumers, and extraordinary taxes on windfall profits on which i will speak later. we need to make sure that these measures are temporary and well targeted so that they make a genuine difference for the most affected parts of our society. our fiscal resources are not unlimited. let’s use them efficiently. the third dimension: social measures. on the social front, the czech presidency decided to dedicate the informal meeting of employment and social ministers a few days ago, on 13 and 14 october, to a discussion on the impact of energy poverty and the ukrainian crisis. in this context, i am pleased to mention that the recent adoption of the minimum wage directive, which is a powerful and very concrete signal of the importance of the eu, attaches to ensuring a decent standard of living of all workers. it is only, though, with our combined efforts that we can rise to this challenge, and i look forward to an efficient cooperation with you on all the proposals and initiatives we will work together on. and, finally, the fourth dimension: windfall profits. let me turn now to issues that that matter for windfall profits. on 7 october, a new regulation on emergency measures to reduce energy prices entered into force. the regulation introduces measures to collect and redistribute the energy sector’s surplus revenues to households and small- and medium-sized enterprises. more particularly, the new regulation addressed two types of windfall profits. first, it limits revenues of the electricity generators, including intermediaries that use so-called infra-marginal technologies to produce electricity such as renewables, nuclear and lignite. this is done via the introduction of a cap on the market revenues of infra-marginal technologies at 180 eur/mwh. member states will be able to redirect the surplus revenues generated via the introduction of such a cap towards supporting and protecting final electricity consumers. secondly, the regulation introduces a mandatory temporary solidarity contribution on the profits of businesses active in the crude petroleum, natural gas, coal and refinery sectors. the solidarity contribution will be calculated on taxable profits as determined under national tax rules in the fiscal year spending in 2022 and/or in 2023. the solidarity contribution will apply in addition to regular taxes and levies applicable in the member states. this regulation was adopted in less than two weeks as an emergency solution to current crisis. what i presented here today was an overview of what we, as the eu, managed to achieve in only a few months to ensure that families and companies are sheltered from the worst economic consequences of this unjustified war of aggression. we do not know what the future holds or how long the current conflict will last, but we will certainly maintain our resolve to seek collective and articulated responses to ensure a sustainable cost of living for our citizens.
executivevice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable minister, honourable members of the european parliament. russia’s illegal aggression against ukraine is causing a socio-economic upheaval across europe and beyond. families and businesses face a surge in food and energy prices there are the financial and monetary implications. lower-income households are worst hit as they spend proportionately much more on food and energy. businesses are also affected by rising energy costs, higher financing costs and lower consumer confidence. the current shock is very different from the covid-19 pandemic, so our policies must be different too. there are three questions to ask at the moment: how to minimise the costs caused by this war; how to distribute those costs fairly and how to lay the ground for future prosperity. i will address each one in turn. first, we need to work on the root causes of inflation in the energy markets. this requires action to secure alternative sources of supply, to reduce our energy demand and to address the current situation in electricity and gas markets. the european union has set up a platform for the joint purchase of gas, and we are increasing gas imports from reliable suppliers like norway and the united states. member states have agreed energy consumption reduction targets and exceptional measures while we prepare a broader review of the functioning of the electricity markets. the commission will present this afternoon additional measures to address gas prices and guarantees of security of supply for next winter. and we are also mobilising additional financial resources for member states to introduce repowereu chapters in the recovery and resilience plans. honourable members, the more successful we are regarding energy, the stronger the economic and social position will be. second, we must protect vulnerable households and businesses. it will not be possible to shield everyone from the economic consequences of the war. however, the public sector must protect those most exposed to high energy and food prices. above all, this means providing income support to those whose purchasing power is most under threat and the worst-affected businesses. to achieve that, our support must be targeted, temporary and retain incentives to reduce energy consumption. a price cap on market revenues for infra-marginal producers and the solidarity levy for the fossil fuel sector will allow member states to channel these revenues from the very large profits gained through unexpected circumstances towards those who need support the most. to provide generalised fiscal support would be not very helpful. it would fuel inflation, bring even higher energy prices, and potentially further weaken the economy. the european central bank is doing its job to contain inflation. the eu and the member states need to do their job as well. fiscal policy and monetary policy should not work at cross-purposes. this means providing effective support measures that are well-targeted and compatible with prudent fiscal policies that do not add to price pressures. honourable members, we also must look beyond this crisis. so, lastly, we must stay on course with the current policies to build a solid basis for europe’s future prosperity. i am referring in particular to the reforms and investments agreed by some member states in the recovery and resilience plans. hundreds of billions of euros in grants will be disbursed to member states over the next few years as a means of milestones and targets identified in their plans. and in the next months, we expect them to request eur 225 billion in loans that remain available. to conclude, honourable members, although this has been a brief overview, i hope i outlined many initiatives on the comprehensive approach that the commission is applying to the current situation. thank you, and i look forward to the first debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not the first time since the outbreak of the terrible war in ukraine that we have been concerned with the question: what are the consequences of this? and we hear a lot about what we want to do. but little has been done. if we are to analyse what needs to be done, the first thing to do is to ask: how can we increase supply? we have a high demand, but a reduced supply. and if i'm listening to what's been said today, you've got a lot on your plate. we've been hearing that for six months. but nothing has been done so far. i am aware of a green paper from the european commission in 2000 which already considered the creation of a purchasing community in the energy supply sector. it has been blocked by the council for 20 years. now the emergency has suddenly come. here's what's coming. today you are in the commission, working on the work programme for the coming year. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept this amendment. on the contrary: more bureaucratic burdens, no relief for the companies, no relief for the citizens. you're focusing on the wrong things, and what you're doing, you're doing way too late. that's not a sensible policy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we are in difficult times. we know that this cost of living crisis is being driven by war, the energy crisis and profit overruns, driving inflation to levels that we have not seen in europe for a very long time. that leaves a lot of households unable to pay their bills and that's what we have to be here talking about today. this reality calls us to a heartbreaking call: that of social inequality and increasing poverty and that of those most affected by this crisis. our policies - those of the european union and those of national governments - must now focus on effectively addressing this problem, on people being able to pay the bills. we european social democrats have concrete ideas on how to support families and businesses, how to reform the functioning of the energy market and strengthen social welfare in a fair way. first - and most urgently - we need a european union winter solidarity package, including rent transfers to mitigate the impact of higher energy prices. we can't wait any longer because people can't have to choose between turning on the heat or paying for the shopping basket. the problems we are facing confirm that we need a permanent european budgetary capacity to deal with crises, as well as strengthening the sure instrument that we launched during the pandemic. secondly, we have to make sure that there are strong and effective social safety nets. the minimum wage directive should be implemented immediately by the member states. we know that the regulation provides for two years for member states to transpose it, but in these times of need we need it - and it is obviously urgent - to do so now. no household should be disconnected from the electricity grid. and thirdly, we need more revenue to be able to finance these aids. it is a matter of social justice and fiscal equity. we cannot ask for solidarity from the families, from those who are most in need, and not apply that solidarity to those who are actually filling their pockets with the benefits that this energy crisis is bringing about. finally, europe urgently needs to put forward a thorough reform of energy markets to diversify our energy sources and to reduce our dependence on putin and fossil fuels in general. the last few years have been the most difficult for the european union. the war has returned to our doorsteps and brings with it the worst of all: extremism, the rise of the nationalisms we expected to be dead in our union. we need european solidarity, and we need to do it. i call on the commission and the council to break the deadlock and find solutions. the citizens are waiting for him.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, vice-president dombrovskis, commissioner gentiloni, distinguished members of the council, dear colleagues, we are indeed living in difficult times and in difficult times what we need is three important ingredients: we need ambition, we need flexibility, and we need solidarity. ambition is important these days because regardless of the pain that we are feeling, all of us today, we need to be resolved and keep the important goals that we’ve set at the european union level. and that means that the dual transformation, the green and the digital, the way we would like to get the strategic autonomy, we should not, you know, cancel our results on this. on the second time, we need flexibility. we need to have creative instruments that can reunite the resources that we put together. then we also need in times of difficulty, a solidarity that only us at european level can achieve together. for that, it is important to have a view of the citizens, the entrepreneurs and the self-employed. and renew europe is proposing something that you have already seen in the public sphere: a shield, a shield that will not necessarily imply that states know everything for our citizens, but that we go close to them and allow them to have the necessary micro investments to do that. and repowereu is exactly the instrument that we have been working together these days in the parliament, we’ve seen the commission, we’ve seen the general approach of the council, and this is something that can go down and have the micro investments at the vulnerable level, at the sme and micro-enterprise level. this is a way of pushing forward with solidarity. this is the renew way. this is the european way.
in writing. we have seen since the spring that the economic performance of the union will deteriorate because of the war and the sanctions, as i warned in my may plenary speech. since then, however, inflation has become more rampant, and the outlook is more dire. the imf's october world economic forecast estimates that the eu's economic growth will be two thirds lower than in april. 70% of the soaring inflation is driven by high energy prices. this has unforeseeable consequences for people and businesses and for the union's competitiveness. if this sanctions policy continues, the european union will fall behind its competitors. because of the self-sufficiency of the us energy, china will continue to have access to russian gas and raw materials. if things continue like this, a whole host of companies in europe will close down and industries will disappear. moreover, while trying to save their citizens and businesses, member states are increasingly indebted. it is time for the eu to come to its senses. we should change our sanctions policy so that europe does not pay the price of war. otherwise, future generations of europeans will have no choice but to pay back the accumulated debts of a continent with a declining economy.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. i would first like to express my support for the european commission's proposal to make cohesion policy more flexible and to give member states the possibility to allocate up to 10% of their national allocation for the period 2014-2020 to measures to mitigate the impact of the current energy crisis. the €40 billion thus made available to member states is badly needed in the current energy context and will allow them to strengthen their interventions to support vulnerable households, grant working capital grants to smes, and measures aimed at employment and job creation. but i would like to draw attention, in the context of the european council summit this week, to the urgent need to decouple the price of electricity from the price of gas. as we know, under the current eu market organisation, the price of electricity is set by the producers with the highest production costs - currently those producing electricity - based on natural gas, which is a barrier that needs to be removed immediately to allow european consumers to benefit from the low prices of electricity produced from renewable sources.
in writing. isolation and isolation during the pandemic has led to a general deterioration in mental health, depression or anxiety in many people. during this period, the importance of proper support and care for people with mental illness was even more evident than usual. unfortunately, the pandemic has made us painfully aware of the shortcomings in this area as well, especially when it comes to access to mental health treatment for the youngest. a huge problem is the lack of psychiatrists who specialize in working with children. member states should take immediate action to address this problem. it is also very important to provide appropriate support in schools. teachers and carers should receive basic training in child and adolescent mental health to enable them to recognise early warning signs, provide support to pupils and support preventive actions. of course, the pandemic was a difficult time, and it led to a lot of people having a lot of mental health issues, but it also led to some good things. it's changing our approach to mental health, which in the past has often been downplayed. we see that without mental health, there is no overall health. over the past three years, the eu has spent as much as €28 million on promoting mental health, and the president of the commission has announced a new initiative for mental health. this is a big, important change.
written. i'm glad we're discussing this key topic. nearly a billion people worldwide, and as many as 84 million in europe, are living with mental health disorders. the total cost of mental illness in the 28 eu countries is estimated at more than 4% of gdp, or more than eur 600 billion. depression is now the leading cause of disability, and suicide is the fourth leading cause of death among young people between the ages of 15 and 29. in croatia as many as 44 thousand children and young people have mental health difficulties and there is an increase in suicides and hospitalizations in the psychiatric hospital for children and youth in zagreb by as much as 30%. the european cancer plan was a major breakthrough across the european union, and a major financial contribution was secured. i would like to see that same focus on mental health, and that's why it's important that we adopt this strategy as soon as possible and start implementing action plans, because the numbers of mental health disorders are really alarming.
in writing. good mental health belongs to everyone. mental health care is not about age, gender or life situation, it's about all of us. everyone needs good mental health care, and we need to work towards a society where everyone can get it and live in a way that promotes their own mental health. in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, prioritizing mental health is more important than ever. if a large proportion of our young people are struggling with their mental health, europe's future does not look bright. so there is a great need for mental health care, especially for young people, and that needs to be addressed in health care. at the same time, the nursing sector is under-resourced everywhere, even though we need more resources for mental health care. we need to maintain structures that create the conditions for good mental health. these include support for families, quality day care and school services. equally important is the development of work environments and management so that they create and support well-being for all. mental health now seems to be rising high on our union agenda, which is good news. a significant step was the eu strategy on mental health presented by the president of the commission in his state of the union address. i look forward to the commission's presentation of the mental health measures next year. mental health services need to be adequate and of high quality to support us in the throes of life. early access to services and prevention are crucial to avoid accumulating a mental health debt. mental health needs to be better integrated into health policy at both eu and national level. taking care of your mental health is an investment in your future.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes).
a second request for urgent procedure, on the ‘non-recognition of russian travel documents issued in occupied foreign regions.’ before the vote, again, only the mover and one speaker against may be heard, along with the chair or rapporteur of the committee responsible. i will now give the floor to mr lópez-aguilar.
chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, colleagues, again, it’ll be short. just to explain the subject matter of the issue, you know that russia has decided to illegally annex some territories in ukraine and recognise independence for other territories in georgia, started to issue travel documents, namely so—called russian passports, to the residents of those illegally occupied territories. the commission has decided to come up with a proposal to put an end to that illegal practice, with a common approach by all of the member states. that is why the commission is coming up with that decision – precisely to have a common approach not to accept those travel documents or passports illegally issued by russia. and i simply suggest, in order to stand up to the kind of strong political signal that we have endorsed all the way against russian aggression, that we also endorse the urgent procedure concerning the commission’s decision.
so the oral amendment reads as follows: ‘deplores the unbearable modus operandi by the turkish authorities in supporting human trafficking and non-cooperation with the greek authorities; strongly condemns the inhuman and cruel operations, which often lead to life-threatening situations and severe injuries of refugees; highlights in this regard the impactful work of the agency and its personnel, which operates under challenging and sometimes perilous conditions to fulfil its mandate and ensure the functioning of the union’s external borders together with the member states’.
is there any opposition to the oral amendments? yes, there is clear opposition, so the oral amendment cannot be taken.
thereby we conclude our votes this afternoon. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes)
the talks are still going on. first, i have an announcement. the ecr group has submitted to the president decisions concerning changes in the appointments of members of committees and delegations. these decisions shall be entered in the minutes of today's meeting and shall take effect on the date of this notification.
the next item is the report by mr nicolae ştefănuţan and mr niclas herbst, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2023 all sections (12108/2022 - c9-0306/2022 - 2022/0212 ((bud)) (a9-0241/2022).
the reporter. madam president, i was a little nervous because i just gave a historic, an important vote that brings romania closer to schengen today. but today we're talking about the eu budget, the money we have and what we're going to do with it. martin luther king, commissioner, madam president, my fellow shadow rapporteurs, said that our measure is not where we are when we are comfortable, when we are at peace, but where we are when we are in trials and tribulations. when i was appointed rapporteur for the 2023 union budget, i was honoured because it followed the economic recovery. but for many europeans, for most europeans, this year is the year of inflation, it's the year of the cold in the houses, and for millions of ukrainians it's the blackest year. the year that took their loved ones, took their homes, the year that turned people, from normal people with their homes, into displaced people, into refugees. the year their lives changed. in this endeavor, their courage and dignity moved us. the ukrainians have reminded us of the value of democracy, peace, freedom. that's what they're fighting for, and that's what we have to fight for. we will not be defeated, we will stand up and say today, united, that the european union is showing courage as it has never done before. with words, with deeds, with money, with weapons, where putin destroys, we must rebuild. where putin is pushing, europe must welcome him with open arms. where putin brings fear and terror, europe brings peace and quiet. the eu budget must be a shield for european democracy and it must show one simple thing: that we are united in good times and in bad. we are today responding with a budget to three great problems of the people, of the citizens. first, we have a border war that affects us. we cannot accept that dictators win this war. ukraine must win for democracy and the rule of law to last. if you don't, we are all in danger, we are in danger. this war has consequences in ukraine, but also in moldova and in all the countries of the union. that's why we've increased the budget where the war has left a bad legacy. 853 million euros for the consequences of the war in ukraine and europe, to help refugees, to have money for our own defense, for our military mobility. money for young people through erasmus+. money for moldova, which is in dire need of help right now. money for all our states to cope with the flow of people, and your state, mr. president, has been much tried in this period. second, we have a major energy crisis, with a very high price that we are paying. on all the energy bills this winter should appear the face of vladimir vladimirovich putin, because people, all europeans, suffer and suffer because of him. but we can't just point to where the fault is. we need to give the people clear answers. so parliament is proposing over €533 million, more than half a billion for energy, through aid for energy bills, aid for renewable energy sources and climate change adaptation. this money must be supplemented, of course, by the repowereu programme and other money, so as not to let the european economy fall because of energy. citizens must have access to cheap and safe energy this winter, and if we have learned anything as europeans from the pandemic, it is that together we are much stronger. when states responded separately, the european union suffered, and we see that in italy today. the last priority, madam president, and i would like to conclude, is the european economy and society. health must remain a priority in europe, or we have learned nothing from the pandemic. the rule of law and eu values must not change in times of crisis. we need to support culture and we need to support civil society organisations and european values. churchill, during world war ii, said this: "if we don't support culture now, if we cut money, why do we fight with weapons? this is exactly what our philosophy should be and not to give up on values. and pacem para bellum, if you want peace, you must prepare for war, and we must be prepared today to respond to what the europeans expect of us.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, i am honoured today to attend the debate in the plenary session of your house on the position of the european parliament on the draft budget of the european union for 2023. we already had the opportunity to exchange views on this topic on 13 september 2022, when i presented the council’s position. meanwhile, the commission has presented an amending letter to the draft budget, and this adjustment will have an impact on the positions of both institutions. we live in very difficult times. the war on our continent affects the lives of millions of people. the severe energy crisis, combined with the historically high level of inflation, the enduring post-pandemic recovery and the disruption of the global supply chains have fundamentally changed our economies. all these developments have led to a large number of new needs: relief to ukraine, humanitarian aid, food aid to third countries, support for refugees, cost of strategic autonomy, and measures to face the energy crisis. at the same time, member states are struggling with their public finances. some member states have difficulties in respecting the stability and growth pact. even if they could afford huge increases in public spending, be it on national or european level, carry the risk of bringing more inflation. in other words, we have many needs, but little leeway. we have to prioritise. we have to make choices. what’s more important and what we can wait for. in a world that’s upside down, we cannot implement our activities and programmes like nothing has happened. as our minister of finance recently said, we have to identify negative priorities. it’s essential to back out of some policies and reinforce others, and to create margins in the budget to allow the union to act. to illustrate the importance of margins, i would like to come back to a discussion we had last week in the budget trialogue. in its position, the european parliament has increased the budget line for humanitarian aid by eur 250 million. in these troubled times, the council also considers it very important to foresee sufficient money for humanitarian aid. but i question the proposal of the european parliament last week. how robust is the proposed increase? what does it cover? more importantly in these unprecedented times, if this envelope is enough, what can the union do? the proposal of the european parliament leaves no margins in the budget. again, in these unpredictable times, we need margins to allow the union to react. madam president, honourable members, commissioner, please allow me now to make some preliminary remarks on the european parliament’s amendments to the council’s position that are subject to the vote of the plenary. it’s clear that, in principle, the european parliament and the council share the same priorities for the entire mff period and for next year as well. however, our positions are very divergent in terms of amounts. the european parliament, at this stage, does not indicate an intention to reprioritise. the european parliament proposes an increase above the council position of eur 3.3 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 1.8 billion in payment appropriations. as i explained earlier, the council cannot accept the european parliament’s requests for an almost full use of the margins for each heading, with the exception of heading three, as well as for the substantial use of special instruments. this year, we need to consider more carefully than ever before how the money should be allocated. a very well balanced budget for 2023 is an essential condition to create trust for a more secure future, avoid unnecessary expenditure and foresee sufficient flexibility in order to promptly respond to new challenges that may occur next year. allow me now to touch upon a few points in more detail. regarding heading one and, in particular, the financing of research and innovation. the council recognises that horizon europe is an essential instrument to support a successful digital transition, and to contribute to the union’s economic recovery, the green deal and a climate neutral economy. however, the european parliament’s proposal to increase the allocation foreseen by the council by almost eur 1 billion considerably diverges from the financial programming and can put pressure on the sector to fully digest the amounts made available. in these times of crisis, is this the area where we really want to use so much of our scarce resources? moreover, the council is surprised by the european parliament’s proposal to make use of more than eur 836 million resulting from research decommitments made under article 15 of the financial regulation. this amount is not included in the mff agreement, nor does it seem to correspond to the calculation of the commission. the council takes note of the european parliament’s statement that new initiatives under heading one should be financed with fresh money. this means that such money would not be available for other policy ambitions. regarding the expenditure for natural resources and environment, the council acknowledges the crucial role of the life programme, but it’s difficult to understand the european parliament’s intention of frontloading this expenditure with the proposal to increase the allocation for 2023 by more than eur 100 million, compared to the council position. the council reaffirms its strong commitment to ensuring sufficient funding for the important areas of migration, borders, security and defence. however, we consider excessive the increases proposed by the european parliament for the asylum, migration and integration fund, as well as for the border management instrument, given their real absorption capacities. regarding the external action of the union, the council takes note of the proposed increase of eur 415 million, as compared to the council position and to the draft budget to be fully financed with special instruments. this reinforcement includes the european parliament’s demands to increase humanitarian aid by eur 250 million. as i mentioned earlier, this is a sensitive issue. indeed, like the european parliament, the council also wants sufficient means to provide humanitarian aid to the people in need, be it in ukraine or elsewhere. but at the same time we must recognise that it’s almost impossible to make a robust forecast for these needs. events will be unpredictable and unprecedented. we are ready to examine this issue closely, and i am sure we will find a common approach. finally, ladies and gentlemen, some words on heading seven, administrative expenditure. i am very happy that the revised calculations of the automatic salary increase have created limited margins under this heading and that we do not have to use the little flexibility we have in the budget for this heading. at the same time, i will not hide from you that, after the significant increase of the establishment plan of the european parliament in the budget for 2022, the council deeply regrets that your house proposes to increase the european parliament’s establishment plan again in the budget for 2023, now with 150 posts. i am afraid this will complicate our discussions during the conciliation in the coming months. to sum up, i think we have some work to do in the coming months. in the contacts i have had so far with the rapporteurs and several members of the committee on budgets, i have perceived an understanding for the council’s position. several of the proposals the european parliament will vote on tomorrow show that we share the same priorities. however, we need to find a balanced compromise to bridge the huge difference between the figures proposed by the parliament and by the council. moreover, i have a strong confidence in the commission, which will act – i am sure – as an honest broker in the conciliation. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, first, i really would like to express my regret that i miss, due to this scheduled debate, the parallel college debate where we will discuss and decide about a long list of necessary measures related to the energy crisis and of course, some of them with some financial implications. but i understand, we are one week away from the start of the consultation on the draft budget for 2023 and that’s why, probably, this meeting was scheduled now. it has become a habit for me to say that the negotiations on the annual draft budget take place in a context of multiple crises. first, covid-19, now the unprovoked and unjustified russian war against ukraine and its consequences for the ukrainian people, as well as its consequences in europe and around the world. in such times, it is more than ever important to put aside our differences and to work together on reaching our shared goals and priorities. i would like to thank the european parliament, especially the committee on budgets and all specialist committees for the intensive work on the commission’s proposal for the draft budget 2023. this resulted in more than 1200 proposed amendments. therefore, i really congratulate two rapporteurs, mr ștefănuță and mr herbst for reaching wide support among political groups. first, i appreciate that the amendments proposed by parliament to reinstate the expenditure at the level proposed by the commission in the draft budget. second, parliament proposes more money for a number of programmes for 2023. this includes research and innovation, energy independence and the twin transition. it covers boosting competitiveness, including parliament’s support for the future flagship programmes and employment opportunities, crisis response and health supporting our shared priorities. both the european parliament and the council have now set the framework of their respective negotiating mandates. as usual at this point, the positions of parliament and the council diverge substantially. but i can only reiterate my regret about the significant cuts proposed by the council. they do not follow the council’s own priorities, but at the same time parliament requests substantially increases; this would require extensive mobilisation of special instruments thereby going significantly beyond the commission’s proposal. we are not even halfway through the long-term budget. with the developments in the first two years, it has become clear that we must manage our resources carefully and preserve flexibility to be able to respond to unforeseen challenges. unfortunately, given the limited availabilities, we will have to face some tough choices between what we would like to do and what we finally can do. on the one side, we have a moral obligation towards our neighbours in ukraine. we must also meet the expectations of our citizens to respond to geopolitical and economic challenges at union level. on the other side, we have to use the available resources in the most efficient way to meet the most urgent needs. today’s debate and the exchange of views should increase mutual understanding and facilitate, as always, a common approach. so i am confident that the negotiations will continue in the positive spirit we had until now, and that parliament and the council will manage to reconcile their positions. inevitably, a clear prioritisation of tabled amendments, as well as concessions from both sides, will be necessary. as regards the next steps, we already presented the amending letter in last week’s dialogue. the amending letter addresses some elements included both in the council’s position and in parliament’s amendments. therefore, i would like to ask the parliament and the council to consider this amending letter as a starting point in the negotiating process. a timely agreement on a solid eu budget is the best way to stimulate economic recovery. support our society, respond to the expectations of our citizens and, last but not least, respond to the consequences of the russian war against ukraine and, finally, another important and stronger assurance to our citizens that we are able to take decisions in due time.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commissioner has put it well: ultimately, the russian war of aggression against ukraine is disrupting the entire financial architecture. if we are honest, we need a new financial perspective, not just for foreign policy, but also for the tasks we really have to tackle. this, of course, directly involves the large-scale aid to ukraine, and thus also to the whole of this region, where all budget lines are extremely tight. and that is why we can only work towards that which is necessary on priorities of priorities - and that is among other things what we can do for ukraine - that this is done with the limited resources we have. but we should also make available the resources we have in other areas, whether it is in palestine or in other urgent emergencies. otherwise we will lose our credibility in this area.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. madam president, mr commissioner, i had the honour of being the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development on the 2023 budget, and in that capacity i would like to make it clear that we have - i think you will agree - a very serious problem: the spending margin allowed by the union's multiannual financial framework for the 2021-2027 cycle has been completely exhausted, which does not allow the union to meet the urgent challenges of its external action. first there was the covid pandemic and then the brutal russian aggression against ukraine, with its global effects, such as the food security crisis and the energy crisis. all this has dramatically increased humanitarian needs and, most importantly, put the sustainable development goals at a critical juncture. in this regard, the situation is of particular concern with regard to the climate emergency objectives and the need to support our partner countries in implementing climate change adaptation and mitigation actions. there is obviously a gap between the events, which came unexpectedly, and the financial forecasts and the union. to deal with this situation, however, it is extremely urgent that the member states reform the multiannual financial framework. it is a difficult objective - it is easy to say, not easy to do - but we must take up this objective and approve a very ambitious increase in the budget chapter devoted to external action, especially for geopolitical intelligence. if the union does not prove to be a reliable partner for the development of the partner countries, our geopolitical competitor china will not miss the opportunity. we must have this geopolitical ambition and make it happen through the budget.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – madam president, commissioner, dear distinguished members of the council, dear colleagues, it is in times of crisis when the union needs to be closer to its citizens with strategies, action and, most importantly, with the needed budgetary and financial needs. as chair of the employment committee, i wanted us to be more ambitious when it comes to the european social fund plus, which is a key driver for strengthening the social dimension, investing in people and promoting employment. i wanted to see it in 2023, the european parliament making the political call for the investment in children and young people by supporting additional allocation to child guarantee, by supporting the social dialogue. not all these requests have been, right now, put together, but i still believe that this is important for the european parliament. i hope that in the context of the revision of the mff, we can keep our ambitions and ask for more resources to invest in people and mitigate the increasing inequality, documented, evidence—based, support the implementation of the european care strategy and promote the upskilling and reskilling by allocating more resources to the european year of skills. we need to put the resources in what we have been right now deciding to have in 2023. we need to have a strong call for increased flexibility and sufficient resources to respond to major crisis and accelerate the process of programming so that in 2023 we start finally, in all member states, the implementation of 2021–2027 mff funding. we need the member states to spend all available resources for people. we cannot afford to waste more time in not spending the money that we have, for the well—being of our citizens. thank you all, especially to my colleague nicolae ştefănuță, for all the work.
thank you, i remind my colleagues that it is not permitted to display material in the chamber.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to stress two points. first, the multiannual european financial framework that we adopted in 2020 was not designed to deal with the successive crises we face: pandemic, war, high inflation, high energy prices, refugees, food insecurity and humanitarian crisis. we have a budget flexibility that is allowed, but it's not enough. and so i think we have to find a new balance between the predictability of resources on the one hand and the union's ability to intervene financially on time. that is why we need to focus now on a revision of the multiannual financial framework and finding that delicate balance that needs to be achieved in the budget. i think for the next period we need to invest and invest in young people and their skills, in industrial transition and social inclusion. secondly, i would like to point out that we are at the end of 2022 and many member states have still not adopted the operational programmes for cohesion or the strategic plans for agriculture and often, it is the same member states that complain that the european union does not help its citizens enough. i would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that it is not only the responsibility of the union but also of the member states to ensure that european money can reach european citizens.
mr president, today is a very special day for me. it is the last time i stand here on this stage - the most democratic, liberal, representative, pluralist stage, not only of europe but of all humanity - to comment on the 2023 budget. i have been on this stage for eight years, really exporting the efforts of the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. i would like to thank the commission for its cooperation and for the support it has given me over the years, starting with the chairman of the committee on budgetary control. i would also like to express the support and cooperation of my colleagues from the european people's party, in particular my dear colleague and coordinator, josé manuel fernandes, and to thank each and every one of them in particular in the committee on budgetary control. but i want to take this opportunity to highlight the enormous efforts made and to stress that the european union and the european parliament are very fortunate because at the helm of the european union budget is the dear commissioner johannes hahn, who is really making a major contribution to the realisation of the european union's vision. i would like to thank you very much, mr president, for all your cooperation. unfortunately, this is my last speech here, but my new duties and my new position at the european court of auditors will give me the opportunity and the opportunity to contribute to the visions of the european union and the european parliament.
i left you a few segments since this was your last speech. but i know you will quite often in this house, so i wish you many happy returns.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is a tremendous power in our budget, and together with the member states we can definitely make a difference for ordinary people. but then we have to be able to prioritize and that determines whose side we are on. inequality continues to plague our continent, and we must not allow those who are already disadvantaged to stand back in this crisis as well. because the rich can always afford the butter. the eu has an important role to play. joint energy investment, research they will facilitate further. but it takes time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. with a new swedish government making deals on castles, i'm worried to say the least. the zeal to reduce job security and to insure the sick comes before helping ordinary people. the "castle government" is for its own. in order to keep society together, everyone must be helped out of the crisis in both sweden and the eu.
mr president, commissioner, the debate we are having today, which we repeat every year, is certainly relevant, interesting and aligns the interests of the european parliament and, with it, the representation of the citizens. but it is also true that in these debates we always miss the structural changes we must make to the union's budget, especially after we have issued hundreds of millions of euros in debt. a debt we have to repay in the coming years. and here the debate on budgets is entwined with the discussion on own resources. some own resources are on the way: there are legislative initiatives, hopefully in trilogue briefly, to raise that funding to enable us to pay off the debt. but there are others that are still pending. some of them are: the digital tax, which is in the air after the oecd agreements; the need to review some form of taxation in the single market, linked to the oecd agreement as well; and perhaps also the solidarity contributions from the energy sector which we have approved, which we have promoted through this commission and the council, and which we should, in some way, help to consolidate in the community budget.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, rapporteurs, i would like to thank you for your report. the budget for each year is the most important political document we adopt and must at the same time follow the vision, developments and also respond to the current situations that arise. the year 2023 is certainly an unpredictable one, one that will surely be filled with many surprises. it is therefore right that the budget we are preparing should be flexible to a certain extent and respond to these challenges posed by the war in ukraine. firstly, to help ukraine in its fight against the aggressor, and secondly, to help the countries which have taken in refugees as a result of the ukrainian war, while at the same time, throughout europe, to remedy the consequences of that war. we know the problem of the energy crisis, which creates energy poverty, deprivation of people, causes a decline in economic power, the competitiveness of our economy. that's why we need to find answers. inflation is a particular problem. but, of course, in the face of all these challenges, we must also be careful to preserve the so-called classic policies, such as cohesion policy and agricultural policy. these are the policies that best meet the two principles of solidarity and subsidiarity. and these two politicians, people feel. we must therefore simplify these policies and ensure that these funds are better used in the future.
mr president, as vice—president in charge of parliament’s budget, i would like to reaffirm our political will to negotiate constructively with other european institutions to reach a budget that can respond to our political priorities in these challenging times. but as commissioner hahn rightly said, the budgetary cuts proposed by the council don’t even respect its own political priorities and this is not acceptable. from the point of view of parliament’s budget, this context of war and high inflation implies the need to respond to the increase of expenses due to inflation, in particular the rise of energy costs; the need to strengthen our capacity to respond to the increasing cybersecurity challenges, including additional specialised human resources, and the need to be prudent in our building policy. that’s why i hope the amendment to this effect can be adopted. finally, i hope that the budget, in its final version, can respond to these needs, meeting citizens’ expectations.
mr president, commissioner hahn, it is clear that all hopes are in the european union budget at this time of great trial for the european union. after the health crisis, we have this war that has put and is putting european security to the test. obviously, war wasn't enough. we have this energy crisis. i appeal to you, commissioner, because you understand very well the challenges facing the countries in the immediate neighbourhood of the european union. you were recently in chisinau, you assured president maia sandu of the support of the european union. the republic of moldova, ukraine, georgia and the other states need the support of the european union to overcome all these challenges coming from moscow, to keep them in its sphere of influence. we have an obligation to maintain the same pace of financial support for these states.
member of the commission. – mr president, we have well noted the different positions expressed by the honourable members of this house and also by the council. the commission services are examining thoroughly all the amendments proposed by the parliament, together with those proposed by the council. to facilitate the upcoming negotiations, the commission will present a detailed assessment of the amendments proposed by the parliament and of the council position in the so—called letter of executability. we will send this letter shortly after tomorrow’s vote on the parliament’s amendments. our three institutions succeeded over the past years to agree on many ground—breaking files that have changed the union’s budgetary and financial landscape. i believe that successful negotiation requires both institutions to set clear priorities, including negative ones, so that we can focus our discussions in the conciliation on a limited number of programmes where meaningful adjustments could be made. my team and i are at your disposal, like ever, and ready to facilitate the work of the rapporteurs and the presidency during the conciliation procedure.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president. honourable members, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, i listened really carefully to arguments raised during this interesting debate and i will inform my colleagues in the council subsequently. i am convinced that the debate has certainly helped to clarify the european parliament’s position and your priorities. and let me assure you that the council will do its best to engage in a constructive dialogue allowing us to come to an agreement on the budget for 2023 within the deadlines foreseen by the treaty.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, thanks for being here today in the house of european democracy. thanks to all the colleagues who have supported a reasonable, strong budget that responds to the european citizens. domnule președinte, noi am plecat la război acum câțiva ani cu un arc și cu săgeți. dar noi trăim în epoca în care suntem atacați cu drone, în care lumea a luat foc, în care avem cinci crize consecutive: pandemia, inflația, energia, noi state candidate, toate aceste lucruri trebuie să găsească un răspuns astăzi în ceea ce facem noi. trebuie să schimbăm armele pe care le avem în dotare, nu să dăm vina pe săgeți. în acest moment avem păreri instituționale diferite pe buget. consiliului i se pare că trebuie să facem economii pentru a avea bani rezervați pentru crize viitoare. însă eu mă întreb care criză viitoare, că deja avem cinci crize pe care le-am menționat. ce să le spunem oamenilor: mai puneți o geacă peste sau o să le spunem că uniunea europeană încearcă să vă ajute acum? noi, parlamentul, credem că trebuie să răspundem acum și de aceea punem acei bani pe care-i mai avem, puțini cum sunt, îi punem spre politicile care contează pentru oameni, pentru uniunea europeană și suntem uniți în asta. am avut în comisia pentru buget un vot de 31 la zero. nici măcar euroscepticii domnului kuhn, care spunea că uniunea europeană nu ar trebui să mai aibă bani și să acționeze, nici măcar ei n-au îndrăznit să voteze contra. și chiar vreau să îl întreb pe domnul kuhn, care nu mai este în sală, evident, cum ar arăta europa dacă noi nu am reacționa? costul inacțiunii nu este oare mai mare? și atunci, domnule președinte, și atunci, domnule comisar, eu vă încurajez să găsim împreună soluțiile care trebuie, să găsim soluțiile acum pentru criza politică în care ne aflăm. pentru că lupta este una dreaptă, este una dreaptă, este pentru oameni, este pentru democrație și este pentru libertate.
mr president, commissioner, since 2015, several member states, including france, have reintroduced internal border controls in connection with terrorism and the war in syria. but these checks, supposed to be temporary, have been going on for seven years. this is inadequate and the continued controls put at risk the smooth functioning of the schengen area, which is one of the union's main acquis. furthermore, indefinite detention is contrary to eu law. this was recalled by the court of justice in its judgment in austria last april. there is therefore a very clear message to be sent to the national authorities to comply with the law and to stop these controls, the effectiveness of which has never been really assessed. secondly, it would be useful to know why the commission, in seven years, has not taken any infringement action. as rapporteur on the revision of the schengen borders code, i will try to help to ensure that reintroductions of internal border controls are strictly controlled in order to return to the original spirit of the schengen area, namely that of an area of free movement.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european court of justice has confirmed that the european union's main achievement is the creation of an area without internal borders in which people can move freely. the reintroduction of border control at internal borders should remain an exceptional and proportionate measure, to be taken only as a last resort. if we want the union to remain important to our citizens, it is essential to preserve the schengen system. we have been saying for years that in order to have peace and security within the internal borders of schengen, we must protect our external borders. hungary has been effectively guaranteeing the protection of the eu's external borders for a long time, with considerable human and financial expenditure. we do this in solidarity with the european union as a whole. but we're not getting support, we're getting criticism. this year's border patrol is also extraordinary. the most powerful year for illegal immigration since 2015. the european union must recognise that in times of crisis, outward protection and inward cohesion are needed.
mr president, your excellences, the distinguished commissioner, mrs ylva johansson, i was sent here by the romanians, and they know best what it is like to be at the schengen gate, despite the rules that would allow you to travel without restrictions. my country, romania, has been humiliated and unjust for 11 years. whatever decision we take, whatever issue we have on the table, the interest of the citizen must be higher than that of the group, especially when this citizen claims the violation of the values of the european union. when you impede freedom of movement and invoke superior reasons without bringing arguments, you are nothing but a trickster in a suit. and people sense that and they stop believing in politicians and the eurosystem. i'll give you one more reason why euroscepticism is growing. the energy bills are the consequence of the european union turning a blind eye to putin's abuses and accepting his poisoned gift, which was not a gift at all, it cost dearly. and that's because the tricksters in the suit didn't care about the cost of energy and its consequences. we must be able to look all european citizens in the eye. can we all do that? who can look the romanians in the eye who have been denied access to schengen for 11 years? today's vote in parliament is a positive signal, but not enough. romanians have the right to full freedom, just like all europeans. there must be no first-class europeans and second-class europeans. the european family must not remain at the stage of discourse.
mr president, commissioner johansson, never in this parliament have we had so much discussion about schengen: 'in trouble', 'under pressure', 'in very bad shape'... we have reason to be concerned because schengen is identified as the most valuable asset of the european construction. it means free movement of people, without internal borders. and what happened? that a succession of crisis episodes, and particularly the pandemic, have shown that the states are simply violating schengen, which has long ceased to be an agreement, as it is often called. no, it is european law. there is a schengen border code. and this debate on the court of justice judgment shows that one member state in particular has violated the schengen borders code vis-à-vis other member states. and it has done so in a discriminatory way towards its citizens. and this reminds us that the conditions for the interposition of internal borders must be objective, must be properly communicated to the commission and coordinated by the commission and, moreover, must be limited in time. and that's exactly what the sentence says. we are not surprised because we have said this in this european parliament time and again. the conclusion is therefore clear: we need to draw the lessons, we need schengen governance to match this great asset of european construction and, above all, we need not just a fully operational schengen, but a schengen as a whole, including croatia, romania and bulgaria at once before the end of the year.
mr president, commissioner johansson, mr bartoš, the european union has in its very name the idea which has been at the basis of this economic and political construction: the union. there may be times when it may seem that it is simply better to be alone, each on his own. but this pandemic that we've been through has shown us that the solution is unity. the nextgenerationeu programme is further proof that together we stand a better chance of meeting the challenges we face. the war in ukraine comes to accentuate this demonstration. without the support of all states that value democracy and rule of law, ukraine would not have been able to stand up to russia and hold them, day in and day out. all the member states of the european union, with the signing of the treaties, signed up for unity, for the rule of law, for a union in which it is true, we have challenges, but which brings us more benefits. the controls at the union's internal borders and the exclusion from the schengen area of a country like romania, which has met all the technical criteria, only serve to cancel this much-needed unity. as the european court of justice has ruled, internal border controls must end. i'm going now.
mr president, when we came from glasgow, we all said we have saved the 1.5 degrees. but did we? because we also said after glasgow, then this year should be a crucial year to raise our ambition. what has happened? australia hasn’t done it, but not so much have we seen of a raised ambition. but even maybe more problematic is that also the consistency in our policies is at stake. and here i really would like to call upon the european commission, if we are going to do a boost of repower eu, can we make sure this is not again another financing of fossils, because we see now europe running for a lot of lng at the cost of the lng price for the rest of the world. so we really need to take stock and really make sure that the next repower eu is a renewable-only repower eu. but what we’ve also seen is that the climate impacts are stronger and more intense than ever before. look only at pakistan and this means loss and damage will be a key point on the agenda. and here too, the council has left. please stop on this bureaucratic language saying we support a dialogue. we need more than support on a dialogue. we need a system to really address loss and damage. we need more than a dialogue. we need action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. what we're seeing here again, i think, is not so much a climate crisis, because the climate on this earth has been around for five billion years and has been changing for that long, but we're seeing a crisis of reason. what we are witnessing here is once again an attempt - a naturally misguided attempt - by the european union to save the climate, the world climate. this attempt will fail because it will remain a one-man operation, even at the un level, because the main players will not play along. you can bet on that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that the greens do not care about that, but they are not very much involved in their core issue, in this debate. these are the crises that people in the country are experiencing. i don't think it's funny. greens may find it funny, and people experience it. it is our very task, our very task, to help people and to do something for people, so that people can live on their income. we must ensure that this irresponsible energy policy we are witnessing here does not go further in the wrong direction. the effects are already being felt in germany. there is a government with green participation which continues to decide on the extension of three nuclear power stations. this will not be the end, but these nuclear mills will continue to run, and not just until april next year, but beyond. well done, my green ones. you did well. the main effect of this exaggerated energy policy is that we are destroying our economy in europe and, of course, jobs. you're all gonna get your heads blown off.
mr president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, every time we say these words no one will be left behind, at least one person will die from lack of water or food. at least one family is losing their life's work because the floodwaters have swallowed their home. at least one farmer is left without a crop after drought cracks the ground and burns his crops. the climate crisis has already hit, and the ones who will suffer are our children. it's that simple. what does the future hold for them? what's left for them to live on? let's not deviate from our common and international goals and let's not let other crises put climate chaos in second place. my colleague in germany from the far-right party said the bill is high. yes, the bill is high, but the bill for inaction is simply catastrophic. it means existence itself, it means denying a future to our children, and that's a bill we can't leave behind, to say that our children don't deserve to have a future. so i want to encourage you, commissioner, to represent our children at the sharm el-sheikh summit, to fight for them, to fight for their climate and for the future of this planet.
mr president, commissioner, i have been in ukraine since the first days of the war launched by putin. i've been to many places in the last few months, just to be with people who are in danger. i brought into my home six children and three mothers who had fled the war. i know very well what is going on there, but i think we are putting the question wrong, because the tyrant putin started this war by trying to sanction the ukrainians precisely because they want to become members of the european union. i want to get rid of this pressure that moscow constantly puts on us and i think it is essential to understand that the seven million ukrainian citizens did not leave their country for good, and today tens of thousands of people are simply being killed because they had this european dream. i think we should understand the essence of this war and not be so reserved in supporting it.
madam president, i am glad that this debate is taking place, because i believe that we have an obligation to think more proactively, more maturely and more involvedly, because this is an issue that already deserves a european response. advances in technology today allow us to create tools that can help us to protect children much better. and i think in europe today, when we hear about missing children, children who are victims of human trafficking, children who are sexually abused, we are shaken. that is why we need this european response, tools with which we can protect them, identify them much more quickly and clearly, dismantle all these networks that unfortunately create drama, because these innocent beings are victims of these groups that we must annihilate and, of course, protect the children.
madam president, beslan, dubrovka, grozny, anna politkovskaya, nemtsov, litvinenko, the skripals, georgia, most probably smolensk, then crimea, donbas, luhansk and now the whole territory of ukraine, including nuclear power plants. do we need further evidence? i wholeheartedly support denomination of russian federation as a terrorist state, despite difficulties that we have to work on.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! i'm very pleased that today in this debate we are discussing whether russia is a state sponsor of terrorism or - as we just heard - a terrorist state. because this is an example of how far our parliament has come. because in this house, last term, two terms ago, there were many more friends of russia or very naive people who thought that russia was a country like any other. that's changed. i'll take that. although, of course, there is a terrible price that we all pay, free europe, for the political class in europe to mature to recognize russia, as american president ronald reagan (i know not everyone likes him) as an evil empire. that's what it is. it's good that we're almost all speaking with one voice on this. the more we stand together, the more russia loses. that's the point.
madam president, madam commissioner, putin has blood on his hands, he is the main culprit for the massacre in ukraine, for the invasion launched against a people who have done nothing to provoke him. it is responsible for the multiple crises facing the european continent, starting with the security crisis, the humanitarian crisis and, of course, the energy crisis. this man has taken inspiration from stalin's theses to put europe in an impossible situation today, but it is essential that we remain united, that we act against this tyrant with all the means at our disposal. russia must understand that it can no longer alone threaten and hold under continuous blackmail and pressure free nations, and it is essential that we support the ukrainians in this unjust war that the murderer putin has unleashed.
madam vice-president, commissioner johansson, ladies and gentlemen, i am delighted to have this important debate today in the european parliament's plenary. what's happening in the ukraine is terror. what's been happening in ukraine for over eight months, to see millions of people fleeing their homes, to see tens of thousands of people dead, to see hundreds of children killed, to see these days an energy system, of a peaceful country, that is being destroyed, is terror and that is terrorism. and i am glad to see that the european union is saying things as they are and that we in this institution are doing so. because for too many years russia has been speculating on our weaknesses. we must stand with ukraine and we must condemn russia firmly. russia, at the moment, is a terrorist state.
madam president, i am absolutely appalled by the labels that some politicians, who are extremely limited in their ability to see what is happening around us, put on them, because it is unacceptable to sanction an entire nation, a nation of 22 million citizens, just for a small agenda, a narrow internal agenda, and from this point of view i think that the message that the european parliament has sent today is essential, by which we are asking for something very clear. european solidarity has often been talked about, but it cannot work in one direction, because it is fundamental to respect the treaty on european union, and romania, as a country that can manage, and has demonstrated this, the european union's border in an unprecedented crisis at the eastern border, must and deserves to enter the schengen area this year.
madam president, today i voted with confidence in support of this resolution, for romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area. we voted because we, romanian citizens, are european citizens. because we have the right to move freely and unhindered throughout the european union. we voted for the right not to wait in long lines at airports or at road borders to go through additional checks. we voted for the right of goods coming from our countries to move and not to stand for hours or even days at the door of the schengen area. we are not asking for a gift, we are not asking for a favour, we are asking for a right that is ours, because we have been a european country for 15 years, and for 11 years romania and bulgaria have fulfilled all the schengen conditions, and i hope that at least now, after all this time, at the jai council on 8 december, romania and bulgaria will be accepted into the schengen area.
madam president, the victims of russia's war of aggression and the brutal attacks of the last few days are, of course, the citizens of ukraine, but throughout europe we are suffering the consequences of this war and putin will exploit those consequences. we see how the most vulnerable classes, but also the middle classes in our countries, are suffering from the rise in the price of energy, of fuel, from the rise in interest rates which, in my country, portugal, is a very serious problem, from the increase in poverty, which has also become a fact in portugal. and the question is: what do the big european countries do? the socialist, green, liberal and german governments, these three parties which claim to be european solidarity, are putting together a package of eur 200 billion for germany alone, distorting competition and competition in the internal market. and at the same time france, which president macron says is europe's greatest friend, continues to boycott the construction of energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and the european continent. and this is not european solidarity, this is the opposite of the european spirit, and here renew has to say whether it is with mr macron or against mr macron in this anti-european attitude.
madam president, mr vice-president šefčovič, i would like to welcome (because there have been some announcements that are important for everyone by the european commission, at least on the sources) namely that we will have a common gas purchasing mechanism, that we will have some sort of mechanism to prevent speculation and excessive volatility in electricity and gas prices, that we will also have something about taxing exceptional profits, but i want you to convey a message to mrs president ursula von der leyen: she doesn't talk about inflation, she doesn't talk about price increases. and the last time i checked, 80 percent of inflation comes from rising energy prices, and the measure that had to be taken was to not have these exceptional profits. and this measure must be taken now, because it is useless or good that we tax exceptional income, exceptional profits, but if they happen every month, for a year, how can we call them exceptional? hasn 't that become the rule and someone paying this kind of exceptional profits ? whether it's a bakery closing its doors, or a steel mill, because some 40 million tons of steel capacity in the european union has been shut down, doesn't that destroy the economy, and inflation on the other side? the idea of this measure must be taken now, before it's too late.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, solutions to effectively tackle the urgent challenges of the present have been on the table for several months. we have been talking for some time about the gas price ceiling, the decoupling of prices and the reform of the electricity market, but the commission and the council are having difficulty in adopting these proposals. we have the recipes, we have the tools, but we lack the spirit, the spirit that animated the fight against covid, the political will that, just two years ago, pushed europe to take the path of solidarity. it is not the resources that are lacking, but a policy that can look to the future and give concrete answers. faced with families struggling to pay their energy bills, faced with companies forced to stop production, faced with mayors facing the new poverty, good intentions are not enough, we need the unity that has made us win the pandemic and that tomorrow will allow us to win the selfishness that, despite us, risks being more dangerous than war.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. war in ukraine, energy crisis and the highest rate of price increase in decades. we are all witnessing phenomena in europe that seemed to have been overcome long ago, where many had hoped and believed that this would never happen again: war, supply shortages, high inflation. policies must act in this situation, and it is more important than ever that they act correctly in this complex situation. the eu's decision-makers are all driven by the impulse to tackle problems with lots of cash. but in the present situation, this impulse must be resisted. it would be a grave mistake to try to generate growth at any cost in times of runaway inflation. i strongly warn against the eu's introduction of further multi-billion-dollar debt-financed programmes to pump even more money, with even more debt, into the market. this is the wrong way to go. this will only increase inflation further. we need high interest rates fast. the united states has rightly recognized this. the best medicine is often the bitterest. we must now accept a certain recession in order to bring down inflation as quickly as possible in the interests of millions of consumers in europe. only then, afterwards, can it go up again.
madam president, vice-president šefčovič, minister bek, ahead of the council summit. i would like to praise the mediation efforts of president michel between armenia and azerbaijan. it is a good example where the european council plays a role in providing a platform for warring parties and supports the dialogue towards sustainable peace. unfortunately, similar european efforts of preventive diplomacy are lacking in bosnia and herzegovina. actions such as high-level mediation are needed to stabilise the situation and conclude the final agreement on the necessary electoral reform. the recent commission recommendation labelled it as the ‘utmost priority’, and so it is for eu member state croatia and for european peace and security in general. we need to find to find this just solution for the electoral law that will take into account all three communities and other citizens of a country that went through a terrible war and is still the living consequences of this tragedy. we should not let our transatlantic partners do our job. let us take our responsibilities and not leave this country up to an experiment and too cold winter for all of those who are left beyond the borders of european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let's bring the bills down. let's get these bills down. that should be the headline of the next council meeting. what will help? the commission has also proposed a number of measures to reduce prices and curb speculation. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the price of electricity is not reduced by the use of alternative benchmarks. we need to decouple the prices of gas and electricity, at least as long as the supply crisis continues. we need price limits - yes, of course - for minimum quotas of energy. this combines reliability for consumers, businesses and energy-intensive industries with incentives to save. we need the funding from random profits. this is a way of protecting the most vulnerable. these groups need to be assured that they will not be cut off from gas and electricity during the energy crisis. it is a building block of european solidarity to continue the sure instrument beyond december 2022 and to extend the resilience of european unemployment insurance. joint procurement and infrastructure expansion, closing the gaps, being h2-ready - these are the answers.
madam president, tomorrow marks exactly one year since the council met in october 2021. priorities at that meeting were the deployment of vaccines, the recovery of travel and the recognition of certificates for future health emergencies. it's only been a year, but it seems like there's a world of difference: the war in ukraine, the economic and social situation... reality has changed a lot and it's changed very fast. the only thing that is repeated on this list of priorities is the rise in energy prices, which a year ago was a nascent threat and which today is a reality that worries millions of european citizens as winter approaches. the time has come, vice-president, for pragmatism, and that means giving answers now, not just promising them; it means putting results before ideology and, above all, putting the welfare of european citizens before big ideas or ambitions. we have been in an energy crisis for almost a year and many things have been proposed, but the bill has not stopped rising. we have spent a lot of money on energy subsidies that have gone anywhere but to the homes of european citizens. it is time for decisions to be made and for us to really show results.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. since the beginning of russia's brutal war of aggression against ukraine, we have been asked: what measures can we take to keep energy affordable in europe and to keep our homes warm this coming winter? i think our people and our businesses expect us to give them concrete answers. i am glad that the commission is finally putting forward proposals to alleviate the burden on consumers and households. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the gas supply. finally, he's eight months late. but if we want to prevent over-competition in gas purchases between member states, we need joint action at european level. the same applies to the cap on the price of gas. but what is also very, very urgent now is to relieve our farms. the aim is to strengthen competitiveness. the commission president has made a number of proposals on this today. i think it's important to put everything to the test. we are now in a situation where we are living in a kind of war economy, and that is why it is important to do the important things first and to tackle this or that dossier and issue perhaps not until next year. prioritizing is what is necessary. we've lost enough time already, and i'm thinking again: our people deserve answers from us.
madam president, i have seen the commission's proposals on gas price caps and gas group purchases and, if these measures are implemented, i believe they are an important step forward in responding to the putin-induced crisis. once again, we see that member states are slowly beginning to understand that individualism does not work in crisis situations and that it is important to be solidarity-based. this solidarity cannot be decreed by regulations alone. we have to feel it, learn it and apply it from now on, every time situations like this are in front of us, and i think we have to do more than just limit ourselves to the european union. we have to think about our neighbors, too. our solidarity must be demonstrated not only with ukraine, but also with the republic of moldova and the balkan area. not just because of the sense of connection with these countries, but also because it's in our interest not to have crises there as well. and we also have to think about the gas that is used by certain industrial sectors. i am thinking first of all of the production of fertilisers for agriculture. in the short term, at least, we must not let this gas crisis create a new food crisis.
mr president, the laundering is daily and structural, but we will not defeat it with slogans or with moral superiority in the face of their increasingly sophisticated speeches. we need to start dismantling their arguments one by one to demonstrate, through data, that they are wrong in the debates they feel comfortable with - immigration, religion, security, taxation, etc. we have to renew our argument because they did. but while we denounce hate speech, there are states that contribute to the daily and structural whitewashing of this speech. spain is full of streets and squares named after franco or the francoists. in madrid they decided to dedicate a street to the blue division, the spanish volunteer army that went to fight alongside hitler. the founder of the fascist party is still buried in a state mausoleum. the illegal francisco franco foundation and its political heirs have governance agreements with popular parties. the problem is not just the far right. the problem is that what promotes it, including tolerance or even metaphors about the european paradise and the jungle of the rest of the world.
mr president, strangely enough, we never have a debate in this house about the dangers of the extreme left for our societies. i could tell you a lot about how extreme left communism devastated my country, romania. in sweden, the government was formed yesterday, while in italy it has not even been formed yet. nonetheless, the left in this house wants to put a quarantine stamp on a majority that emerged in free and democratic elections. colleagues, we can certainly have ideological debates, but we cannot alter the vote of citizens. this would not be democracy anymore, but an ideological dictatorship. perform better in the elections, not in making outcasts of the winners. the centre right was always careful in choosing its partners and, more importantly, in keeping its coalitions on a firmly european track. i am certain this will be the case in italy and in sweden this time around too. today’s debate is not timely at all, but it gives us the opportunity to stay where we stay. we need the centre right and christian democrats. we state clearly that the left has no monopoly on what europe is, on what europeans can think about it, and on how europe should look.
mr president, just as there are people who think that populism is too general a formula and requires national conclusions, there are those who say that the extreme right also requires a detailed examination, that it is not the same one that reaches the government in italy as the one that does in sweden. and yet they have common features: first, a reactionary nationalism, prone to engage in cultural and identity wars and therefore directly opposed to the diversity which is the founding value of the european union; second, its rabidly anti-litarist character, which pits it against both feminism and movements which it considers progressive, because they are founded precisely on the exaltation of the value of equality; but, above all, the most worrying feature, because it leads to the conclusion that it is downright anti-european, is that it practices a language that entangles itself with hate speech, which history shows to be prone to hate crime. we have discussed in this sitting the infamous murder in bratislava by a right-wing gunman of two people who were discriminated against on the grounds of their sexual orientation. so it must be said that when a crime is committed against immigrants, it is not another ideology, it is always the extreme right, and that is directly anti-european. and so the conclusion is clear: any form of political collaboration with the far right cannot be whitewashed, because it ends up being a form of complicity in hate crimes. hate crimes that can in no way be underestimated or trivialized.
mr. president, reports from american and european intelligence services published by the press tell us that russia has invested in recent years at least 300 million dollars in countries on three continents to influence our politics and public policies. these are tiny numbers, just the tip of the iceberg. there are russia's agents and there are the so-called useful idiots of the kremlin, who make the agenda of russian propaganda gratuitous and devastating to democracy. any attempt to legitimize an extremist party or politician by any of the european political families has costs that are hard to imagine. we already have extremist and ultraconservative factions in europe in government. look around. we're talking about those for whom social rights don't exist, for whom race superiority is a belief, for whom diversity is paid for by death. the battle of the next decade is for values, rights and freedoms. either we win it, or we're out of democracy. the austrians, the melonists and the swedish democrats and others like them should never make the political agenda of europe and our countries. when that happens we lose peace, freedom, democracy, balance. i mean everything.
mr president, dear colleagues, what is this debate really about? it’s not about the whitewashing of anybody; it’s really about the intellectual terror waged by the european left against everybody who dares to disagree with them. they would label as an extremist anybody who is against islamist migration, who defends the traditional family or defends children from lgbti propaganda. it shows how hysterical and intolerant the socialists, the liberals and the greens have become. they now openly disrespect the democratic decision of the people. the swedes or italians elect a conservative government, and here they are unleashing a vicious attack against them, just like hunting dogs. let me be clear: being pro-european does not mean being left wing, and it is certainly not the prerogative of the left to define what constitutes pro-european or who is a good conservative or christian democrat. this debate, by the way, is also an illustration of the failed political strategy of the epp. mr weber, who is curiously absent from the chamber now, has manoeuvred his party into a spectacular dead end. this is what happens when you give up your principles in the hope from the left of, i don’t know, positions or soft treatment by the press. they will never be satisfied with you. you should not follow this route.
your excellences, the racist, anti-minority, anti-european and pro-putin discourse did not come about as a result of the pandemic and inflation. the pandemic and the energy bill were just the last straw in this anti-european war. if we know how to talk to the citizens, the far right will only grow in the short term. i'm worried about something else. the far right is sometimes accepted into political dialogue after its actors claim to renounce pro-russian discourse and radical elements. this flying under the radar is extremely dangerous. and it's even more dangerous when the traditional parties take over the radical discourse, hoping to garner votes. the solution is not here. the solution is to help people get through this difficult time. at the same time, we have to show them the sources of funding of the far right and they will find that the politicians who profit from the crisis are just actors in a puppet theater. europeans need to know that. the verification of bank transfers should not be limited to suspicions of terrorism or money laundering. on behalf of the epp delegation to romania, i ask for the sources of funding of the european far right to be verified. the eu budget can no longer contribute to the salaries of putin's puppets.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner on the enlargement package. the biggest news of this year’s enlargement package is the welcoming recommendation to grant bosnia and herzegovina candidate status. i appreciate the call in the report that it is an utmost priority to conclude the electoral reform according to the constitutional and international court’s decision, and to accommodate all three constituent people, namely croats, bosniaks and serbs and other minorities in its joint european future. since the terrible war of aggression against ukraine started, the eu showed that it will not leave its eastern borders unprotected and it granted candidate status to ukraine and moldova. candidate status for bosnia and herzegovina means that we also care for the security on our southern border. enlargement was, is and will be more than anything else a peace and security project. therefore, i call on all the countries in the western balkans to carefully read these reports as constructive criticism from a friend, from family, and to do the necessary homework to catch up on this momentum. at this moment, all european capitals are focusing on enlargement. hesitation would be detrimental for the future of western balkan countries. our doors are open and it is cold out there for those who are not part of the family.
madam president, if the enlargement process in the western balkans is to be successful, there must also be an improvement in the freedom of the media. according to the report by reporters without borders, the situation in albania has worsened and the country has moved from 83rd to 103rd place out of 180 countries. bosnia and herzegovina also fell from 58th to 67th place, while serbia is in 79th place. unfortunately, greece and bulgaria are setting a bad example in terms of media freedom. greece, with its mitsotakis policy, has fallen from 70th to 108th place and has become the worst in the european union. bulgaria has moved up from 112 to 91 but still has a long way to go. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in the field of media freedom, including the introduction of a new media freedom law in the eu, the introduction of a new media freedom law in the eu, and the introduction of a new media freedom law in the eu.
president, commissioner, some problems will go away by themselves, and some things need attention and action. good governance stands or falls with the ability to distinguish between the two. the political objections to the accession of albania, montenegro, north macedonia and serbia to the union are disappearing under pressure from putin's misconduct. the additional requirements proposed by mr borrell are unwise. it's causing unnecessary delay, and we can't afford that. how can serbia comply with the eu's foreign and security policy if it does not exist at all? what foreign policy is mr borrell talking about? the commission's, germany's, hungary's or perhaps even poland's? while political obstacles are being removed, legal and administrative obstacles are appearing on the horizon. the commission is rapidly drawing up new legislation for the green deal and crisis management, which makes it difficult for candidate countries to introduce all the laws and regulations before accession becomes a reality. so it's important that we move. many transitional arrangements will then have to be made, and this leads to complexity and hassle. therefore , i ask the members ... (the president interrupts the speaker) ... with due attention and haste to approach ... (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the russian aggression against ukraine has presented an unfortunate but good opportunity for the balkan governments to reconsider and reassess moscow's influence in their region. it is also a good opportunity for us at european level to rethink the dynamics of our relations with these countries, especially in terms of the clear support they need on their way to joining our community of values and politics. and i would like to take this opportunity to welcome the commission's recommendation by the council to grant candidate country status to bosnia and herzegovina. it is a very strong signal for the whole area, and our commitment to the process of european and euro-atlantic integration, supported democratically by the people and demanded by them, must be the basis for having as many concrete things as possible.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, tunisia is the country which started the arab spring, a very promising movement at the beginning, which later on, in most cases, ended up in vain. i still believe, however, that tunisia is one exception, a country which started to build genuine parliamentary democracy with a full-blooded spectrum of well-defined political parties. of course, it is a country which faces extremely difficult economic circumstances and it is surrounded by complicated neighbours like, for instance, unstable libya and also hit by an unstable security situation and also a country literally next door to us and therefore important. in two months, tunisia is facing parliamentary elections, hopefully stabilising the situation, and we in the eu should therefore just now carefully calibrate what we say and what we do. i believe that we should avoid any interference, reminding about some bad old habits of patronising the others, because that definitely would not be helpful for mutual trust. i visited tunisia several times. i was networking their political parties. i have full trust in their human potential and ability. so please, let’s not spoil the game. let’s be sensitive and patient and let’s continue to build an equal and fair partnership with tunisia.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, since the advent of democracy in tunisia in 2011, the optimism and the many hopes that had been raised by the tunisian revolution have given way, it must be said, and colleagues have said so, to a form of scepticism, concern, or even disappointment. today, everyone is aware of the risks facing this young democracy with which we have such close friendships. in this country, which has been hit hard by the health and social crisis, the paralysis of the assembly of people's representatives, but also the indifference of a political class born of the revolution, had created in tunisian opinion a demand for order and stability. that's why we were so restrained at the time of the events of 2021. but what happened since then? the economic slump remains, as do inequalities, inflation and the public deficit. and the presidential power, it must be said, has been considerably tightened. there was the constitutional episode, a referendum with a very low turnout, a form of resignation among the people and a constitution which, it must be admitted, is far from the democratic standards that the hopes of the revolution could have made us expect. there have also been measures that restrict freedom of expression and political pluralism, with a largely contested electoral law. what can we as europeans do about it? of course, not to interfere in the parliamentary elections. of course, not to bring up sanctions would be absurd. i think that tunisia should be reminded of its international commitments and that dialogue should be continued with civil society, women's rights movements, associations and trade unions, because you know how central a role the ugtt plays in this country. what is happening in tunisia concerns us because we are convinced that the future of europe is also at stake on the other side of the mediterranean. so let us maintain this bond of friendship but be vigilant and demanding, a firm but demanding partner.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, i am deeply saddened by the trajectory of tunisia, a country for which i deeply care. it was once defined as the lighthouse of democracy in north africa and in the muslim world. this light is now dimmed, and since president saied’s decision to suspend and then to close the parliament, we have assisted to the painful process of dismantling the progresses achieved previously. now, the people are once again in the streets protesting against the illegal suspension of democracy, the judicial persecution of political leaders and ngo activists and the catastrophic economic and social situation with a constitution that was not shared by the large part of the population. dear colleagues, i have an appeal and a request. the appeal is for presidency saied: it is not too late to bring back tunisia on the right path. do not deprive the brave tunisian citizens for what they fought so hard for. on our side, it is time to reflect on our relationship. we helped and we must continue to help the tunisian people in the future, but our support to the government cannot be unconditional. we need to see democracy clearly coming back in tunisia, and we must be clear also with president saied. only in this way we can be a decisive player in bringing back the enticing aroma of jasmine that ten years ago led us to believe that a different path was, and is still, possible.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in any situation, but especially in the current context, aggravated by the russian invasion of ukraine, the lack of democracy within the european union, but also at its borders, is a cause for concern and, at the same time, a new opportunity for coordinated action between the european institutions and the member states. and that is the case with the events in tunisia, which i think we should not take lightly at any level, but which i think we should take constructively. of course, even at the diplomatic level, the european union often speaks with the force of example, which is essential. but i believe that we have an obligation, within the limits of our treaties, to support, especially to defend all those who are fighting democratically for freedom, prosperity and dignity. the european union has an obligation to keep the dialogue with tunisia alive and, with it, the tunisian people's hope for stability and a better future.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the european union has made some mistakes in its policy on belarus, perhaps naively, perhaps sometimes lacking some flexibility, but this is not the place and time to talk about those mistakes. today it must be said clearly that belarus has become part of putin's russia war machine, that it is making its garrisons, training grounds, railway network, also rail transport available to increase the strength of russian aggression, also to tie up ukrainian troops on the border with belarus, which obviously weakens kiev's counter-offensive in the southern and eastern direction, which is crucial for the russians. it should be said very clearly that lukashenko is not the same as putin, but today we need to threaten very strongly with sanctions, and we need to ask the belarusian opposition whether they have the same vision of foreign policy that we think they have. because i sometimes get the impression that unfortunately she has certain illusions about russia, which is what a number of her representatives unfortunately say.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. don't forget about belarus, you know. these are the words of svetlana zhichanovskaya, who spoke to us all with great conviction last week when she visited us in brussels. she is fighting with many other brave people for the freedom of her people - a people that the dictator lukashenko has held captive and disempowered for years. now he has also dragged his people into a war that is against international law. he has made belarus a staging ground and a launching pad for russia's attacks on ukraine. the regime must end its support for this war immediately. lukashenko and his lackeys are on the eu sanctions list as accomplices in war crimes. the overwhelming majority of belarusians do not want to fight against their neighbouring people. we can't slam the door on them. as the eu, we should protect the people of belarus who do not want to become cannon fodder for lukashenko and putin. we stand on the side of justice, democracy and international law. we won't forget you!
madam president, russia takes crimea, and ukraine attacks donbas; russia invades ukraine and the usa and europe send weapons to ukraine, so ukraine takes back donbas, but russia asks belarus for help and belarus deploys its armies on the border, so nato does military exercises in the war area and russia makes possible the use of nuclear weapons. where are we going to? this is the problem. this is the question i have. this plenary should represent european people, and the european people outside this room don’t want this escalation. but i didn’t listen to anyone making a proposal to stop the war, apart from someone. so my final question is, who does this plenary actually represent?
madam president, dear colleagues, since 24 february, when russia launched full-scale war against ukraine, aleksander lukashenko, an illegitimate leader of belarus, has been an accomplice to putin and russian federation. the belarusian military bases are being used by russian federation to prepare the troops for attacking ukraine’s cities, villages, ukraine people. today, putin declared martial law in illegally annexed territories of ukraine. this is yet another example that he’s running out of options. he depends more and more on the handful of cronies he has left, including dictator of belarus. though lukashenko has avoided direct military involvement in this war, his words and actions speak for themselves. he owes putin his position and has become fully dependent on russian dictate. and with that, he has basically given up the statehood of belarus. it is essential that the eu treats lukashenko regime as a co—conspirator to the crimes against ukraine people and acts accordingly by introducing even stricter sanctions against the dictator and his regime.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that with regard to the authoritarian regime in belarus, any illusion of a certain normalisation of the political situation in terms of pluralism, freedom of expression or the democratic transfer of power when the people decide has been shattered. at the moment, the only chance for the authoritarian regime in minsk to survive is to associate with the criminal regime in moscow, which is unacceptable for the european union, all the more so as the effects of this association are negative, tragic and dangerous for the citizens of belarus who are fighting for freedom. the european union has an obligation to take all legal and moral measures to prevent the direct involvement of the minsk regime in the war launched by the russians against ukraine. now is the time to act firmly and effectively. anything else will have a negative effect on us and our allies.
madam president, dear colleagues, dear guests, after the second world war in europe, a group of eight statesmen, mostly christians, came together and found ways not only how to reconcile themselves with each other, but how to bring peace to prosperity in europe. to do so, they came up with a european project founded on two pillars: safeguarding the respect of fundamental rights – and that’s how we have the council of europe now. and the other one, it is economic cooperation – and we have the european communities. the european community later became the european union, which from an economic cooperation between sovereign states, became a political union, which currently is undermining, unfortunately, the sovereignty of our nations. the european political community now proposed by macron, seems to want to replace the other pillar of the european project, mainly safeguarding the fundamental rights of all the people. europe is not a political community, but a mosaic of free and sovereign nations and states. if we want to defend and protect the rights of all of our citizens, we should keep it so.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. access to healthy food is not a luxury, it's a human right. and it remains our obligation to do everything we can to ensure that this right is enjoyed by all people in the world and that no one has to suffer from hunger or even die from it. and we were actually on the right track. in recent years, world hunger has not really been a question of food availability, but rather a consequence of conflicts and crises that have often made distribution impossible. but since the supply from ukraine - one of the world's largest food exporters - has stopped, we see how quickly we can slip back into a problem of availability. less supply drives up prices. many countries will then be unable to compete financially. and that is why we need short-term financial measures now to help these countries. and i think the financial facility proposed in bali at the g20 is very necessary and very sensible. but we also have to think about how we want to feed people around the world in the medium and long term. and this will only be possible if agriculture is both sustainable and also intensive and productive. those who think that we can extend agriculture here in europe to the point where there is no production left, must simply be aware that by such a policy they are promoting hunger in the world. that is why we need an agriculture which is at the same time progressive, knowledge-based, sustainable, intensive and productive.
madam vice president, the food crisis began before the war in ukraine. the war only exacerbated a food crisis that was already present in many parts of the world. and in fact, in the last few years, since 2015, we've seen a shift away from the goal of ending hunger and food security that we set for ourselves. and it shows that the food system that we're trying to build globally is also a fragile one. in our partnership policy, just providing inputs to partner countries is not going to help us eradicate hunger in the long run. obviously, in a crisis like this one, we have to get food aid where it's needed most. but in the medium and long term, we must think about a coherent investment policy first and foremost, recognising that just as we in the european union have a diversity of agricultural models, so too do we have in partner countries, and recognising and integrating this diversity into our cooperation and partnership policy, and at the same time ensuring that we have coherence between our european policies, between agricultural policy, environmental policy. we need to allow farmers to produce and think about sustainability, but trade policy and food chain policy must be consistent, otherwise we will not achieve our goal.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. culture and education are no longer a field in which only formal methods work. the internet, online applications, social networks have a great influence on the education of young generations, but also on the opinion of all those who use them. we see more and more misinformation online about the war in ukraine or the abhorrent manipulation of the european union. we are seeing an increasing aggressiveness of the russian proxies in this occupation war. we have to admit that this aggressiveness and this intense campaign is causing more and more people to question themselves, to no longer distinguish clearly between right and wrong with all this war. ukraine and the european union are increasingly portrayed as negative characters. we must act decisively and quickly. nobody's condemning free speech. but we must take more seriously the fact that lies and disinformation must be fought much more effectively and punished by law.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, what we have seen in the last weeks is that putin is obviously realising that he cannot win the war in ukraine on the battlefield and this is why he’s resorting to other means. first and foremost, in ukraine, where millions of people have been without electricity and water after russia bombed civilian infrastructure. but the energy war has also reached the rest of europe. and there is only one way that we can win this war, and that is to act united. this energy crisis is, in fact, a gas dependency crisis. it is a crisis of wrong political choices: wrong political choices denying the reality of the dangers of climate change; wrong political choices, denying the reality of the dangers of being completely dependent for fossil fuels on a dictator –a dictator who wants to destroy our freedom and our democracy. but the answer to this cannot be that we put band-aids on a broken system and simply try to import gas and fossil fuels from elsewhere – especially when this means from other dictators. the only answer can be to build a system that is reliable with energy that is cheap and sustainable: wind and solar. and, yes, for that we will need more money for renewables. but we will also need to invest in better insulation of buildings. because despite this crisis, we are still wasting valuable energy every day in badly insulated housing and this costs households money and keeping warm in winter should not be just for those who can afford it. massive investment in insulating homes is a win-win for everyone because it protects people’s health and wallets. and it is a key pillar of our climate action and our responsibility to lead with when it comes to cop27. and, lastly, and i know that many of you don’t want to be confronted with this, but this is real: ( the speaker held up image on an a4 sheet of paper) a deputy minister of the new far-right government in italy with a swastika armband, from a picture not too long ago. he said afterwards, apparently, that it was a joke, a prank. a joke about 6 million jews who were killed in the holocaust. a joke about the countless victims of nazi ideology of fascism in europe, the roma, the trade unionists, the queer men and women, the resistance fighters, the allied soldiers who died on the battlefield for freedom, the women who were raped, the many people who were killed and tortured, the people who lost loved ones and their homes. a joke about a continent that was in complete ruins with 55 million people dead across the world. especially today colleagues, this is not a joke. this is serious and we have to stand up to it together. and the conservatives especially have to learn from history. let us work together and stand up to the far-right across europe.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president von der leyen, president michel, we are concerned because we see that the unity, the concreteness, the momentum that the european institutions have had since 24 february, after the russian invasion of ukraine, is being lost. the debate, the discord between two european institutions, which seems to me to be quite clear from the speech of president michel, is not a good sign, it is not the sign of unity and coordination of the european institutions that we need. we need it now to plan for 2023, which we know will be an even more difficult year than the emergency months we've been facing right now. president von der leyen mentioned the measures taken, the provision of adequate stocks to face this winter, some measures which will certainly help us to face the emergency situation and she mentioned the fall in prices since the peak of this summer. but that's not enough! it's not enough because we'll probably get through the winter better not so much because of what we've done, but because of exogenous conditions: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the common agricultural policy. we need to take concrete action to address and respond to 2023, when asian buyers will return to the market and the lng market will be more competitive; i am not going to go into the details of the situation in the united states, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the situation in the united states. we need action today and we need action also on the issue of how much the european economy is financing russia, because it is true, as the president recalled, that the flows from pipelines and pipelines have been brought to almost zero, but it is equally true that there are other worrying data: the import of liquefied natural gas from russia to the european union has increased dramatically even in these months of war, in these months of confrontation, and we must act on this. we need concrete action, including thinking about the responses that the world, that our competing countries are giving to this crisis: china and the united states are heavily subsidizing their industries, so what will the european union do? what can the european union do to protect industries and households at a time of difficulty and when our competitiveness is at risk? we need a great deal of unity on this and we need words and statements to be followed by facts, concrete facts and concrete answers.
madam president, dear presidents, i am deeply disappointed by the fact that the last european council was silent on updates on south caucasus, where azeri troops occupied 220 square kilometres of armenian sovereign territory, committing war crimes and crimes against humanity, such as executions and tortures. here i see many similarities with what is happening in ukraine, with a democratic country, armenia, being attacked by an aggressive authoritarian regime – but there are also differences that i cannot tolerate. indeed, while rightfully supporting kyiv against the barbaric behaviour of putin’s regime, our union is perceiving azerbaijan as a reliable partner. and no, it’s not, because realpolitik cannot replace our values, and these double standards are undermining our credibility. armenia is a vibrant democracy that is not a russian ally but, on the contrary, is simply a hostage of the kremlin: its assertiveness and threatening attitude, and its decision to sacrifice yerevan in exchange for a fully-fledged alliance with baku and a complacency with ankara. we must get out of this gas dependency trap, from all the authoritarian regimes, and the reluctance on a price cap is a huge mistake. the deployment of our monitoring mission is the first step, and its mandate should be extended permanently for all the time needed as well as the number of observers. but we need more, because blatant violations of international law should be condemned always and everywhere. i stand with democracy. i stand with armenia.
madam president, your excellency, i welcome the council's desire to combat russia's information war. in that regard, i'm here to inform you that the kremlin has activated the poisoned messages from the pandemic. for putin, my country, romania, is a huge stake, because it needs the eurosceptics to gain ground on the border of the european union. therefore, any delay in romania's accession to schengen gives it momentum. another kremlin stake is that the sanctions imposed on russia will be disapproved by as many european citizens as possible, in this case romanians. and here, the predicate is this: romanians, energy is expensive because the european union is blocking the supply of hydrocarbons from russia. fortunately, romania depends on russia for only 9% of its gas, less than 30% of its oil, and we produce all of our electricity ourselves. the council is finally talking about food security. with romania in schengen, the supply chains of grain, salt, sunflower, seriously affected by war, both land and sea, will be able to be streamlined. your excellences, if the blockage of romanians at the schengen border had also occurred in the field of data traffic, energy trade, communications engineers or doctors, the workforce in many countries of the european union would have been less qualified. the romanian state paid for the education of these specialists, as it paid for the security of the schengen border. your excellences, the schengen area needs romania. (the speaker agreed to reply to a 'blue card' intervention)
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. mr bogdan, you mentioned that we are exposed to a whole campaign of disinformation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data.
response to the 'blue card' intervention. thank you, thank you very much. i'll answer you with all the frankness. i think that first of all we have to understand the need for investment in the areas neighbouring the eastern space, and first of all we are talking here about the area of romania, poland, the baltic countries, also slovakia and, of course, the republic of moldova. and i also think very seriously that the commission should be very, very seriously investing in good quality press and accurate information.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, this debate testifies to our shared interest in promoting tangible improvements in respect to the human rights situation in iran, but also to our strong determination to react promptly to any attempt to crack down on fundamental rights and freedoms. the eu and its member states continue to be united in their response. the hr/vp and the foreign ministers of the 27 will take stock at the next foreign affairs council and will consider all options at their disposal, including further restrictive measures in reaction to the killing of mahsa amini and the current and violent response of iranian security forces to peaceful protests.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by eider gardiazabal rubial, siegfried mureşan and dragoş pîslaru, on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the repowereu chapter in the recovery and resilience plans (com (2022) 0231 c9-0183/2022 2022/0164 cod)) (a9-0260/2022).
the rapporteur. mr president, vice-president dombrovskis, commissioner gentiloni, in february 2020, a virus paralysed the world and tested the resilience of our health systems, education, research, even our institutions. at the beginning of the pandemic, the responses were uncoordinated and insufficient, until, little by little, governments agreed on actions and from the union we also began to take the first joint measures that allowed a much more effective response. we activated sure to fund the erte, we mobilized regional funds to fight the pandemic, and of course, we created the recovery and resilience mechanism. at a time when everything was at a standstill, when demand had disappeared and there was only uncertainty, we were able to send a clear message to the citizens with nextgenerationeu funds. we have not only mobilized a lot of money to revive demand, but we have also designed a strategy for the future with investments and reforms focused on the green transition and the digital transition, without, of course, forgetting the social pillar and the young people, who are, in the end, the ones who are paying for this crisis and the previous one. just when we thought the worst was over and we could return to a certain normality, putin orders an invasion of ukraine and causes a geopolitical, humanitarian, food, energy and inflationary crisis to which we have had to react and respond through different instruments. and one of them is repowereu, which is what we are discussing here today. with repowereu we want to achieve three specific objectives, which we share with the commission: to become energy independent from russia by diversifying energy suppliers, to save energy and, in addition, to accelerate the ecological transition. and we must encourage investment in renewable energy and encourage the substitution of fossil fuels in industry and transport. to achieve these three objectives, the recovery and resilience mechanism has to be a key piece and will be a key piece. but to do that we need to amend the regulation and make available to the member states those resources which have not yet been committed under the recovery plan. this is not a problem because the objectives are shared, but it does show, once again, that we have a certain limitation in putting new resources to new needs. i therefore think it is important to stress here too that we have included in our proposal the idea of being able to supplement existing funding with part of the taxes that would be collected by taxing the surplus. many countries are already moving towards the introduction of these taxes and i think it would be reasonable for those who are profiting from this crisis to contribute to financing investments and helping the most vulnerable. that brings me to another proposal which we have also included in our report: that the fight against energy poverty and support for the most vulnerable households be added as one of the objectives of this new chapter. because we are very aware of the terrible impact that the price of electricity is having on households, businesses and smes in general. the report we are presenting here today is quite new compared with the european commission's initial proposal. we have included, for example, a retroactivity clause for those investments made by member states at the start of the war. we have strengthened the role of local authorities and social partners, and we have also encouraged the inclusion of crossborder projects. but i would like to discuss our position on a point relating to the principle of not causing significant damage to the environment. we are well aware of the urgency of cutting off energy supplies from russia, especially some countries, but we must not forget that we are also facing a climate emergency. so what we are proposing is that only for gas, only if the project is critical to ensuring the security of energy supply, only if there is no viable alternative project with clean energy and it is really urgent, only when all these circumstances are present, can a derogation be requested from the european commission. i believe that, with all these conditions and limitations, we have managed to find a balance between the energy emergency we have and the climate emergency.
rapporteur. – mr president, executive vice-president, commissioners, welcome back to the european parliament. immediately after the beginning of the crisis generated by covid-19, with all of its economic and social implications, we launched the biggest package of economic support ever launched at european level, nextgenerationeu, with the recovery and resilience facility as its main part. we have been able to support people, enterprises, regions affected by the virus and by the economic and social consequences of the virus. and we have also embarked together on a trip to make our economies, our public systems – education, healthcare – more resilient, to make them stronger so that we can better face the next crisis. the next crisis has come and we are now seeing how important it is to be strong. we are seeing that any vulnerability is a weakness and costs and is a source of insecurity in terms of crisis. we have seen how our energy dependency on the russian federation can be a risk to our societies and to our economies. this is why the european commission has put forward repowereu, which is a fund that foresees eur 20 billion for investments into reducing our dependency on russian fossil fuels, firstly. and, secondly, improving our energy efficiency – the more efficient we are, the less energy we need to reach our objectives and that also means that we are less dependent on foreign sources. to improve our infrastructure and to better connect our countries and our regions, because this will allow us to move the energy from where we have it to those countries and those regions who would really need it, from an lng terminal to a country that needs gas from a different, more reliable source as it reduces its consumption of russian gas. infrastructure, energy efficiency, reducing the dependency on russia, and also the transition to a green economy to renewables, these are our priorities. what did we do as a parliament in this document, which is the position of the parliament that we will be adopting tomorrow? firstly, we are proposing that member states receive a pre-financing of 20% for their repowereu chapters exactly as they received pre-financing for the national recovery and resilience plans. it is now that member states need money, firstly. secondly, cross-border projects. we need to create an energy union. we need to be better connected. this is why the parliament demands that 35% of the resources go into cross-border projects, into international projects, projects that would lead to benefits for more than one single country. cross-border projects in countries which have such cross-border projects, of course, if a country does not have it, it shouldn’t be obliged to do it. but all countries that have them, that can do them, they should do them. thirdly, the recovery and resilience facility. about eur 200 billion of the loans are unused for the time being. we, as the parliament, demand that 30 days after the entry into force of repowereu, member states need to notify whether they intend to access their loans. if not, they should lose the priority in accessing their loans. in simple words, money available under the recovery and resilience facility not used and not accessed should be made available for repowereu for countries which need to invest more. and we say no to transfers from agriculture and cohesion policy. there was an initial thinking at the level of the commission to allow transfers from agricultural cohesion to repowereu. yes, repowereu is important, but not at the expense of regions and not at the expense of farmers. this is why the colleagues in the regi committee and the agri committee are proposing not to support these transfers and this is also the view of the majority of the parliament. more transparency in accessing these funds properly involving local and regional authorities, as for smaller energy projects at local level – their involvement is beneficial. this is the position of the parliament. thanks to the two co-rapporteurs, thanks to the shadow rapporteurs that have worked with us. we are looking forward to a clear vote tomorrow and then to the trilogues between the council and parliament with the support of the commission in the upcoming weeks.
rapporteur. – mr president, vice-president dombrovskis, commissioner gentiloni, dear colleagues, today we deliver. we repower europe. what we are debating today and what we will vote tomorrow is the pure definition of why we have been elected by our citizens – to find solutions to their problems. today, we provide our citizens with the tools to overcome this winter. we equip our continent with projects that will cut our dependency on russia. we will invest in our continent to make it more sustainable and green for our next generations. this house showed already that in challenging times, in crisis situations, we can find solutions. and this time is no different. guided by the principle of solidarity, we delivered two years ago the recovery and resilience facility. now we compliment this work with repowereu, allowing governments to improve their recovery plans with extra investment for more energy efficiency, for tackling energy poverty and for green energy resources. we at renew europe envisage repowereu with three goals in mind: ambition, transparency and flexibility. all these ingredients can be found in the position we put forward to you today. the first goal: ambition. ambition is when we find sustainable solutions for this winter, not only for the distant future. the parliament wants to see the repowereu money directly in the pockets of vulnerable households. and smes that are scared about this winter – and they’re already struggling with their energy bills – need micro—investment schemes to become more energy efficient now, not later, to reduce their energy bills now, not later. second goal: transparency. transparency is when we ask governments to disclose how they will use these new funds. the parliament, together with civil society, is continuously signalling that we do not have enough clarity on the implementation of the plans on the beneficiaries. how many years need to pass until we finally have the data about the projects and beneficiaries of eu funds in a single interoperable format? but no transparency can be achieved without proper dialogue. repowereu measures will need to be drafted, designed and implemented together with civil society, with the private sector, with the local and regional authorities. we introduced the mandatory criteria in this sense – no repowereu money without proper consultation with stakeholders. third goal: flexibility. flexibility is when we think about the best use of new and existing funds. i know that governments may have many challenges that need to be solved with eu funds, but i also know that many of them have a lot of unspent funds from previous years due to bad absorption rates and change of circumstances. and instead of losing this money, why not use it for repowereu investment? i appeal to common sense and ask the governments to start counting and transfer all money that they were unable to spend in order to have more funding for the repowereu measures. this work would not have been possible without the cooperation among us, the colleagues that worked on this file – siegfried mureşan from epp, eider gardiazabal rubial from s&d. we struggled to find together the proper balance between the pragmatic projects that our citizens need right now and the green and sustainable society we want to leave behind for our youth and children. we overcame our differences and reached solid compromises, aligning our priorities. rest assured, we will defend this mandate given by the house with responsibility, and we will show the same unity during the negotiation ahead as we did when we negotiated the recovery and resilience facility. ambition, transparency, flexibility – this is how we can emerge even stronger from this new crisis and build a truly resilient and energy—independent europe. i urge you to vote tomorrow thinking of the next generation, of the legacy we will leave for the future, and of the solidarity with ukraine and against russia’s aggression. let’s repower europe together.
madam president, we have heard the word reforms many times in this chamber today. it's good that these reforms continue to happen. the most important vote tomorrow is the vote on recital 22, the split vote which allows us to keep the commission text that refers to continuing these reforms, while integrating repowereu into national recovery and resilience plans. romania has a direct interest in this happening. i therefore appeal directly to the romanian rapporteurs, firstly mr muresan, but also mr nica, to keep this voting record. it's simple: recital 22, plus, minus, plus, plus, that's the order in which we have to vote. it's the crucial vote, even if the renew amendment never gets voted on. in this way, we secure the reforms and preserve the interest of romania and all member states that want to make the reforms further. that's the purpose of the regulation, that's the purpose of the recovery and resilience facility, and i hope we'll be lucid, supportive and united. i hope that the european commission will again have in this discussion, which will be complicated, all the power and support that we can give it, so that it talks with each member state individually and we are the reformists of europe, not the anti-reformers in each of these member states.
madam president, this proposal falls far short of the answers needed in the energy sector. it ignores the consequences of sanctions which sacrifice the interests of the countries and peoples of europe. hardly any new money, more loans and debt. it redirects funds from the current recovery and resilience plans, cohesion and eafrd, removing funds needed to respond to structural deficits. they redirect dependencies to other, more distant, more expensive and environmentally more harmful dependencies, such as fracking shale gas in the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the economic groups, financed indirectly, win; the people with the tongue in their mouths pay. more constraints on energy policies and national development strategies. this is not the way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, the new anti-people eu regulation on repowereu is channelling additional funds from the european recovery fund that will be 'squeezed' by the energy and construction groups as they enjoy a huge range of provocative immunities, for the construction of pipelines, renewable energy generation infrastructure and energy storage. with the invoking of the european union's 'green race' with russia, the usa and china, against the backdrop of the imperialist war in ukraine, and while contradictions are intensifying even within the european union, even the preliminary regulations of the green deal are being removed, as is the so-called obligation to apply the principle of not causing significant damage to the environment. the people are being offered the familiar crumbs of some temporary rebates on the unbearable energy bills, already paid for by the people, since, in the name of saving, they will again be frozen out or left in the dark. with the impetus of the major strikes and demonstrations in greece, belgium, france and spain, the people are opposing the eu's strategy of precision and impoverishment, demanding wage increases, collective agreements, cheap energy, the abolition of taxes. no house without electricity!
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this debate, for the proposal and for the interesting ideas from the co-rapporteurs in the report today. we are reacting to a new crisis; this is obvious. we have a huge plan. the recovery and resilience facility, next generation eu, was a very big achievement for us and it is not out-of-date. the elements, the pillars of this plan in terms of investments and reforms are still so important for our economies. i think we are delivering, we already disbursed something like eur 137 billion for this plan. but at the same time, we have a new emergency. this is clear, i think, to all political parties, to all the citizens in the union, and we react to this new crisis with repowereu. again, i think, useful the fact that it’s not so huge as next generation eu, but we have again a new common tool to respond. we propose a very targeted derogation for the ‘do no significant harm’ principle to meet the immediate concern of this emergency, and we take note of the fact that parliament is proposing several amendments to frame this derogation. we understand the principle. the principle is that this emergency reaction should not weaken or undermine the global green transition we are working for. we know that this is something that for our targets in 2030 and 2050 we should continue to implement. so we need the balance with very limited derogations to face this crisis without weakening the global process. to unlock the potential of this proposal, of course, we are all aware that we need to have some urgency. so my call to parliament – but i think you are much more aware than me – is that we need a political agreement by the end of the year on this dialogue that will start after your vote, because of the urgency. we don’t have a mountain of resources on this plan, but we have urgent needs and this is, i think, what we owe to our citizens. some of you have also raised the point of additional resources. of course, i agree to this point. the president has also committed to come forward with further proposals to strengthen the firepower of this emergency intervention. however, this should not distract us from moving fast in finding the agreement. we work for further potential resources but, at the same time, we understand the urgency to give the answer as soon as possible, and i am sure that we will do this together.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, i fully agree with the conclusions you have drawn from our debate. the first is that, as i said in my speech, we must be able to balance the energy emergency with the climate emergency and i think that, in this respect, the proposal made by this parliament with regard to the principle of 'not causing significant damage' is quite balanced. in any case, the important thing is that this parliament will vote tomorrow on a position which, by virtue of the debate we have had here today, with the exception of some dissenting voices, will be an absolutely majority position shared by the large groups in this house, and with that position we will go to the negotiations. we are aware - and that is why we have worked very quickly in parliament - of the urgency of reaching this agreement and, although we also share the need for improvement and for increased resources, of course this is not going to be something that will paralyse the negotiations. the important thing is that we have the instrument and i think we are not far from being able to reach a quick agreement; then, i hope that new resources are not needed, because it would mean that the instrument works and that we are getting out of that dependence on russian gas, but, of course, if necessary, it will always have the hand of this parliament to work on it. i would like to conclude by thanking once again my co-rapporteurs, siegfried mureşan and dragoş pîslaru, because we worked a lot on the recovery mechanism and this time, as we were already getting to know each other better and it was easier to reach these agreements, we had a job which i think has been perfectly reflected in this agreement, and the same with the rest of the groups which have facilitated the finding of a quick agreement, because they were political groups and committees with very different legitimate interests, but i think that in the end in our proposal we have found that balance which we so badly need. so tomorrow we will vote and open negotiations quickly.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, thank you very much for the debate. thank you very much for the constructive spirit tonight. we have witnessed today that parliament is united on this important topic. we thank you for the debate and we are looking forward to the vote tomorrow. we are going with a clear united position into the negotiations of the council and we know that parliament will further improve this proposal of the european commission by proposing prefinancing, which will make sure that member states will receive sooner support, so that vulnerable consumers and enterprises can be helped sooner. we will be supporting the allocation key of the council. we want to incentivise cross—border projects. we want to make sure that the eur 20 billion in grants reaches the beneficiaries soon. we also want to make sure that the loans available are mobilised soon. we will fight for transparency. we will fight for the involvement of local and regional authorities. commissioner, we count on you to stand with parliament to make sure that governments are transparent when it comes to the final beneficiaries, to make sure that the governments do repowereu in an inclusive way involving local and regional levels where justified and having proper consultations. this is the position of parliament, a united position of parliament. we are ready to start negotiations with council immediately. we are ready to formally start next week. commissioner, we are united in the commitment to finalise, to conclude this process before the end of the year, because you are absolutely right, it is now in winter time that people need support, people need a direction. so we are ready and we are obliged to deliver fast on this. thank you all for your support and for your participation.
the reporter. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, repowereu is nothing more than a commitment to the citizens that we can overcome this crisis. it is a landmark of european union solidarity. we have a moral duty to use this tool for the benefit of our citizens. they are our priority, not the political colour, not the backstage games. it's very good that we saw that we have a strong position of the european parliament on the content of this programme and how we relate to lifting citizens out of energy poverty, how we can have more sustainable energy sources and not be dependent on russian gas. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the overall impact of the measures taken by the member states on the union's financial stability. this will be a crucial thing tomorrow and will divide the parliament between those who will support reforms and the reform agenda at european level and those who will seek to find a pretext in the repowereu negotiations to undermine how these reforms are to be carried out. no responsible government, no member state should run away from reform. the timetable of targets and milestones set out in the national plans must be respected, especially when it comes to reforms that have not been done for so long. it is very important that through what we do in repowereu we can really progress into the future and not regress, before what we have done through the recovery and resilience mechanism. tomorrow's vote on recital 22 is a key vote which allows the second part of this recital to be returned to the commission's text with a negative vote. tomorrow's vote + - + + is a key vote on recital 22 and will allow us to really have a reform position on repowereu.
the debate on that important file is closed. it seems we have an alignment between parliament and the commission. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. repowereu will be introduced into national recovery plans to support independence from russian fossil fuels! the context generated by the russian invasion of ukraine and the effects of the covid-19 pandemic led to the increase in energy prices in the european union, thus underlining the importance of using renewable energy. to achieve the long-term objective, the european union must reduce its dependence not only on russia but on any other third country. i welcome this initiative, but i want to stress that funding any programme from the cohesion policy or the common agricultural policy is not a viable solution for the future of our continent. we cannot put the european union's food security or regional development at risk. for new projects, we need new money. hydrogen, which is based on nuclear energy, will play an important role in replacing natural gas. nuclear energy is a viable solution for achieving the european union's energy independence and climate neutrality objectives. romania will receive eur 1,39 billion for investments in energy efficiency and investments in renewable energy sources. however, the european union must take account of the specificities of each country.
written. tomorrow's vote marks an important step forward in addressing some of the structural problems that have piled up and surfaced with the energy crisis. i am thinking in particular of the need to invest more in the development of new energy infrastructure, such as for the production of renewable energy and hydrogen, but also to overcome energy supply disruptions. the financial resources we will be voting on are significant: €20 billion in grants and more than €200 billion in loans that are unused under the recovery and resilience facility. to mitigate the effects of the energy crisis, we have asked for and will continue to ask for more funds, because the challenges of the current energy crisis are much greater than the funds already allocated. the challenges are many: the fragility of our families and households; energy poverty; the competitiveness of our businesses; and the very social cohesion of our societies. but financial resources alone are not enough: to have a long-term sustainable response to the crisis, energy market reform measures temporary and structural are needed. we know what the measures are: new benchmarks for gas prices, separation of gas and electricity prices, dynamic capping of the price of gas traded in the eu and the implementation of the common gas supply in the eu. we know what we have to do, and now is the time to deliver for the good of our citizens and our economies.
in writing. i would like to express my support for the establishment of the repowereu programme, with the objectives of ensuring our energy security in these turbulent times, diversifying our energy supply sources to democratic partners and accelerating the achievement of energy independence in the european union. as regards the financing of the programme, i support the commission's proposals to allocate €20 billion of eu ets grants to member states and the use of the remaining €225 billion in the soft loan part of the recovery and resilience facility. however, i would like to draw attention to the commission's proposal that member states can transfer up to 7.5% of the cohesion funds and up to 12.5% of the cap pillar 2 rural development to repowereu. i stress that this money is extremely important for the progress of the less developed regions in the coming years and for the development of the rural areas that have lagged behind, which is why i firmly maintain that the new crises facing the eu require new sources of funding and not the relocation of money from existing programmes, so necessary for reducing the development gaps.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for this presentation, but i can tell you right now that it will be a crushing disappointment to many european producers, especially those from countries which will not afford state aid, and are already financially exhausted because they have to deal with a war that is very close to their border. so we have no real, effective solutions for the factories in europe that were providing 70 percent of the ammonia and phosphorus production and that have closed. we have few solutions for the autumn agricultural campaign and no strategy for food security next year. the promises are good, the indications given to the member states are good, but even better would have been the concrete measures, which have saved a vital sector that has been brought to its knees and is struggling to survive. i therefore call on the council and the commission to urgently suspend the customs duties on urea and ammonia, on the commission and the member states to ensure that the amount of gas required for fertiliser production is not affected by the continuity of agricultural activities, and, last but not least, on the european commission to diversify the sources of substances needed for fertiliser production, to lift the tariff barriers for these substances and to identify new mineral deposits in the european union for fertiliser production.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, dear laurence, the theme of this initiative, which is certainly not an original one, is a playful theme, but not only. this is an important initiative. as you mentioned, dear laurence, this is a very dynamic sector, important for the economy, employing almost 100 000 highly qualified people and obviously occupying a large part of our days and sometimes even of our nights, in any case for a significant number of our fellow european citizens, since almost half, as you said, between the ages of 6 and 64 play video games. it is also a sector with a constant growth of 6% in 2021. so obviously, beyond economic performance, there are a number of very relevant axes which we must bear in mind in the reflections which aim to structure, as you have just called it, a global strategy for video games, but also for esports. you mentioned the competitions earlier. this is a particularly dynamic area, but it is not the only one. there is the development of talents - very important - of know-how, which is a very significant issue. we have a lot of creativity in europe, a lot of know-how. these skills need to be developed; it is very important to keep them in europe. these are often highly sought-after talents, who can benefit from important prospects outside our continent. of course, they must be maintained. this is a very important subject. the international promotion of games and their use as educational tools is a key issue, which must be at the heart of our overall strategy. but most of all, i would like to emphasize here in front of you the pioneering role of video games in creating virtual worlds. there's a lot of talk about it these days. it is true that this is one of the sectors most highlighted. the video game industry has often developed know-how and technologies - for example, graphics cards. graphics cards were developed for video games and are now at the heart of supercomputers - i won't name the companies involved, they will recognize themselves. we can't do without it to make supercomputers anymore. the same applies to everything that concerns virtual worlds and, of course, one can think of the applications of the metaverse. so here too we have an industry which is pushing technological developments and which is going to open up new frontiers for us, and we must of course be prepared for this. these developments must be seen to emerge and develop right here in europe, on our continent. so you see that this subject, which may seem like a game, is actually very serious: whether it's about behaviors, talents, technologies, habits, but also about the creativity that this can generate. of course the commission supports the video games sector, which is considered, for all the reasons i have just mentioned, as a strategic sector, which is part of the rest of the audiovisual ecosystem, and which therefore benefits from the media programme under creative europe. we have launched, as you have just mentioned, the media invest programme, which is an investment tool aimed at making the audiovisual industry, including that of video games, more resilient, more dynamic, more innovative too. in addition, we are currently implementing a pilot project entitled 'understanding the value of a european video game society', which aims to capture the contours of the economic and societal value of the entire video game ecosystem, and whose conclusions we also expect to present before summer 2023. that is what i wanted to say to you before the debates that are to follow. i thank you again for this resolution and i welcome its holistic approach - we have seen that the subject covered a very wide range of elements - and i take this opportunity to say that the commission is ready to work very closely with you, with parliament, on the follow-up to this report.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr vice-president, commissioner breton, dear laurence, colleagues, in recent years we have seen a growing proliferation of video games and so-called online sports. it's very important to realize that these games are not just a waste of time, as some people call them, for the new generation. we have young people who know a lot about european cities, about nuclear accidents, about maps and codes. we have young people who have solid digital literacy and all of this is because of their passion for video games. as regards online sports, we need to address specific legislation, because they cannot be compared and should not be treated like classical sports. there's a whole industry behind these games and sports, and commissioner breton mentioned that, from writers, actors, musicians, to digital specialists. it is important that we in the european union have a framework that ensures the rights of players, but also the development of a european digital games industry, to be part of this industry, which ultimately represents millions of euros globally.
mr vice-president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the idea of a european identity, which all citizens of the european union can embrace and assume, has never been more important than it is today. we have seen what we have shown over the last three years, that being a citizen of the european union means being in solidarity with others, valuing human rights, the safety of our fellow citizens and democracy. unfortunately, we live in times when anti-european propaganda using disinformation and fake news is increasingly widespread, trying to instill in the minds and hearts of europeans, as they do in the hearts of romanians, question marks about this huge political project, the european union. it's time that this propaganda was questioned. it's time to call to account the lies, the spreading of false news, the attempts to spread hatred among us. i appreciate and strongly support the right to free speech, but i also strongly support that misinformation should be punished.
mr president, dear commissioner, ‘it is essential, if man is not to be compelled to have recourse, as a last resort, to rebellion against tyranny and oppression, that human rights should be protected by the rule of law’ – this is what the preamble of the 1948 universal declaration of europe of the human rights states. thus, the rule of law is not a goal in itself, but a way to accurately protect the rights of all human beings. what happened during the covid-19 crisis proved that the european commission, under the leadership of ursula von der leyen, will use the rule of law slogan to impose severe violation of human rights unseen in western europe since the second world war. von der leyen is using the rule of law slogan to blackmail now sovereign eu member states with guarding their deserved european funds if they do not comply with the ideology imposed by the brussels bureaucracy. under the ruling power of ursula von der leyen we are witnessing right now the chinafication of europe, where people cannot decide for themselves, even if or what to be injected with. ursula von der leyen is the biggest threat to human rights in the eu right now, which is why she must immediately and unconditionally resign.
mr president, commissioner, i want to speak about schengen because it seems unacceptable to me that in a time of challenges, when the security crisis has had dramatic effects on all the countries of the european union, our country, romania, but also bulgaria and croatia, should still be kept outside the borders of the european union. this is unacceptable, given that parliament has five times said green for romania to join the schengen area. the european commission believes that we meet all the criteria, but the council of the european union is questioning the treaty on european union and discriminating against a country that meets all the criteria and wants to become a member of the schengen area. this behaviour is unacceptable and i believe that member states should stop playing internal political games with interests that are part of the union's strategy and policies on free movement.
madam president, i believe that the european union has an obligation to protect its citizens from cybercrime and i have observed in this period, that russia is waging more wars on more fronts, including attacking the critical infrastructure of the european union repeatedly through cyberattacks. that is why i believe it is essential to strengthen the legal framework at european level for cybersecurity. that is why i voted with all my heart and i believe that strict regulation is absolutely necessary to ensure a secure and trustworthy digital environment and to guarantee all european citizens the services essential for the functioning of the digital single market and critical infrastructures, because it is absolutely important to avoid any hostile attack by state actors.
madam president, the national recovery and resilience plans, created in response to the coronavirus pandemic and the consequences that this pandemic has produced, have produced positive consequences among member states. but it is not just the health crisis that has hit the european union. we have the security crisis triggered by the russian federation and we have an energy crisis that was also triggered by the kremlin in order to blackmail the european union. we need new mechanisms to support member states to support citizens to cope with these unprecedented price increases and, of course, to create new mechanisms to protect the internal market and, of course, solutions that will allow us to be fully energy independent in the future, not to be dependent for a moment on energy sources coming from the russian federation.
madam president, i consider this a historic vote, it is a very important vote for croatia. i gave it with all my heart because i very much hope that this year croatia, romania and bulgaria will achieve this goal of a stage of deeper integration into the european union. the european union has always overcome its problems of internal crises when it has taken courageous decisions, whether through enlargement or through more integration, and i believe that croatia, bulgaria and romania should be integrated into the schengen area this year, because then we can also help the states in our immediate neighbourhood, exposed to these constant threats from the russian federation. i very much want croatia to enjoy, like all other countries, free movement, because it is a right under the treaty. it is the council's duty to take this implementation further, because unfortunately romania and bulgaria have been unfairly locked up in the council of the european union for more than 11 years.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, this year, the european union is spending more money than ever from the budget of the european union and from nextgenerationeu, the recovery and resilience facility. we have a duty to make sure that this money is well spent. we have to make sure that this money is protected. we see that these budgets are already creating positive results in many countries. in most of the countries of the european union, these two categories of budgets are flowing. we are seeing hospitals being modernised, schools being digitalised, we are seeing infrastructure being made more competitive, more modern, greener, we are seeing it renewed. but the principle is clear. money can only flow if rules are respected and the rule of law is fundamental. it is the most important of them all. so far, everyone has agreed. on hungary, there were deficiencies with regards to the management of eu funds, with regards to the rule of law, and these deficiencies have to be corrected. now it is up to the hungarian government to implement the measures which it has agreed with the european commission, and then it is up to the european commission to assess. our expectation is clear: the commission should only give a positive assessment once the measures are implemented by the hungarian government and money should only flow when money is safe. money should only flow when it is protected. our position, as the european parliament, should be we want to help the people of hungary as we are helping people in other eu member states. we hope that the hungarian government is not an obstacle in the desire of europe to help the people of hungary.
madam president, commissioner and, indeed, absent council – regrettably absent council. eur 18 billion of emergency aid to ukraine, meant to keep hospitals running, to rebuild destroyed railways, and to build new houses for ukrainians; prime minister orbán has the heart to block this crucial money in order to blackmail us – the eu, everyone – over the funds he himself denies to the citizens of hungary. and we are supposed to believe that this same person has the genuine intention of improving the rule of law in his own country. i’m sorry, but i can’t. the creation of the rule of law conditionality regulation was historic. finally, we could connect eu money to the core democratic values of our union. by risking to release funds to hungary, against better judgment, the commission dismantles the mechanism at its first use. the commission should not give an inch. and this is not a cue for the council to finally make progress with article 7 procedure. and i hold all 26 governments accountable because orbán can only blackmail us if we let him. naivety with autocrats needs to belong to the past. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
it's a yellow card speech. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. mr. representative, i have to ask you to leave. your group leader said when he adopted the agenda that national laws should be decided and debated in national parliaments. you know, it was in the context of the spanish law that allows rapists and pedophiles to be put on the streets sooner, so they have to serve less time. i ask you, do you accept that this is also true for hungary, that we decide at home on matters of hungarian national competence? why do you doubt, i ask, that the commission is acting in accordance with the treaties and the legislation, so that conditionality is legally possible, and negotiating with the hungarian government? what would be enough for you if the 17 measures that the parties are close to agreeing on are not good enough? isn't it about not resting as long as there's a conservative government in hungary? do you not want to put hungary under guardianship?
blue-card reply. – yes, beginners mistake to accept a blue-card. sorry for that but my answer is very simple and very short because we are not talking about all these issues that you mentioned. we are talking about the core fundamentals of the union, which is enshrined in treaties, and these treaties have been signed by the democratic hungarian people a long time ago, and these treaties need to be respected. and that’s our job; that’s what we do here.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the state of play in the negotiations between the commission and the hungarian government to find out whether it fulfils the conditions for benefiting from the recovery plan which all the other states have already benefited from, that is to say, whether according to brussels there is indeed a rule of law in hungary, which the commission and some seem to deny. no, no, no. i know. is it really about corruption or defending public money? it is a question of actually punishing a country that does not do what the commission asks it to do when it asks it to do it. because hungary defends first and foremost the will of its people, which was clearly expressed in the ballot box, because hungary defends its national sovereignty and because national sovereignty is a fundamental principle at the heart of our identities and our democracies, to challenge this right would be a violent and undemocratic act.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the people who started this debate today are the guards of the rule of law, but in fact they are the enemies of freedom. they embody everything that is wrong with the eu: intolerant, aggressive, educational and degrading. they disregard the decisions and will of the people and cannot forgive that the hungarians, and more and more others in europe, do not ask for their policies, do not ask for their life-long, dangerous proposals. they demanded that hungary negotiate. and now that we've negotiated and we've agreed, you're even more frustrated because you've never really cared about the rule of law. all the accusations that have been made against hungary for years have been lies. a cynical tool in the hands of obsessive political clowns like daniel freund, katarina barley and petri sarvamaa. you want the hungarian people to have no eu aid. we reject this shameful blackmail, which tramples on the foundations of european cooperation!
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. finally, we're able to close a long and difficult series of negotiations. the hungarian government and the european commission are nearing the end of a constructive dialogue. now, on the verge of an agreement, the left wing of the european parliament is launching yet another attack. the european commission has always been committed to improving the use of eu funds. the hungarian government has made 17 comprehensive commitments in line with the expected expectations and has created the legal environment for them. reforms have begun, institutional changes have been made. i'd like to reverse all the progress you've made. the stakes are no less than 10 million european, european hungarian citizens getting access to their billions. my fellow members of parliament! you are now in a position to decide: do you support the results achieved or do you put your supposedly individual and party interests, as we have seen, against the interests of the hungarian citizens? this is no time for massages. yes or no? left-wing denial only helps extremists by refusing to have a dialogue in europe. they say they are attacking a government, but their decisions put a country of nearly ten million people in an impossible situation. but why and how should the pro-european hungarians and millions of european citizens trust the european parliament? many of you still sing at various party events that this fight will be the final one. well, that's what i'd like to hope for.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. unfortunately, the question in hungary today is not whether the hungarians will get eu money. unfortunately, the question now is whether eu funds will be given to a select few hungarians. because viktor orbán doesn't want eu funds to go to the hungarian people, the municipalities and small businesses, but to his own business partners, oligarchs, family members. and it's not a prophecy. this is evidenced by the history of the past 12 years, in which the childhood friend of the hungarian prime minister went from being a simple village gas mechanic to the richest man in the country. after 12 years of stealing, orbán is now assuring europe that he will set up an independent authority to screen out corruption, that it will be possible to sue for systemic theft, that there will be a different system of public procurement. it's like a bunch of hyenas trying to prove that they've already eaten half the savannah, but they're going to be vegetarians in the future. this is a blur, this is a dustbite. this is just a ruse to deceive the european commission. orban's corruption cannot be curbed by the institutions that orban has set up. 17 the only real measure needed is to join the european public prosecutor's office. the european public prosecutor's office is the only one able to achieve results because it is truly independent of this system. only this would guarantee that the money of european taxpayers goes where it belongs, to the hungarian people, to hungarian small businesses and to hungarian municipalities. we stand with the hungarian people, we defend them, and we represent them when we insist on joining the european public prosecutor's office.
madam president, the rule of law is a key value of our community. it is supposed to guarantee equal treatment to every eu citizen in every eu country. without a functioning system of the rule of law, citizens, companies and the non—government sector find themselves uncertain about their rights. and that is exactly the current situation in hungary. for a long time, europeans have felt the absence of guarantees of the rule of law, state-controlled media, interference in the free status of universities, systemic corruption and clientelism, etc., etc. last week we witnessed the shameful diplomatic action of the hungarian government, which started negotiating with the iranian regime; a regime that murders women, young people, supplies attack drones against ukraine. in this situation, we offer to mr orbán very weak 16 measures, but still we don’t see any progress. the time is ending. we need to act now and we need to act according to the law of our community and protect eu values and taxpayers’ budget funds.
madam president, commissioner reynders, this european parliament took the initiative of initiating the article 7 sanctions procedure just six years ago because it considered that the government of viktor orbán in hungary already at that time indicated a clear risk of a serious and systematic violation of the fundamental values of the european union. and since then it has only worsened the deterioration of freedom of expression, respect for information pluralism, respect for minorities and respect for political pluralism and, of course, the assault on the independence of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office. but this discussion is not about the rule of law, it is about the conditionality regulation which this european parliament has adopted as a law binding on the member states and which therefore makes access to european funds conditional on compliance with the rule of law. the aim is not to punish governments, nor, of course, to punish the hungarian people. the purpose is to protect the financial interests of the union. it is not a freezing of funds, it is ensuring transparency in the management of the union's financial interests. and it turns out that the commission imposes seventeen conditions, of which the orbán government, so far, only seems to have started to comply with three. and these measures will, in any case, require time to be implemented. i can therefore only endorse the opinion of the negotiating team, which states that there is no reason for the european commission to actually allow access to european funds and the recovery fund, for an amount of no less than eur 7 500 000 000, to the hungarian government. there's a lot of work to be done. it has not done its homework and therefore there is only one conclusion to be drawn: the conditionality of access to funds to compliance with the rule of law should not be lifted.
madam president, nobody’s trying to punish hungary, as the hungarian government is saying publicly when discussing the application of the conditionality regulation. but we in this house have a responsibility towards the european citizens to protect eu values, to make sure eu funds are used correctly and that there is no risk affecting the eu budget. i know the european commission is also aware of this huge responsibility. we cannot base our decisions on vague commitments to rule of law and promises of reforms without long-term monitoring. if we release these funds without true restoration of the rule of law in hungary, then we will fail our collective responsibility. we will fail the hungarian and european citizens alike. we will undermine all the work done so far in order to protect the rule of law in europe. then we must make sure that hungarian citizens do not suffer for the actions of their government and channel eu funds towards the civil society and local authorities. and, finally, freezing money for ukraine and vetoing nato’s membership in order to negotiate one’s unique interpretation of the rule of law is a form of international blackmail. if i were you, mr orbán, i would never go that far. the boomerang effect could be international, too, and i am not sure that you could ever explain it to the hungarian people.
member of the commission. – madam president, mr ehler, honourable members, the european innovation council is a crucial instrument for the implementation of the new european innovation agenda, no doubt. this agenda aims to position the union as a global leader in deep—tech innovation to address our deepest societal challenges. this ambition remains the same against the current economic downturn. the european innovation council is a major novelty of the union’s innovation policy. it’s key in providing support to high—risk, deep—tech start—ups with a unique mix of grants, equity investments and innovation ecosystem services. the commission is currently finalising the work programme of the european innovation council for 2023, with a budget of over eur 1.6 billion, it will continue to help identify, develop and scale up breakthrough technologies and game—changing innovations. the commission shares the views in the report that the european innovation council fund should be a key player in supporting breakthrough innovation in europe. i am happy to say after taking yet another step in the required restructuring, and the appointment of an external fund manager in september, the eic fund is fully operational. it has already taken 35 investment decisions worth around eur 190 million and many more decisions are expected in the coming weeks. under the eic accelerator, offering grants and equity investments, 313 companies have been selected for support since june 2021. the total grant funding to these companies is eur 680 million and 185 grant agreements have already been signed. over half of the 313 companies – 184 exactly – are also proposed to receive equity investments ranging from eur 1.5 million to eur 15 million each through the eic fund. the eic fund is fully engaged to deal with the backlog of equity investments. i would also like to reassure this house that the essential features of the eic will be fully preserved as the commission is moving towards indirect management of the eic fund, as foreseen in the horizon europe regulation. i would like to underline that, first, the commission will continue to steer the direction of investments through the eic annual work programmes, on which parliament will continue to be informed in full transparency. second, the investment decisions of the external fund manager must follow the investment guidelines endorsed by the commission covering the terms of investment. under these guidelines, the eic fund will continue to be fully able to invest alone when the company is not ready for a funding round. the commission will take a close look at the suggestion made with respect to the work of the executive agency eismea. once again, i would like to thank also the rapporteurs for this work, also on behalf of my fellow commissioner, mariya gabriel, and – if you allow, because dg budg has been addressed – to say a few words. first, with the experience of a former business person and a minister of science and research, you have all my sympathy for this kind of project, and i believe it’s something extremely important because it is also addressing some, let’s say, of the market failures we unfortunately see in europe. but it is also uncharted territory for a public administration, at least at the union level. there are some member states who are already rather successful on this. but the huge majority of public administration, for them, it’s, so to say, a new territory. this is why, and i can fully understand your impatience, it took us some time to find the right model. may i say, not, unfortunately, but i have to admit, i spent much more time with your colleagues from the budget committee, from the budget control committee, from the court of auditors and we have tried to anticipate potential concerns in order not to enter into a situation where we are finally blocked or criticised. the whole initiative is, i wouldn’t say at the brink, but there might be questions. therefore, again, please understand. there have also been some personal issues, but also this has been, i think, cleared. therefore, i’m very confident that now we are in the rollout phase. indeed, this instrument should show its capacity, its potential, because if it works, it should be also a role model for many other public administrations in our member states, because it’s definitely something where the union for the huge majority of member states can serve as an excellent, interesting, and let’s say, positive role model, where others should follow. that’s why i think we should have – and we have – a joint interest that this is really a common success story of all of us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, according to official european surveys, three out of four children under the age of four are regularly subjected to punishment and psychological violence by their parents or carers. 3% of children aged two to four do not feel safe at home, 9% at school and 8% online. it goes without saying that these rates rise dramatically among adolescents who spend many hours a day online. the period of the pandemic and the lockdown saw a huge increase in domestic violence cases involving child victims, as well as an alarming increase in online violence against minors and in particular the crime of sexual abuse. the victims of this crime, who are finally daring to speak out, are highlighting the need for a new legislative proposal to prevent and combat this most heinous form of violence. ladies and gentlemen, we have a primary obligation to effectively protect every child at risk. i think you will agree that if we, as a european family, do not focus on children and their future, we have no reason to exist.
madam president, dear colleagues, the accession of romania to the schengen area leads to benefits for the entire european union. specialists estimate that the trade volume between romania and its main eu partners would be boosted by more than 10% in the next few years. the increase of gdp in romania, bulgaria and croatia will lead to a multiplier effect on the european economy already facing an increased risk of recession. schengen enlargement also means a strong pro-european message in our region, but also better support capacities for ukraine and its reconstruction. finally, the internal market will be better integrated across the region, leading to more opportunities for smes. cross-border areas will become bowls of development and the increased mobility will lead to the development of digital trade and tourism. among the countries that will benefit the most from these new opportunities are the netherlands and austria, with whom romania maintains special trade links, led by right-wing government that currently oppose enlargement without any arguments. i call upon my colleagues here in the parliament and the commission to continue helping us by presenting these arguments in order to have a positive vote at the december justice and home affairs council.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in many parts of the european union, development projects financed by the european union represent a large part of public investment, perhaps even one of the largest parts. we here in the european parliament have set out certain directions for the use of these funds: digitisation, sustainable development, focus on environmental aspects, but also the prioritisation of renewable energy. we have included in the regulations clear conditions of transparency and the obligation of real consultation of civil society, of citizens in order to respect their interests and priorities in the region. unfortunately, we have clear signs that the priorities outlined are not fully understood, that some authorities are trying to keep civil society at a distance, and its suggestions for development strategies and decision-making are almost non-existent. because we have set some priorities, because we have decided here in this parliament that civil society will be involved. we are the ones who have to make sure that these conditions are met even where public authorities are not used to cooperating when it comes to spending public money.
madam president, ‘personal identity or digital identity’ is the question that we all – regular people or elected officials – need to answer in the current rash of global developments. personal identity is composed of distinctive qualitative qualities like personal beliefs, aspirations and desires that make a human being unique in their relationship with the state and with other human beings. this is because a human being is seen as a subject with rights, including inalienable fundamental rights which are inherent to human dignity. digital identity, on the other side, starts from the presumption that human beings are not subjects with inalienable rights, but objects at the disposal of governments which have to assign them different attributes in order to grant them certain privileges. we saw this happening during communism in eastern europe. we see this happening right now in china with the social credit system. and we see this being implemented right now in the western world by organisations like the world economic forum. i call therefore on all the members of the european parliament to reject any proposals that are implementing a digital identity in the eu, and nevertheless i call on all the people of europe and the world to reject and vote against such politicians that are proposing a digital identity.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. i have approved the new european rules, which are designed to strengthen the eu's critical infrastructure in the face of a range of challenges raised by this directive. in addition to terrorist attacks, there are now natural disasters and acts of sabotage. it also extends the scope to eleven sectors, including energy, transport, banking, financial market infrastructures, health, drinking water, food, digital infrastructure. it also establishes common minimum rules on the basis of which member states will classify the same suppliers as essential. i support the call on eu states to adopt national strategies to build resilience and to carry out regular risk assessments. in this respect, national authorities will be able to carry out on-site inspections of critical infrastructure and to impose sanctions in case of non-compliance. the incident alert process and cross-border communication between the national contact points to be established will play an important role. the successive crises that have tested the eu's essential infrastructure - the pandemic and the war - have made these legislative changes necessary and urgent. i therefore consider that the transposition of the directive by the member states must be carried out much more quickly than the two-year period provided for.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, to say that i welcome the adoption of this directive would be a gross understatement. i thank the parliament for your continued support and determination on this legislative initiative. the adoption of this directive is a step on the road to gender equality in europe. i am sure that the citizens of europe and businesses will benefit from its effect. the directive will help dismantle the barriers that prevent qualified women from arriving at the top. our investment in women’s education and, in turn, women’s investment in their qualifications, can only give long-term returns when women are recognised, valued and treated as equals at all levels of economic, social, professional and public life. so women’s role, place and voice at the economic – especially right now – decision-making table is of the essence for europe’s future when answering to the multiple crises europe is facing now.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european union is 70 years old and it is doing its job. it's about values and equality, and we've really come a long way in that. it's a mosaic of many, but it's a very important one that we've finally reached. we are finally giving women a fair chance to get into top positions of companies. women are smart, they're innovative, and they're just capable of so much, and that's something that should be portrayed. we all know that this is just one of many mosaic stones. but we all, we're still working on it. i would like to add a personal note to the thanks that lara wolters has just mentioned, because i have been working on this dossier for a very long time, and i am thinking of those who have been creative: let us ask the council again, let us try again to do something about press work, let us do all those things that we do as members of parliament. i would like to thank hannah buchinger, sabrina winter, melanie köller, stefanie ricken and inês de matos pinto for their work in this area. these are some of the amazing women who have just done the real drafting work. and i think that's exactly how women work: inclusive, inclusive, across party lines and across geographical and time lines. i congratulate all of us. now it's time to celebrate.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place today. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, after more than ten years we have finally reached an agreement and we have a legal document on women on company boards. this is a major step forward in gender equality policy. we agree that it is not normal that more than 60% of women in europe have a university education, but this figure does not reflect the decision-making positions where, unfortunately, women are in the minority. and that's a waste of talent and knowledge. i agree with the commissioner that we have made considerable progress in improving gender equality over the last decade, but the situation in the member states is very uneven and there are still significant differences between men's and women's pay and access to management positions. ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to change the attitude towards women that has become entrenched and, unfortunately, the norm. therefore, where voluntary measures fail, we must resort to legislative measures and thus ensure equal opportunities for women in the long term. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this historic achievement and i hope that today we will be able to turn a new page in the field of women's rights.
in writing. after 10 years of blockade and negotiations with the council, the time has finally come. a longstanding demand of the greens is being implemented: mandatory quotas for women on supervisory boards and executive boards. this is an important success in a very long process which will have to be implemented in the member states over the next two years! the end of the numerical patriarchy on leadership days has begun. the european parliament has succeeded in closing some important loopholes in the council text. for example, the transparency of selection procedures, the annual reporting obligation of companies and a faster implementation of the directive were achieved as successes. however, it is disappointing that the overall objectives are not more ambitious and there are a number of 'exceptions'. until the planned revision of the 2030 directive, we will closely monitor member states' performance and ensure that additional action is taken if the expected progress is not achieved. we will continue to fight for more ambitious goals as greens/efa!
madam prime minister, prime ministers, members of the house.
dear speakers and presidents of national parliaments, dear colleagues, in 1952, here in strasbourg, paul-henri spaak presided over the opening of the first ever session of the common assembly of the european coal and steel community. it was the starting point of this institution’s plenary activity. in 70 years, the assembly grew from strength to strength. in 1962, it changed name to become the european parliament. in 1973, it opened its first own institutional hemicycle in luxembourg, where many of our staff members still sit. over time, parliamentary committees’ and political groups’ activity grew in brussels, as increased powers came with the responsibility of exercising increased scrutiny over the other european union institutions. this institution embodies european reconciliation. it matters that we are here in alsace today as a living symbol of how far we have come. symbolism is important, but this house is so much more. over the years, consecutive treaties have allowed our house of democracy to develop into a powerful, independent political forum with co-legislative and budgetary powers that impact millions of european citizens – that protects the best interests of citizens, that reflects and amplifies the voice of 500 million people. today, the european parliament has become the only directly elected, multilingual, multi-party transnational parliament in the world. its 705 directly elected members are the expression of european public opinion. with an ongoing illegal war in ukraine that destroys, kills and undermines the political will of a people, we are reminded again of the importance of upholding the democratic values and voice of citizens, and the democratic european values that this house stands for. that is why it is important that we mark the european parliament’s 70th anniversary. it is important that we pause to reflect on our achievements: the achievement of getting europeans to seek and find compromise and to come together to adopt a common agenda for the benefit of us all; the achievement of making our shared space a little bit safer, a little bit fairer, a little bit more equal; the achievement of creating a union of rights, of values, of solidarity, of equality, of peace, of hope. from the ashes of war, we have found the wisdom, the courage and the humanity to choose to stand together, to tear down walls and unite people and nations. together we can continue our mission to tackle generational inequalities, to fight crippling poverty, to keep us safer and ensure our security, to ensure equality of opportunity, to fight discrimination, to stand up for women, to show our lgbtiq community that this truly is a freedom zone, to create a framework for prosperity and economic growth, to beat climate change, to help create jobs, to ensure dignity to all. i am not here to say that we are perfect. we are not. our processes sometimes frustrate. progress is not always fast enough, or deep enough or easy enough. we must keep reforming, we must keep pushing for positive change, day—in day—out. but i am proud of our achievements, of our way, of europe being a beacon of the defence of democracy, of the way that we have never been indifferent, of how we have never looked away. friends, europe is the answer to so many of the questions our people ask of us. it is a way of life and a way of living. it was no coincidence that the eu flag was raised over kherson after so many months of brutal occupation. it is because it symbolises hope, courage and belief. this is the legacy of our europe, the legacy of this house, the legacy of the last 70 years.
it is in this capacity that the members of this parliament, which i have the honour of presiding over, meet to vote democratically every month in strasbourg. it is for the respect of human rights that this parliament is fighting for the neighbouring people, who are suffering from democracy. and it is to honour the current needs of our european citizens, hard hit by inflation and the cost of living, that we will continue to seek, again and again, solutions to our common challenges.
ladies and gentlemen, i now invite you to watch a video clip prepared for the 70th anniversary of the european parliament. (the video clip was broadcast in the chamber)
prime minister of the kingdom of belgium. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today’s europe is not necessarily pushed forward by visionary leaders like the ones we know from our history books – schuman, spinelli, spaak. today, europe’s political project is mainly driven forward by visionary citizens, by the people of europe. and that is not abnormal. we do not live anymore in the 1950s. people today are empowered. they are more demanding towards those who are in positions of leadership. and, all in all, that is a healthy evolution, because free and autonomous citizens, together with a free and independent press, are the core of our democracy. they are the guarantee of strong democratic accountability. we have felt that public pressure during the covid crisis. while politicians tended to point out that, from an institutional point of view, healthcare was a national competency and vaccines were none of europe’s business, it was public opinion, it was the people of europe who paved the way for a european response to the pandemic. as president von der leyen coined it very candidly: this is europe’s moment. and we now see exactly the same happening in this energy crisis. it is europeans who see that the energy markets are international, not national. that energy prices are being used as a geopolitical weapon. that individual member states hit the limits of what they can do on their own. but that europe should not be impotent. that our sovereignty – our ability to act – is not only at a national level but at a european level. and, you know, that insight is not new to european citizens. it was already the case before the energy crisis broke out. in 2019, 90% of europeans thought it was also europe’s task to guarantee the security of energy supply and to keep energy prices under control. ladies and gentlemen, this house probably captures best the impatience of our population, because you know from experience what it is to fight long and hard for your rightful place in the union. the european parliament has always been the first institution in the formal sense: first in the treaties and first in protocol. but for a long time, it was not first in policy-making. in the words of professor david farrell, for much of its life the european parliament could have been labelled a ‘multilingual talking shop’. but today, it is ‘one of the most powerful legislators in the world’. today, we europeans can be proud of the road we have travelled together. madame la présidente, mesdames et messieurs, cela étant dit, le travail est loin d’être terminé. la démocratie est une œuvre sans cesse inachevée. si l’on veut réellement renforcer notre démocratie, il faut aussi s’attacher à renforcer ce parlement européen. il aurait été bizarre de ne pas avoir d’applaudissements par rapport à cela! ... tous les défis majeurs – quels qu’ils soient: la guerre en ukraine, les flux migratoires, les prix de l’énergie –, tous ces défis se jouent au niveau international. nous devons donc renforcer notre démocratie à ce même niveau international, à notre niveau européen. car le monde change et nous devons changer avec lui. nous le disons souvent au public, à nos électeurs: il est temps de changer. mais peut-être devrions-nous plus souvent le dire à nous-mêmes. de nombreux pays aux frontières orientales de l’europe, dans les balkans occidentaux, mais aussi en ukraine, en moldavie, conçoivent leur avenir dans notre famille. et cette nouvelle réalité devrait nous pousser à repenser nos repères. elle nous force à franchir de nouvelles étapes dans la démocratie européenne pour avoir, dans les années et les décennies à venir, une action qui sera plus décisive et pour être mieux armés pour protéger les intérêts européens dans le monde. nous comptons sur cette assemblée pour jouer ce rôle. nous continuerons à relier bruxelles et les citoyens européens. quelle que soit la voie que nous choisirons, le parlement européen fera immanquablement un nouveau bond en avant, en devenant vraiment la première institution de l’europe. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am optimistic about the future. as you said, our european democracy is far from perfect. it needs continuous improvement. but it is not the delicate plant we thought it to be over the past couple of years. our democracy is more resilient than we sometimes think, and this parliament is actually the best proof of that. i would like to honour the fundamental work this parliament has done in protecting democracy and the rule of law in europe. we cannot leave this fight for fundamental rights to the courts only. we politicians also have to do our part of the heavy lifting. as a member of the european council, i applaud the persistence of this parliament and the front-runner role that this parliament has played in this domain. we need you, we need your support to be a vigilant watchdog in that domain. still more has to be done together with you – from the european green deal, to energy security and transition to migration reform. we still have 18 months left before the end of this mandate. the belgian council presidency that we will have in 2024 will stand ready to engage with you to successfully close the chapter of this legislature. let me be clear: you are a key partner to us, day-in day-out. you are part and parcel of the european fabric and you are also part and parcel of the fabric of my country. and so i would like to say simply: thank you to the parliament. thank you to the parliament and its leadership, with a special mention of the late president sassoli. thank you for the solidarity it has shown with the people of brussels during the covid crisis and the ukraine refugee during this crisis. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me finish by saying this house represents the catharsis of a long history of violence between european countries. this parliament represents the victory of humanity over nationalism. it represents the best in us, the best in us europeans. it is the parliament of parliaments. and so, we look forward to a year of celebrations with european citizens, but we especially look forward to a year of continuing work together with you.
prime minister of the grand duchy of luxembourg. madam president, madam prime minister, mr prime minister, the film you showed us has brought back many memories. memories of my youth. memories of people i had the chance to work with like mr sassoli, people like the one who - and she was your first elected president - represents for me what europe is, simone veil. i have an institutional speech, madam president. i will give you a copy of it. to thank everyone, of course, and to congratulate and wish you a happy birthday. but this movie makes me say something else. so, happy birthday, happy 70 years! of course, prime minister de croo said that we had to bring brussels closer to the citizens. i am sure mrs borne will say that we must bring strasbourg closer to the citizens. so i could also say that we must bring luxembourg closer to the citizens. but i will only say that we must bring each european capital and above all each citizen closer to the european project as we know it. and thank you also for the general secretariat in the grand duchy of luxembourg. i think that relations with the luxembourg government are also very good. we will continue to do everything we can to improve the situation of the people without whom your work would not be possible. so let me go back to that film and explain why we're talking about simone veil. here we are in a convention that was established in 1952, so before the treaty of rome. seven years earlier, france and germany and the european continent were at war. seven years later, in 1945, the war ended. seven years later, we decided to build something together, in a parliamentary assembly, to want to do something we hadn't done before: instead of destroying each other, we wanted to build something together. so why do i care so much about simone veil, and was it such a strong symbol to have elected her in 1979? simone veil is a survivor of the concentration camps. and those concentration camps were in our territory. these concentration camps are the result of nationalism, extremism, nazism, one of the darkest ideologies that we have known on our european soil. while, madam president, some people in some european countries still try to make it seem as if this was the solution to all problems and even defend or deny the existence of the gas chambers, simone veil could tell you what she experienced during the second world war. and i think chancellor kohl has described it well. it is a peace project. our european continent, this european union, has not known conflict or war between its countries since 1952, since 1957. it's not always easy. but we have not known the armed conflicts that we have known before. and let's not forget that in our own territory, at that time, many of us would not have had the right to live because we were left-wing, because we were trade unionists, because we were disabled, because we were homosexuals, because we were simply different from the ideology. today we are in a territory where you are elected by citizens who can exercise this right freely. and here in the european parliament you have a task which is so important to us, namely to remind us of these values too. i don't want to make a link and stigmatize one or the other now. we in the european union tend to say what is happening and what is wrong on the other side of the world, but i must also tell you that even for us in our european family it is important to recall the values, the rules and the backbone that must unite us. i am happy and i can speak for many rights: yesterday in malta, a breakthrough for women's freedom. but today journalists, judges cannot practice their profession freely in countries within the european union. some countries stigmatize sexual minorities. is that acceptable? i'm not going. i really insist that your parliament reminds us of this and that conditionality also in relation to the values which are the backbone of the european union should be part of the decisions that are taken. we have the impression that peace is something acquired, that rights are something acquired. and i feel it myself. you know, i myself have spoken about this second world war and i have already made this comparison in other places, but i say to you again today: i am proud to have so many young people sitting around here, because you are the european project. during the second world war, i myself would not have had the right to live, being a liberal, being of jewish origin by my family, being married to a belgian man, it has nothing to do, but it is simply the fact of being gay, of being of jewish origin and of being a liberal that would have condemned me to death three times. and today, i am free before you. i am an elected head of government and that is the european project. we may be different, we may have different opinions, we may have different backgrounds, but this richness is not a limit. this is the richness of our european continent, this diversity. and we must not let it be destroyed. and if we are to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the european parliament this year, that diversity must remain our strength. we must not allow ourselves to be divided, whether at the level of the european council, the parliament or the european commission. and i thank the president of the european commission and the members of the european commission for reminding us of the obligations we have given ourselves. europe is not only about receiving, it is also about giving so that we can have something greater together today, let us not forget that. happy birthday, and i hope i can count on you and your parliament to remind us of these values regularly.
prime minister of the french republic. madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the european commission, prime ministers, presidents of the national parliaments, commissioners, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, for 70 years france has had the honour and the pride of hosting the european parliament right here in strasbourg, the centre of the democratic life of our union. seventy years. it was an institution born in the aftermath of the war, in the early hours of a europe intended to ensure peace and which, very early on, had the intuition that dialogue and political construction were needed. an institution marked by women and men: robert schuman, one of the founding fathers; simone veil, the first woman to preside over the european parliament; this is david sassoli, the great european who left us in early 2022. it is you, all of you, the elected representatives of the european citizens, who carry the voices and aspirations of the european people. seventy years. it is an opportunity to look back on a history, a journey marked by essential achievements. the first step is to achieve universal suffrage. initially, meps were appointed by national parliaments, then direct universal suffrage was introduced in 1976 and the first elections were held in june 1979. for more than 40 years, you have therefore become not only members of the european parliament, but members of the european people, who represent them directly. skill acquisition, then. while it initially had only a supervisory role, the european parliament steadily gained wider powers, taking on new powers of control or legislative powers with each revision of the european treaties, until the treaty of lisbon in 2009 established codecision as the ordinary legislative procedure. all this was done for the benefit of the european parliament, of course, but above all for the benefit of europe as a whole. because where the european parliament has gained in powers, europe has gained in democracy. and that democracy, we will never stop defending. at a time when some are attacking it in ukraine, at a time when authoritarian regimes want to make it look weak, we must be proud of our democracy, proud of our values. because let us not forget that behind the invasion of ukraine, it is democracy and human rights that russia is attacking, that is to say the very foundation of what brings us together here. the european parliament, with its vigorous action and its determination to defend equality, freedom and solidarity, is a sharp refutation of these destructive attempts. the heart of democracy has been beating right here in strasbourg for 70 years. a birthday is also an opportunity to look into the future. the immediate future is the end of this parliamentary term, when so many major projects are under way. i am thinking of several essential pieces of legislation: for the ecological transition, with the 'fit for 55' package; for the reform of the schengen area, which is so valuable to our fellow citizens; for the european union's role in the world economy, which is a vital part of the european union's future. the european union is committed to the conquest of our sovereignty, our energy, digital, technological and strategic sovereignty, by implementing the versailles agenda. this list is of course not exhaustive. it does show, however, that you are at the heart of all the challenges of our time. the next few months will be busy. you can count on france to promote agreements and work towards a stronger, more united, more sovereign europe. under the authority of the president of the republic, we will do so. then it will be time for the elections to the european parliament. this democratic revival, which takes place every five years, is structural in the life of the union. i hope that this election will be an opportunity for genuine debate in our countries so that we can continue to build together a europe of action, a europe at the service of our citizens. ladies and gentlemen, i shall end where i began, with reference to strasbourg. strasbourg is a symbol, a city with a history. in these times of rising nationalisms and attempts to rewrite the past, in these times of renewed war on the european continent, we must never cease to remember where europe came from, what it suffered, why we did it and what it has achieved. by embodying the reconciliation of the peoples of europe, strasbourg shows the strength of the union and the power of peace. every month, when european actors gather in strasbourg, they pay tribute to our history and to the very idea of europe. of course, there may be practical questions and my government is fully committed to providing answers. but we must not let this distract us from the essential. at its core, strasbourg is a certain idea of europe. the idea of a europe that is being built and written in different places on the european territory, of a europe that has a common past and a common future. this europe, this europe rich in the diversity of its inhabitants and its territories, is the best antidote to the harmful talk about a technocratic and disconnected europe. the vitality of the european parliament is the vitality of europe and that is why i wanted to celebrate this important anniversary for the union with all of you, members of the european parliament, and through you with all europeans, because this important anniversary concerns us all.
chair of the group of the european people's party. – madam president of the european parliament, commission president, dear prime ministers, 70 years of the european parliament, our parliament. i have to share with you my personal experience. when i entered the first time into this institution, into this building, i fell immediately in love with this institution. i experienced a parliament where everybody counts. i was young, 31 years old, and i immediately got the trust of my colleagues to deal with an important piece of legislation, in the libe file, in the libe committee. dear colleagues, when you understand that diversity, to have a colourful perspective about different ideas to solve problems, when you understand that this diversity is an advantage, then you fell in love with the european parliament and that is what i did when entered here the first time. it is a very thin line here in this house to have on the one hand the party political position in mind but also the majority position, and you are defending the interests of this institution, the chamber of the european citizens. it is not the party that is in the centre here, not the chancellor, not the prime minister, not even the commission president, it is the bigger ‘we’, the bigger common interest which finally is driving this institution. 70 years ago, we hear that our colleagues gathered here in strasbourg for the first time, seven years – you said it, prime minister – after the brutal second world war had ended. unbelievable bravery what they showed to us as europeans. today, it’s now the right moment to celebrate this. the house of democracy: a place where all europeans are represented, a place where our political ideas from the common good bring us together, a place where a multinational parliament with broad, real legislative power like no other in the world is present. my group, the epp, has always believed that only a democratic europe – with a strong parliamentarian democracy – is a europe which has future. since its first official meeting of my group in june 53, my group contributed to strengthening this house, to being ambitious in the leadership in the spirit of cooperation with other political forces and together we were successful. but now we can go further, probably even much further. after this big success in 2014, when the first time this house – jean-claude juncker, martin schulz – managed that the commission president was based mainly on the majority here in this house, in 2019 we made other experiences. now we have to prepare 2024. and the idea behind this is that people see that if they go to vote, they participate, they decide about the majorities, we come here together as elected people, and then we decide the programme and also the candidates for the next five years who has the power to do it. the people in europe see the direct link between their participation in elections and then the outcome in political terms. that is what we want to guarantee. and don’t get me wrong, as an epp group leader and as epp president, i am very proud that the first elected female president of the european commission is an epp candidate and the youngest president of the european parliament, also a female candidate, is an epp member, so we do not need a quota for this, we are very proud about this. when we speak about the strengthening of democracy, i want to underline that we should not continue legislative proposals based on article 122, sounds technical but is very democratically important. we have to strengthen the european parliament with the full right of legislative initiatives, with full rights on the budget and with the full right of investigation in the interest of our citizens. so there is still a way in front of us. and i see the council members now in front of me, i would ask you, i really count on you, that council members are not doing these speeches here in this house but also when they are at home, that we really are strong in developing even a stronger european parliament. and at a time when democracy is under attack, like it is in ukraine, we have to be the beacon of democracy for europe and the world. it’s a great honour to serve in this institution. all the best for the upcoming 70 years.
president of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a peculiar commemoration, we might say, because the ecsc assembly had little to do with this parliament. to begin with, it had seventy-eight members from six countries and also delegates from national parliaments. and i say delegates, because there was only one woman. and it is true that today we have a president of the european commission - and here i have to correct president weber a little bit because she is not a candidate of the epp, she is our president - voted and supported by this house, as is the president of the european parliament. they represent institutions and they represent what we all stand for. the assembly at that time had no building and was given the council of europe hall. look, we have this great building now. with the direct elections of 1979 and the increase in powers, this house has been completely transformed. but perhaps the most obvious change is that we are here today representing 500 million europeans from 27 countries. that was a europe cut in two by the iron curtain. the first president of the assembly, paul-henry spaak, said that the community was not born against anyone, but for freedom, so that more and more people could benefit from the peace and prosperity brought by democracy and the rule of law. that is the case, although there are no countries. i have just been to north macedonia and albania, where negotiations are now beginning. and others will come, like ukraine and moldova. the important thing is to go deeper into democracy, which is the cornerstone, because there are no wars between democracies. as i say, things change because this is a living parliament. the conference on the future of europe has given us clues as to the way forward and how we should react more quickly to crises, manage migration better, make progress on social policies and build on solidarity. all this means moving towards a more political union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i feel that way when people from hungary and poland ask us not to abandon them to the authoritarian drift of their governments. some people are now saying that the union has strayed from its roots. but that's not true. because the members of that house in 1952 understood perfectly well that european democracy does not weaken national democracy but strengthens it. the same way that european citizenship complements and strengthens national citizenship. now it is up to us to keep our spirits up and adapt to the new times.
co-chair of the green group/european free alliance. madam president, on 14 july 2009, i sat in the european parliament for the first time. i will never forget the pride i felt in becoming one of the 736 representatives charged with working in the general interest of 500 million european citizens. i can tell you, and it is a bit emotional, that pride is intact on this day when we celebrate the 70th anniversary of our parliament. the european union is the world's first attempt at transnational democracy and, while it remains an imperfect and incomplete construction, it is more than ever a prototype to be developed in an increasingly fragmented and polarized world. together, we represent only 5.6 percent of the world's population. therefore, acting together, united in our diversity, is the sine qua non of the affirmation of our sovereignty, sovereignty being understood as our ability to make together and autonomously the choices that determine our future. if that is our aim, then i think that the european parliament has three challenges to meet in its role as the direct representative of the citizens of europe. the first challenge is that of ambition. the world is facing existential challenges: to keep our planet habitable for humans, to reduce the growing social injustices, to provide a future for the people who have been forced to leave their countries, to establish international relations based on law and not on violence. we may be tempted to retreat into an idealized comfort, that of a fantasy past. if the european union is to forge a future in the 21st century, it must instead become more bold and regain a pioneering spirit. the second challenge is that of compromise. all around us and within our countries, the polarization of our societies into antagonistic blocs seems inevitable. on the contrary, more than ever, our parliament must demonstrate the strength of dialogue and compromise, which alone can bring about lasting solutions guaranteeing the possibility for all to live together in peace. let us prove that our diversity and differences, far from being handicaps, are just as much an asset to building our future. the third challenge is to preserve democracy and the rule of law, the very foundations on which our union is built. without them, neither peace nor prosperity, which are essential conditions for the dignity of all, can exist in a lasting way. in the last century, europe has seen the collapse of democracies, a prelude to the horrors of the second world war. we know that this political regime, which churchill said was the worst of all except for all the others, is fragile and deadly. and in the name of urgency, opportunity or simply the seizure of power, we see the assaults on democracy and the rule of law within our union itself. the european parliament must respond to these attacks, regardless of the member state in which they occur or the political affiliation of those who commit them. but let us never forget that democracies die first of all from the loss of confidence of our societies in their institutions and in those who embody them... those and those who embody them... yes, there are still a few men, but you are right, there were many men at the beginning. it is up to us to do our part to restore this trust by constantly adopting the general interest as the sole compass for all our actions, and not the interest of a few. i believe that our assembly is capable of meeting these challenges and of establishing itself more than ever as the place of excellence for building our common future.
chairman of the identity and democracy group. madam president, madam president von der leyen, prime ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is 70 years since the joint assembly of the european coal and steel community was set up. it was 1952, and europe was very different from what we know today. the great wars were over and we were preparing for a future of peace and development with great hope. at that time, there were only 78 members of parliament, appointed by the national parliaments of the member states. today we are almost ten times as many, 705, and each of us is here because the citizens, by their vote, chose us to represent them. i think it is also necessary on this occasion to remind everyone, but first of all ourselves, of the value of democracy and the respect we owe to the citizens we represent in this house. the weight and scale of our action in parliament must be guided by the importance of the challenges ahead and by the hopes that people, citizens, have for the institution of which we are a part. and democracy in a context of national peculiarities, of different sensibilities and cultures which are close but which maintain their own identity means first of all respect for these differences and not flattening on a single model of thinking. we must encourage everyone to rediscover that sense of common interest in facing up to the challenges and finding effective and rapid solutions to the dark times we are unfortunately living through, and i invite you to reflect, to recover that very spirit which in 1952 gave the impetus to the creation of what this institution is today. at that time, it was through the ecsc that the states expressed the importance of such fundamental elements to guarantee the continent's autonomy, development and strategy. resources and energy: the commission has already made a number of proposals. this fact should lead us to ask ourselves: how did we get to where we are today? why have we decided, first politically and then in practice, to delegate such strategic matters to others? why have we succumbed to the sirens of indiscriminate globalisation, even at the industrial level? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. i believe that we have much to learn from our predecessors and i hope that today's event will encourage each of us to recover the roots of this project and to take a different line in the present, but above all in our future. and, in conclusion, there is one more thing that i think is lacking in this institution to be able to say fully realized: the european parliament has a duty to support the democratic opposition, which represents millions of european citizens. when we reach this stage, we can really say that democracy is finally respected and fully represented in this house and in this institution.
chair of the european conservatives and reformists group. – madam president, prime ministers, two minutes of truth, of bitter truth. the bitter truth is that the european parliament has done a lot of damage in europe. it has been sending a false message that it represents the european demos. there isn’t, and there won’t be any european demos. the parliament has infected europe with shameless partisanship and the infection became so contagious that it spread to other institutions such as the european commission. the parliament has abandoned the basic function of representing people. instead, it has become a machine to implement the so—called european project, thus alienating millions of voters. the parliament has become a political vehicle of the left to impose their monopoly with their fierce intolerance towards any dissenting view. no matter how many times you repeat the word ‘diversity’, diversity is becoming an extinct species in the european union, and particularly in this chamber. the parliament is a quasi parliament because it rejects the essential principle of parliamentarism – namely accountability. the deputy, let me remind you, is elected by the voters and must be accountable to the voters that elected him. not so in the european union. the idea that, say, spanish, german, french, etc. deputies, accountable to their own national electorates, can dictate something to, shall we say, hungarian society or any other society to which they cannot be held accountable and which cannot take them to task is simply preposterous. colleagues, call it what you will, but democracy it is not. to sum up, the parliament represents the genius that does not exist, works for the project that ignores reality and law, shuns accountability, turns its back on millions of people and serves the interests of one political orientation – and this is just the tip of the iceberg. having said that, ladies and gentlemen, i rest my case.
professor legutko, with your two minutes you have indeed proven that pluralism, diversity and democracy actually exist in this house.
on that note, distinguished guests, fellow europeans, i would like to invite you to stand for the anthem of the european union. (beethoven’s ode to joy was sung by the choir ‘les voix de stras’ in the chamber)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to remind you that mr roberto maroni, former vice-president of the italian council, several times minister of the republic, and for many years member of parliament and governor of the lombardy region, has sadly passed away this morning. he leaves a void in politics, to which he has made an important contribution in his institutional roles, including in the building of the european institutions over the last thirty years, but above all he leaves us with a man who is well-liked, always pragmatic and always ready to discuss even with his political opponent. we were pleased that this house would remember him today in his commitment as an italian politician and as a european politician.
madam speaker, i know we all want a quick vote, but excuse me. i want to speak very strongly against the recent speech by hungarian prime minister viktor orbán. and i want to ask my colleagues and colleagues at fidesz, whom i respect, to tell their prime minister that slovakia, romania and other countries are sovereign states. on the occasion of today's anniversary celebrations, i would like to ask hungary to respect the territorial integrity of romania and slovakia.
president of the committee on budgets. the outcome of the conciliation on the 2023 budget has resulted in a number of reorientations and savings as well as a number of important and necessary reinforcements. the following additional resources were made available to support ukrainian society: the total amount of the assistance was ecu 290 million, financed through various programmes. everyone will agree that ukrainian society and its citizens are in dire need of such support. we can expect other global players, such as the us, to follow suit. in addition to the necessary and obviously acute expenditure, we are also investing further in areas where the eu can make a real difference through the 2023 budget. these are steps in the right direction, but they are too small and not ambitious enough for my taste. the european union is still too tightly bound to past policy options that place a large mortgage on the future. we can't let that slow us down. i would like to see a budget that is even more forward-looking, that is even more focused rather than fragmented and that reflects the ambition to make europe a leader in research, development and innovation. the re-design of our supply chains is also urgent and necessary, with the aim of strategically reducing our dependence on regimes that reject our values and standards. if you feel that i am now thinking mainly of china, you have come to the right conclusion. the geopolitical context shows us on several fronts that such a redrawing is necessary. the multiannual financial framework as it currently exists also has its limits. the instrument in its present form is no longer suited to provide answers to the major challenges of today and tomorrow. the fact that solutions and vehicles outside the budget have to be set up is symptomatic of this. it indicates that the multiannual framework is no longer able to absorb everything in the right way. but at least as problematic is the fact that control over expenditure is being considerably eroded. on the large items of expenditure outside the regular budget, such as the corona recovery fund, the rrf, this parliament cannot properly exercise its control function. parliament is supposed to approve the creation of such mechanisms, but it has to advise on the actual implementation and spending of these funds. it is my duty as chairman of the committee on budgets to point this out and to continue to do so.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner hahn, minister bek, right now a mother is turning on the oven to cook for her children only once a week, so as not to consume gas, which has become so expensive. right now, a student from sibiu is giving up on his plan to study in france, because 500 euros is not 500 euros anymore, but 420 euros because of inflation, and the rent has gone up enormously. right now, extremists are preparing to set fire to the union, and if we don't respond to these crises in 2023, by 2024 it will be far too late. we fought together with those who were shadow rapporteurs here, with whom we were a team, to get more for europe and for europeans, and we got one billion euros more, for three directions that correspond to the directions that people have asked us for, and these are energy and lower bills. we got an extra 80 million for horizon europe, an extra 100 million for facilitating connecting europe which finances energy and transport networks. an additional 30 million for the life program which is not just about the environment, it's also about energy. two, we fought to mitigate the effects of war. we got 120 million euros for erasmus+, for students who are suffering in europe, 50 million more for the asylum fund, and from this money we want to see money that goes to schengen, so that we don't have any more excuses on december 8 and let romania, bulgaria and croatia in, because we have all the necessary equipment. we got 210 million euros for ukraine and moldova, because these people are suffering not only from the war, they are suffering from the cold. and finally, and this is important for the european union, for our integration, we got extra money, over 60 million euros for military mobility, because it's important to be together in the face of global crises. let's not forget one thing. european society is important. churchill said, "if we cut off the money for culture during the war, what are we fighting for?" exactly, i fought for people in the culture to be helped. we fought for european civil protection, we fought for the european health that was just born and, not least, we fought for the european public prosecutor's office, headed by laura codruța kovesi, to ensure transparency and fairness in the use of european money. ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has fought through these negotiations and is responding today with a solid budget of €186 billion. it is a very important budget, but we have a problem, commissioner, if we give more money for policies at home, and if we are told at home that we cannot implement them, that we are not bringing the money home, then we are boasting in vain, i say stefanie, mr hahn, mrs bek, that we support these important policies, if the member states fail and if people do not see the result of my work. i think, mr president, that it is a good day for europe today. we show unity, we show determination. but let's see, let's bring europe into people's homes.
mr. high representative, 6.5 million tons of grain have passed through romania, taken from ukraine and transferred on. just a few days ago, a new border crossing point was opened in the north of the country, in relation to ukraine, just to be able to help them even more. but the question i raise is this. the russian federation is conducting an extremely aggressive disinformation campaign in many, many countries in the middle east or africa, which puts us in a very delicate situation. while we are helping to get grain from ukraine to where it is needed, to its destination, russia, however, is conducting a disinformation campaign, trying to distort reality, and i think that here more communication is needed to be able to explain that we are helping, not russia.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. henry kissinger and walden bello, two very different politicians, far away from us here, predicted war between the united states and china. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. so what is europe's interest today in relations with china? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. and this will not be achieved by confrontation, however different the approaches. knowledge of history always plays a part. that is why our interest as nobel peace prize laureates must be and remains dialogue, listening and rethinking our own positions, precisely because the so-called rest of the world is in fact by far the largest part of the world. europe can no longer force china, mr foreign minister. we must convince our partners, both in partnership and in systemic competition, because the enormous potential of europe and china must be mobilized and brought to fruition together and synergies must be created.
madam president, high representative/vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, as a number of colleagues have pointed out in tonight’s debate, the relations between the people’s republic of china and the european union have been affected by so many different items – disproportionate counter-sanctions, cases of economic coercion and chinese convergence with russia, just to name a few. china is the only country with both the intent to reshape the international order and the economic, diplomatic, military and technological power to actually do so. china will continue to be a major global player with whom the european union must speak, work, trade and negotiate in areas of common and global interest. therefore, high representative/vice-president, for this reason, the european union’s engagement with china should be, as we have often pointed out, principled, practical and pragmatic. but at the same time, the european union needs to stand firm in defending our values and interests. to reduce our vulnerabilities, to increase our resilience, to address our security concerns and to engage with our partners – from the more distant to the like—minded – are all important lines of action.
madam president, mr high representative, yes, it’s high time we debate our relations with china, which are essential for the european union, our role as a global actor and our future development. the most essential task is to unite the position of member states on this, and we continue to see individual actions that affect us all. we should simultaneously work on our industry redeployment as we work on energy independence. members of this house are still sanctioned for speaking the truth about evident human rights violations. moreover, we see reports on illegal chinese policing in the european union. russian aggression in ukraine is also testing our relations. it’s essential to talk, open up a long list of difficult questions and stand firm in defending our stances. but while we can discuss with china global challenges and negotiate the rules on how we trade in goods, we should never trade our values.
madam president, high representative, dear colleagues, making choices in politics is never easy. we have indulged for decades in economic past dependencies. we pretended that ideologies do not matter, that half democracies are fine. and look what we have achieved. russia, our biggest energy trading partner, is bombing civilians every day. at our doorstep in china, our largest trading partner overall, is itself challenging the rule-based order we worked so hard to build. i agree, high representative, but we cannot afford total economic decoupling, and that there are areas where we must and can work together with china. but, we cannot continue to sell our ports to regimes that do not share our values. we cannot fly chinese drones to inspect our critical infrastructure and we cannot pretend that chinese technology is safe as long as it is state-controlled. there is no piece of hardware or software, no matter how small or apparently insignificant, that cannot contain an embedded backdoor spy program. and there is no security audit invented that can guarantee a full check. the same stands true for raw materials, where the risk is not a direct security exposure but a threat to our critical supply chains. so let us wake up high representative, to this geopolitical reality and do something about it.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you very much for this exchange. the comprehensive report on the middle east that you are presenting today testifies to your strong interest in the region. rest assured that we will thoroughly analyse and consider all recommendations included in your report. it is timely that the chair of the committee on foreign affairs (afet) and colleagues will soon follow up on it with a mission to the region. during your visit, you will be able to see first-and that this is a region in full transformation, including in the field of human rights. parliamentary democracy is paramount to the success of our foreign policy. finally, to ms neumann, let me give you just one figure. in the last cycle of appointments, we appointed women to 46% of all head of delegation positions. only 20% of all the applicants were women, so we are working on this task, and this is not going to come about within just one year.
it’s a very interesting topic, mr pineda, thank you for your work. that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by tonino picula, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy concerning the new eu strategy for enlargement (2022/2064(ini)) (a9-0251/2022).
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, thank you for the opportunity to present recommendations of the house on the new enlargement strategy. thank you also for entrusting me with this important task at a time when enlargement becomes geopolitically strategic policy after 10 years of fatigue. the russian aggression in ukraine has had a tectonic impact on many of our policies. we all agree that a new impetus is needed to re-energise the enlargement process, ensuring its continuity, efficiency, credibility, and impact. council conclusions, the agreement on the candidacy status for ukraine and moldova, and the recognition of the european perspective for georgia are strong political signs of support. with this decision, the scope of the enlargement policy was officially extended to the eastern partnership countries. therefore our internal administrative structures and external financial instruments will need to be adjusted accordingly. in the context of the before-mentioned conclusions and the expectations from the western balkans, i wish to highlight one of the main messages of the draft text. each enlargement country should be judged on its own merits. as the eu, we should overcome the enlargement gridlock by revamping the accession process both as a political goal and methodology. for that, we believe we need a new eu strategy for enlargement in which we have to define clear and transparent policy objectives and implement the necessary and timely institutional reforms. the reform processes of the enlargement policy and internal reforms of the eu should go hand in hand. in fact, the enlargement process can encourage much-awaited eu reforms. the rule of law should be at the centre of the process. we should strategically apply targeted conditionality based on clear progress benchmarks. that means timely rewarding reforms and reacting on the regression or a persistent lack of progress. in the same context, we must emphasise the alignment of accession countries with the eu’s common foreign and security policy. eu membership means more than just eu funds and transport corridors. before anything, it represents a set of values and principles to share and respect. i would also like to briefly present several novelties that are proposed in this document. clear deadlines for concluding negotiations with the accession countries, and these negotiations should finish by the end of this decade. qualified—majority decision on the start of the negotiations, and opening and closing of individual chapters. the final decision would still be unanimous, but i believe this would be a leap of trust in the process that some issues can be solved through negotiating. we cannot lose time once again, like in the case of north macedonia and albania. chief negotiator from the eu side for each country: this could benefit the transparency of the process, primarily when we communicate with the citizens of candidate countries. establishing a framework for effective cooperation between the european public prosecutor’s office and the accession countries to facilitate close cooperation and the prosecution of the misuse of eu funds. a formal assessment of accession countries under the eu’s rule—of—law mechanism and report, and the eu justice scoreboard, using the same indicators that apply to the member states to prevent a persistent lack of progress, severe deficiencies and regression. the creation of a special dedicated rule—of—law task force to be entrusted with developing more substantial and effective support to candidate and potential candidate countries. this goes along with the active involvement of judges and prosecutors from the member states. phasing-in of candidate countries to respective eu policies, initiatives and the single market, including access to eu funds in the respective areas. this will enable citizens to experience the benefits of accession throughout the process and not only upon its completion to reward sustainable progress. this house was always a prominent supporter of enlargement. with our joint work and by adopting solid recommendations on how the future enlargement policy should be implemented, we can once again set the tone and standards to enable the union to grow and prosper.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable rapporteur, honourable members. firstly, i would like to thank the rapporteur, tonino picula, for his report and this house for your continuous interest and support for our enlargement policy. the report addresses important challenges, but also confirms enlargement being, and i quote, ‘the most effective eu foreign policy instrument’. the report also points out that enlargement, and i quote, ‘remains a strategic investment in stability and prosperity on the european continent,’ and i couldn’t agree more. therefore, an enlargement policy based on clear criteria and standards and the own-merit principle remains in our geostrategic interest. before replying to your questions, let me quickly summarise the important decisions taken in the past few months to frame our discussion today. in june 2022, eu leaders recognised the european perspective of ukraine, the republic of moldova and georgia. they granted the candidate status to ukraine and moldova and affirmed that they would grant candidate status to georgia once the priorities specified in the commission’s opinion have been addressed. at the same time, eu leaders also reconfirmed the full and unequivocal commitment to the eu membership perspective of the western balkans. the european council called for acceleration of the accession process and for further advancement of the gradual integration between the eu and the western balkans. in july, we held the first intergovernmental conferences with albania and north macedonia. this was a major and long-awaited breakthrough. we immediately started the explanatory screening process, which is well on track. two weeks ago, we started the bilateral screening with both countries. to continue the list of major decisions, one of the most important elements of this year’s enlargement package is the commission’s recommendation to grant candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina. the commission recommends granting candidate status on the understanding that the critical set of reforms from the 14 key priorities are made. the proposal is the same formula as was followed in the case of ukraine and moldova. this recommendation is an important opportunity, demonstrating our commitment to the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina and, above all, a message to its citizens. next week i will be travelling to bosnia and herzegovina to discuss the eu reforms and the next steps. further, europe has responded with strength and unity to russia’s invasion of ukraine. but we need the mutual support of our closest allies, our neighbours. the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) has become more important following the war. however, according to our enlargement methodology and negotiating frameworks, the speed of the accession negotiations and the financial support to our regions remain based on progress in the fundamentals. it depends on the progress our partners make. therefore, we certainly believe that more and not less engagement is needed. finally, at the berlin process summit that took place in the beginning of this month, we announced a substantial energy support package of eur 1 billion for the western balkans. this will help the region to mitigate the increase of energy prices and their impact on the vulnerable households and smes over the immediate term. the package will support the energy transition and security in the western balkans over the short and medium term. we are convinced that, together with the implementation of the eur 30 billion economic and investment plan, this package will help the western balkans in addressing the immediate consequences of the energy crisis and build resilience and independence. it is a clear proof of our dedicated support, an unambiguous commitment in these difficult times, and the confirmation of our alliance.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, enlargement is part of the dna of the european union. the union is what it is today and thanks to the enlargement policy, thanks to the vision, ambition and determination of past generations of european politicians, european states are stronger today, more stable and more prosperous thanks to their membership of the european union. but for more than a decade now, the enlargement policy has unfortunately been put on hold. in the current geopolitical context, with successive crises, the interest of some partner states in the balkans and the eastern neighbourhood to become members of the european union has increased. the union must remain a pole of stability and this requires a strategic vision, a clear, unequivocal approach to the states concerned by the european project. and the report we are debating today comes with pragmatic, realistic, ambitious proposals to ensure the success of the enlargement to the western balkans and the eastern neighbourhood. but alongside our expectations of reform for the candidate countries, the european union must also prepare in advance to welcome new members.
madam president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, ‘the enlargement policy is the most effective eu policy’, states the report that we are debating right now and the statement is correct. through the enlargement policy, the european project has managed to create economic growth for european citizens and to keep peace through prosperity in europe since the second world war. moldova, along with ukraine, is a country that recently received a candidate status to eu. the finalisation of the accession process in the eu can take some time though, but we don’t have to wait for the whole process to finish in order for the people of moldova to feel closer to the other europeans. one simple and concrete step to reinforce the fact that the country is on the right path is for the eu to have a roaming agreement with moldova. signing such a roaming agreement is not a big effort for the eu, but it will make the world of difference for the people of moldova, enabling easier and affordable communication between the people of moldova and those family members who have left home, will help strengthen european integration long before any political decision does. i therefore call on all the eu institutions to work closely with the authorities from moldova to include the country in the roaming agreement, a benefit that will help both eu and the people of moldova.
madam president, commissioner, in the 1980s, which were the most cruel years of communism, 23 million romanians, including myself, lived in daily humiliation because of the elementary shortages of food, heat and electricity. they were given to us in small quantities, rarely enough to see that they existed, but we had no right to have them. four decades later, though living in the heart of democracy, millions of europeans risk experiencing the same humiliation. these people have a fundamental right to a decent life, but they can't afford it anymore. in the pandemic, the commission moved quickly and billions of euros went to big companies to help them survive. today, however, the commission is somehow unable to convince big companies that citizens have a right to survive, even though they have made huge (historic) profits on the backs of europeans. we need direct consumer support now, winter is here. the commission is offering us an unrealistic mechanism, which comes late, has only long-term effects and is very vague. is it for people, for smes or for speculators? maybe the committee is studying the psd campaign "down the bills!" because it seems to have been inspired by it, but not enough.
mr president, commissioner, at this very moment we are witnessing the european parliament's website go down. just hours after we voted this resolution declaring russia a state sponsor of terrorism. i don't believe in coincidences, i hope so, but it's extremely serious if we don't understand that what putin is doing today, if we don't stop him at the right time and support the ukrainians to the end, can mean a much bigger loss later. these people have killed in the last few months at least 22,000 citizens in mariupol, a city of over half a million citizens, where they destroyed 95% of everything. at this hour, as we debate in parliament, ukraine is under attack, the entire energy infrastructure is under attack. i think we don't need any more arguments to go all the way and support them and, obviously, support the reconstruction of this country that has been damaged by a state that supports terrorism.
mr president, those who think this debate is just about higher compensation for farmers or about promoting hunting are sorely mistaken. it is and must be about how we recover the lost balance between flora, fauna and man, because in my country the loss of this balance costs, costs us human lives. in a decade, romania has had the highest number of predator victims in the entire union. over 20 people killed and 200 injured, it's costing us decimated herds, closed farms, abandoned villages and millennia-old traditions protected by unesco on the brink of extinction. it costs us biodiversity loss, loss of grasslands and mountain landscapes. it costs us the degradation of an animal, the bear, who went from being king of the forest to being a scavenger, with four times less forest than sweden, romania has five times as many bears. with no food, they emerge from forests, cross roads, cause accidents, and enter people's yards, shops, schools, apartment blocks, and hospitals. i therefore ask the european commission, out of respect for the lives of hundreds of thousands of romanians who live in danger every day, to find a solution.
mr. president, "beware, urs!" - that's how we protect wild animals these days, but it's also how we protect people. a text message does nothing to solve the problem, which is that wild animals are left year after year without habitat because of illegal and aggressive logging. the forests are their home, their habitat and it's being lost year by year. but the fight between wild animal and man should not exist, that's not what civilization teaches us. civilization teaches us that there must be room for everyone. governments can do a lot more than just text, let's say, the right one. affected farmers have to wait months to receive their money for damages or simply don't know they are entitled to financial aid if they want to take action to prevent wildlife attacks. the habitat directive allows all of this, it allows. but governments have to do their part. my dear colleagues, instead of shouting at the moon about how we should eliminate the threat of wolves and bears, let us concentrate on prevention, cohabitation and education, which are necessary for a europe that cares about the environment.
mr president, i am one of the initiators of this resolution and i think it is extremely important to remember the message that we received from moscow immediately, as soon as this resolution was adopted by a large majority. but it amazes me that we have almost 100 colleagues who don't understand that russia is a state that supports forms of expression through acts of terrorism. in mariupol 22,000 civilians were killed, 95% of this city of over half a million citizens was destroyed. this regime supports and acts through terrorist methods, and the fact that they immediately reacted by attacking the european parliament's portal is clear evidence that they felt targeted and obviously we need to go further and support ukraine and the republic of moldova to deal with these aggressions from russia.
mr president, i believe that the security crisis has presented us with new challenges and that the european union has always overcome all the obstacles it has faced through two major decisions: on the one hand enlargement and on the other, more integration. and the states that were affected by russian aggression got the same response, they were invited to join the european union. but to help ukraine and the republic of moldova today we still need one extremely important step, namely that austria and the netherlands do not oppose the integration of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. moldova and ukraine can get as much money as we can give them, but they cannot survive economically unless they have the schengen border nearby so that they can integrate economically quickly. the delay in the enlargement of the schengen area is also making it very difficult for these countries economically.
mr. chairman, i voted in favour of this motion. it is imperative to realize that diabetes is unfortunately a disease that is very much on the rise and is still a dangerous disease. in europe, 35 million people suffer from this disease, and most of them are type 2 diabetic, which means that they are acquired, let's say, by lifestyle, by certain habits. and that presents a challenge, no doubt, but it also puts a strain on our health care system. it is important that states set clear, measurable targets, their plans, to prevent the emergence of this disease. i think that the report was very good, and i supported it, and it is important that it should be heard by those to whom it is addressed, that is, our european citizens, so that they can reflect on their own lifestyles.
that concludes this item.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, thursday, 24 november 2022, at 9:00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon session.
the next item is the debate on the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the 2030 political agenda road to the digital decade (com (2021) 0574 c9-0359/2021 2021/0293 cod)) (a9-0159/2022).
rapporteur. – mr commissioner, i am speaking in czech. – paní předsedající, cloudové služby, big data, umělá inteligence, veřejné služby online, digitální identifikace, přístup ke zdravotnickým dokumentům odkudkoliv nebo běžně využívané elektronické faktury, to není sci-fi, to musí být velmi brzy realita nás všech. evropa má šanci dnes úspěšně vykročit na cestu, která nás do konce dekády dovede k plné digitální transformaci naší ekonomiky i společnosti. do doby, kdy občané a firmy budou plně využívat výhody, které nabízí digitalizace a které přináší používání nových moderních technologií. politický program „cesta k digitální dekádě“ na rok 2030 nevymýšlí nic nového, ale nakládá s tím, co už je. vychází z předpokladu, že samotné státy chtějí neustále pracovat na zlepšování a chtějí vzájemně spolupracovat a posouvat se společně dál. cíle digitalizace, se kterými digitální dekáda počítá, prošly konzultacemi se členskými státy a já věřím, že i proto jsou reálné a splnitelné. osobně jsem dbala na to, aby se do konzultací zapojili také zástupci podniků, a to nejen těch velkých, ale i malých a středních a start-upů. často jsou to právě malé a střední firmy, které jsou průkopníky v nějaké oblasti, a ostatní od nich nová řešení přebírají nebo v nich hledají inspiraci. co považuji za největší úspěch našich jednání a výsledného kompromisu? digitální dekáda přichází s šikovným návodem, jak co nejlépe a nejefektivněji zkombinovat investice z rozpočtu eu, včetně nástroje pro obnovu a odolnost, investice z členských států a také ze soukromého sektoru. synergie jsou pak alfou a omegou úspěšnosti a přidané hodnoty. díky politickému programu digitální dekáda můžeme lépe vyrovnávat rozdíly mezi členskými státy v oblastech, kde je to nejvíce potřeba. a v neposlední řadě se otevíráme možnostem mezinárodní spolupráce. avšak za jasně narýsovaných podmínek a podle dohodnutých pravidel na hřišti vykolíkovaném programy, které ji financují. a bez čeho se neobejdeme? za prvé je to konektivita. bez zajištění připojení, které pořád není po celé evropě samozřejmostí, nezmůžeme nic a můžeme jít hned teď všichni domů. zabezpečená a udržitelná digitální infrastruktura je naprostý základ. včerejší den, kdy se evropský parlament stal terčem kybernetického útoku, je toho názornou ukázkou. za druhé, neobejdeme se bez digitálních dovedností, a to nejen těch základních, které by do konce roku 2030 mělo mít minimálně 80 % populace. firmám a také státní správě např. stále chybí lidé, kteří by dokázali školit a předávat své know-how dál. postrádám také motivaci pro ty, co už na trhu práce jsou, aby se učili novým dovednostem a dále se rozvíjeli. o dlouholetém zoufalém volání pracovního trhu po specialistech v informačních a komunikačních technologiích ani nemluvím. za třetí potřebujeme digitalizované služby veřejné správy. pokud opravdu chceme, aby občané a firmy pokládali digitalizaci za přínos a viděli v ní příležitosti, musíme jít příkladem. digitalizace státu, přístup ke klíčovým veřejným službám online, elektronické zdravotnictví a mohla bych pokračovat – to nesmí zůstávat na papíře a doslova v papírové formě. a konečně digitální transformace podniků. téma, kterým bychom mohli zaplnit agendu celého plenárního zasedání, a ještě by to nestačilo. digitalizace musí podnikům velkým i malým otevírat cestu k lepšímu podnikání. a nesmí je v žádném případě neúměrně zatěžovat a demotivovat. věřím, že to zvládneme. a jak už jsem řekla, pokud dnes digitální dekádu schválíme, první krok na cestě k ní jsme už udělali.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank very warmly the rapporteur, martina dlabajová, dear martina, and the whole team of fictitious rapporteurs who have worked tirelessly and in an extremely short time to finalise this proposal in record time. so, as the rapporteur has just said, this text will enable europe to organise an ambitious digital transformation. in the last three years, faced with all the challenges we have had to deal with - and we know that there are many more to deal with - we have seen the real possibilities offered by all digital technologies for our entire economy, our economies and society in general. and we have also implemented an economic recovery, i remind you, strongly based on digital transformation. the digital decade action programme is obviously the vision, the cornerstone of this transformation. for the first time, we are setting concrete, quantifiable and measurable objectives at european level. this is very important to enable us to achieve what we need to achieve by 2030 in the digital field, because there is no digital decade and no resilient europe without the excellence of our engineers, without better connectivity throughout europe, without smes also having all the necessary infrastructure, without competitive and sustainable processors and increasingly, it is hoped, made on the european continent. we want europe to be a fully connected continent, with the necessary infrastructure, capable of storing, transmitting and processing vast areas, huge volumes of data, and which subsequently enable further technological developments. and that's why we've set very specific goals for fiber optics, 5g, cloud, quantum, which is also very important, microelectronics, and so on. companies that have mastered digital technologies are the ones that are most resilient to the crisis. we see it every day. so to be more resilient, we want 90% of our smes to increase their capacity in digital technologies by 2030. a society trained for the digital age is also needed if our businesses are to be powered by talented women and men. our aim in this area is to significantly increase the digital skills of all our european citizens and to have 20 million digital engineers in europe by 2030. and i say that this is a very ambitious goal in which women must take their full part. there is a very great future for them in this area and we must help them to achieve it. we also aim to ensure access to modern, digital and high-quality public services throughout the european union. it is not just a matter of setting goals, but also of finding the means to achieve them. and that's the whole point of the structured process, the governance monitoring that we put in place. it will enable us to move forward together and without delay by involving all member states. that is why the action programme includes strong, transparent governance, but at the same time, it is also flexible enough to follow the objectives and adapt. this will be done by drawing on the experience gained, in particular in the framework of the national recovery and resilience plans and, of course, in coordination with the european semester. in conclusion, i would like to say that the action programme also includes a framework for the development and implementation of multi-country projects, i.e. large-scale projects aimed at achieving the union's digital transformation and the equally very important industrial recovery objectives. it is well known that in this field, as in many others, no country can now achieve this alone. that is why we are using a new tool, the consortium for a european digital infrastructure, known as edic, and this mechanism will facilitate the pooling of member states' resources, the union budget and private investment. it will thus allow for the efficient deployment and management of pan-european infrastructures, for example european data spaces or blockchain infrastructures. and i would like to reiterate to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission is ready to react very quickly, as soon as this decision is adopted, to support mature consortium projects.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union must not be left behind in the digital age. europe's entry into the digital decade is overdue if we are to compete globally. but all the technological advances we make are meaningless unless we prepare people for them and take them along. digital literacy will be one of the most important skills we should have in the future. i am firmly convinced that this will be a decisive factor for the labour market. but to reach as many people as possible, there is a principle: teach the teachers first. first of all, we need trained personnel who can pass on the knowledge, otherwise we cannot succeed in a fundamental digitisation of the population. this applies to teachers in schools, but also, and above all, in the field of continuing training. we must not leave anyone behind in the digital age, no matter what their age or social class. i think that in order to be successful, we have to do three things: we need to train teachers, we need to promote lifelong learning and we need to create the necessary digital infrastructure in schools and educational institutions. some eu countries are already significantly more advanced in digitisation than others. but as they say in sports, you're only as strong as your weakest link. so let's do it together and bring europe into the digital decade! let us use the time now to make the necessary investments in people and infrastructure.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – madam president, commissioner breton, dear colleagues, congratulations to the rapporteur martina dlabajová for the great job on this file. i will begin by saying something that i firmly believe: europe in the future will be digital or it won’t work at all. there are risks since the dawn of time with all new technologies but, harnessed properly, digitalisation can lead to more access and opportunity for those often left behind, not just for companies and tech giants. we can also use inclusive technologies to integrate people with disabilities. ai can avoid previous human biases in recruitment and, with the right digital skills, more people will gain access to new social prospects. but this will not happen by itself. we have to ensure that digitalisation leaves no one behind, nor is it used to create gaps in our legislation or to exploit workers or curtail their rights. happy workers mean happy companies. so let’s use the digital decade to make that happen in europe.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner breton, martina dlabajová, colleagues, whether we like it or not, the whole world is rapidly moving into a digital age. but this accelerated digitisation must put the citizen at its core. our success or failure as a society, as a union, will depend on a few very important things. we will have to stimulate the digital field, the companies involved in digitisation and give specialists the opportunity to develop their ideas here in the european union. there will be an absolute need for programmes and projects that teach citizens to use digital tools, create and live in a digital environment. last but not least, we must bear in mind that this digitisation must make people's work and lives easier. we're not doing digitization for the sake of digitization, we're doing it for the benefit of people. but all this can only be done if we have a european approach at union level to ensure that the rights of all european citizens are respected, that we all have the same opportunities, no matter where we live, that no one is left behind.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a study published monday shows that more than two thirds of young people are worried about the future and feel that the general situation is worse than ever. war in europe, inflation, climate change, the economic and energy crisis are creating a massive sense of insecurity; the european year of youth has not changed this. and i stand here today, as i did a year ago, and i make the same demand: end unpaid internships! the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote equal opportunities for women and men. i don't want to see only kids from wealthy families get to afford internships. and let us work together to create structures which ensure the tangible participation of young people on a lasting basis. however, instead of taking action, the commission has chosen to demonstrate that it can also act in the field of cartography by means of an event mapping. over 8,000 activities were mapped many of which would have taken place anyway. so this hard work was more of a self-affirmation. the year passed by unnoticed by the youths, without any result for them. that is why we are calling for the year to be extended until 8 may 2023 in order to finally deliver something in the extra time that could help make the year a success. finally, put forward a proposal to ban unpaid traineeships and at least propose council conclusions on the involvement of children and young people in policy-making at all levels! a half-baked youth test, more like a supervised discussion group than a real participation, is of no interest to anyone. let us work together on the measures to be taken by 9 may and get them under way. otherwise the european year of youth will remain a farce.
madam president, dear commissioner, indeed the european year of youth 2022 was a good decision. and this was a good decision because it allowed us to listen better to our young generation. in my political group, in renew, we had the renew europe task force set to have meetings and several interactions with the young people. our youth political organisations have been involved in, and we’ve exchanged about, the youth’s needs: about the need for paid internships, about the need for learning opportunities, about the need for digitalisation, a more inclusive society, about the mental health challenges, about the feeling of belonging, about the need for their access to decision-making process. and i’m really glad that we have young people that are present with us today and will hear us. the fact that we are not going to take all these things easily; we will try to put together the implementation for that. one important part is related to the investment in the young generation, the next generation. we have the child guarantee, we have the youth guarantee, and we need to push that further. but then if we care about the youth, we should have them on board today, not in a distant future. we should allow them to be part in designing their future today. if we want better policies for youth, we need to have you, the young people, involved in decisions, and having this youth impact test mainstream today. to say that we care about young people, it means that we need to get them on board with us for their good.
madam president, commissioner breton, by declaring the european year of youth, the commission and the entire european union made a strong commitment towards young people. i believe this commitment, but also the responsibility of the union. i checked the european year of youth portal for my constituency. it lists nearly 2 000 events in romania, but they are not dedicated initiatives and have little to do with the objectives set out by the commission for the dedicated year. i learned from youth organisations that these activities would have taken place in any case and that they are part of erasmus+, third—country or other public—entity funded projects. imagine that romania had an allocation of eur 183 000 for the whole european year project. the commission paid just some days ago the first eur 80 000. because of this late payment there has actually been no possibility to spend even eur 1 for the european year in romania, when the closing european event is around the corner. this is bad implementation of an otherwise well—intended policy. additionally, i learned that for many youth organisations, this year was particularly difficult as the financing through the erasmus+ programme encountered delays and less organisations received administrative funds. colleagues, the message of the youth for us is clear. for them, every year is the european year of youth. they should be continuously supported, promoted, asked for advice in youth matters and in european policies, and their organisations given opportunities to have long—term financial stability. we should not deceive them again.
madam president, commissioner, just over a month ago the portuguese socialists invited 200 young people to come to the european parliament to express their concerns about the present and the future. among thirty proposals, the young people chose nine priorities which they could present to the president of this parliament: a european strategy for mental health, free european public transport, access to affordable housing and free vouchers were some of these priorities. but there is one that has unequivocally emerged as having a strong impact on their lives and that is the biggest obstacle to their emancipation: unpaid work. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: there is only one reason why the ban on unpaid traineeships is not in this resolution and that is the opposition that the whole right wing maintains. i would like to make our position very clear again and call for progress in this direction: it's time to end unpaid internships once and for all. on behalf of these 200 portuguese young people and, i am sure, thousands more and all those in the gallery of this parliament, this would be the best way to end the european year of youth and to give a sign of great hope to young europeans.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european year of youth has so far been a success, involving young people from all the member states in activities that have shown them what the european union and european policies in particular mean. this is very important, especially as we are faced with extremely aggressive and, we must admit, quite effective campaigns to discredit the european union as a political and democratic project. the actions we take at european level or the european funding must reach more young people, have clear objectives and have an effective and efficient impact on european policies. european actions and policies need to be geared towards improving the living and educational conditions of all young people, regardless of their financial situation or their interest in politics. the fact that many of those who participated in the debates put education first shows that they are open and willing to develop and progress and is a clear signal that the european union should be much more involved in the field of education.
we will now move to the votes. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
president. – that is overwhelmingly adopted. this is significant. can i also say that this vote is significant not only for the much—needed funding it will make available for the people of ukraine, but it matters for democracy. thank you for showing us, once again, that this parliament is efficient, is effective, can act and can legislate urgently and fast. this is the democracy and legitimacy of european—level decision making.
madam president, i’m sorry but a brief indication for my colleagues in the epp. there’s a wrong signal in three amendments. it concerns 36, 43 and 44: please vote minus. sorry for this intervention. 36, 43, 44: vote minus, please.
madam president, on monday, i had a point of order. i want to give a signal and ask the colleagues to stand up and to show a yellow card to fifa because of their behaviour. if we stand and show our band, then we show that we are against what fifa is doing in qatar.
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 12.42)
the competent hungarian authorities have sent the president a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mrs anna donáth. this request will be referred to the legal affairs committee of parliament.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. i see no objection to that. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the subject of 'revising the medical devices regulation' 'how can the availability of medical devices be ensured?' by angelika niebler and peter liese, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) (o-000043/2022 b9-0030/22) (2022/2960 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. doctors, hospitals and medical device manufacturers have been sounding the alarm for over a year now: important medical devices are going out of date, are no longer being manufactured, are being withdrawn from the market. for example, balloon catheters for children's hearts are now almost non-existent in europe, and children with congenital heart defects will no longer be able to undergo surgery. what happened? what happened? in 2017, we adopted the new version of the medical devices regulation. the goal was to achieve greater patient safety. the revision of the medical devices regulation at that time was triggered by the breast implant scandal in germany and france. we wanted to tighten the requirements for the certification of medical devices with the revision. however, today we have to face the fact that many medical devices are simply not recertified because the financial and bureaucratic burden is simply too high, especially for many medium-sized manufacturers of medical devices. this is particularly true for niche products. so i think that with the current difficult supply situation of some of the vital medical supplies, something has to happen now. the commission must finally present a proposal to amend the medical devices regulation. we have been asking the commission to do this for months. so far, nothing has happened, at least as far as i can tell, and i think it's a scandal. i would therefore like to put three questions to the commission today. firstly, how does the commission intend to ensure that medical devices remain available, particularly in hospitals, so that patients who are in dire need of them can survive? secondly, i propose that certificates already issued should remain valid at least until the examination of a recertification application is completed. question to the commission: is this a view that is shared? and thirdly, is the commission considering amending the medical device regulation so that at least niche products which were already certified under the old regime no longer need to be recertified? i am very curious to see how the commission will respond to these three questions.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank honourable members niebler and liese for putting this very important topic on the agenda today. i believe we all agree that patient access to safe medical devices in europe is essential. and i believe that we also all agree that both access and safety are fundamental priorities in everything we do in this area. when the european parliament and the council adopted the medical device regulation in april 2017, the objective of this was to strengthen quality control and market surveillance. and as mep niebler mentioned, we must not forget the breast implant scandal of 2011 that triggered the revision of this legislation. the reasons we had to act as the eu back then for patient safety remain every bit as valid now. in may 2024, the transitional period of the medical device regulation will be coming to an end. we have made a lot of progress to implement new rules. some 34 notified bodies have been designated under the regulation. their capacity has significantly increased compared with the situation under previous eu directives. we have set up expert panels and their secretariat in the european medicines agency. they are essential for the more thorough assessment of clinical data. yet as we move towards the end of the transition period, it has become extremely clear that ensuring patient access to these devices is not guaranteed. and we are, in fact, facing a serious risk of shortages of medical devices. honourable members, being aware of this risk, we have tasked our experts to take actions and to develop options forward. aside from continuously monitoring the situation, we are together working with the medical device coordination group on finding solutions to this problem. a list of mitigation actions was adopted in august in order to increase notified body capacity and to boost preparedness among manufacturers. and several actions are already under way in order to be able to solve the problems that we have seen. but beyond these efforts, there are calls for additional actions from members of this house and from several member states and, of course, from stakeholders. and they include calls for an amendment to the regulation to extend the transition period. we are looking into legislative measures such as amending the regulation to avert the risk of shortages of critical medical devices, and we are already consulting all relevant stakeholders as part of this assessment. the issues raised in the oral question include the specific situation of so—called orphan devices for small patient groups, which are part of that ongoing assessment. in the meantime, i am pleased to announce and share with parliament today that the medical device coordination group has already set up a task force on orphan devices, and has held a workshop with clinicians and industry and other stakeholders. so what are the concrete next steps for this file? in december, at the occasion of the health council, i will be providing the clear proposed solutions to all eu health ministers. my objective is to address both the very short-term issues, but also the structural issues that have appeared. my other objective is the intention to keep this parliament fully involved in this process. your support in averting shortages of medical devices is crucial, and i look forward to hearing your views today.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the health care system in europe is in grave danger. this applies above all to the care of children. i used to work in a children's hospital, and my colleagues in pediatric surgery, in pediatric cardiology, they say, "we're on the verge of making medicine from the 1950s because modern equipment is no longer available". the reasons are many: brexit, corona, but also, in my view, majorities in the european parliament and in the council that have exaggerated the good cause, that have gone overboard on the good cause, the protection of patients. we warned you about the red tape back then. but that's it, there's no use in complaining. the causes are not important; we need a solution now. i support one by one what mrs niebler has proposed. my dear commissioner, my dear stella, we need these steps quickly, and we need them boldly. my group is prepared to give its very, very swift approval to such proposals. and it's important that we find viable solutions in the long term -- especially with children. an orphan device regulation - a special regulation that provides incentives for medical devices for children, for example - exists in the us; we need it in europe too. we need to make protecting the most vulnerable of our little patients more important than ever.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear all, we have already extended the deadlines for the new rules of the medical devices regulation to apply until may 2024. the european parliament was clear that we do not wish another postponement that would be in the disinterest of patients. now, if the regulation poses issues that will affect access to care for patients, perhaps it really requires other changes to the regulation. so that would be my question to the commission. what does the commission recommend? i would like to stress that parliament should be involved early on regarding the discussion. i was happy to hear from the commissioner, who said it is important that the european parliament is involved in order to discuss possible changes to this regulation instead of having again to face another urgent procedure to extend the deadline to apply the regulation’s rules, which are important.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, as i have learned about the facts surrounding the revision of the medical device regulation, i am once again disappointed to see that there is something deeply wrong with the way decisions are taken and implemented in the functioning of this european union. there is no explanation why, once this regulation has been adopted, due to the excessive bureaucratic and financial effort required to re-certify a range of medical devices, even those that are of excellent quality and have been in use for a long time can suddenly disappear from the market because companies decide to withdraw them without any explanation. the result is a reduction in the availability of medical devices across europe, which is deteriorating patient care. until recently, everyone in this room had become a medical professional, knew about pandemics, discussed the chinese virus, what it was, what it wasn't, how medical care was being depleted, the lack of medicines, the lack of ventilators, and so on, and so on. but it seems that this is a past explanation, everyone has forgotten it and now the same mistakes are being made again. this behaviour is inexplicable and the denial of adequate, timely and necessary medical care to citizens of the member states of the european union is inexplicable. commissioner, it is time for the european commission to start acting appropriately, to start looking after its own business. it's in your interest, not ours. we often criticise you for these things, but it is not a bad thing that you should put an end to this vicious practice of legislation which affects the interests of the citizens of the member states.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our hospitals and health care workers are under a lot of pressure, and today there is a new difficulty in the supply of medical equipment. respirators, defibrillators, prosthetics and many other devices that are essential to everyone's health may be missing, with all that this implies in terms of patient care. the european commission has been alerted on several occasions in recent years by companies in the sector and by our parliament. in addition to the current economic situation, these companies are faced with heavy administrative constraints and sometimes, at least today, impossible to meet due to the lack of sufficient certification bodies. these companies now need security. we therefore turn to the european commission and ask it to find concrete solutions quickly.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the aim of all those involved in the legislative process is to ensure that the legal framework provides a safer and easier life for european citizens. this was, i am convinced, the purpose of the revision of the medical device regulation. however, patients and niche providers are facing greater demands than before, difficulties that require them to provide specific resources to solve, which implies high costs for patients or health systems in the member states. i understand the goal of protecting patients better, but we need to monitor the actual impact of implementing the regulations and make changes quickly so that patients have the same access to the medical devices they need without paying more. we need to monitor the market closely to identify any problems that arise and to find very quickly the corrections that patients need.
mr president, i supported this resolution, as we are already nearing the end of this european youth year. the future of europe's young people has been discussed in this plenary, including at the conference on the future of europe, but i believe that we are doing too little for the transition from school to work and we need much stronger tools to be able to support young people who are deeply affected by all the changes today. we have gone from a public health crisis to a new crisis that is depriving young people of so many opportunities, and i believe that the commission has an obligation to see that member states implement the child and youth guarantee, mechanisms through which we can offer new practical solutions so that young people feel much better integrated and protected in european society.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, on sunday, 18 december, we celebrate the world minorities rights day. this date also marks the 30-year anniversary since the adoption of the declaration on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities. it is the only un international human rights instrument devoted to minority rights, and it is built on the core idea that the rights of minorities are vital to advancing political and social stability, and preventing conflicts. this september, at the anniversary high—level meeting organised in new york, un secretary—general antónio guterres said that the world still falls far short in actions supporting minorities. parliament should also echo his call. we welcome the debate planned for thursday morning on the topic. on behalf of the epp group, i propose that in a manner consistent with our action on previous un declarations, we also adopt a resolution. commitment to fundamental values and to a principled foreign policy stance will demand the strong voice of the parliament on this matter, and i hope all the political groups would support this request.
madam president, this debate is not about isolated villages, farmers' problems and a romantic vision of life in the country. this debate is about 30% of the population of the european union, over 80% of its territory and an urgent issue on which the future of the member states depends. for example, in my country, 45 percent of the population lives in the countryside, the highest proportion in the european union. but the situation, both in romania and in the rest of the union, is dramatic. current funding programs are good on paper, but useless in the field. that is why we have recent statistics showing that over half of rural europeans feel ignored by brussels. that's why we have a continuous exodus from the countryside to the city. so those who are still there see only two solutions: either to abandon our villages completely, or to move away from european values. in times of multiple crises, the assault on europe and geopolitical change with unpredictable outcome, we simply cannot afford to throw away almost a third of european citizens, and especially those people who provide us with food and preserve our traditions and environment. the report by my colleague, isabel carvalhais, whom i congratulate, comes with good and concrete measures: additional funding for road infrastructure, hospitals, schools and high-speed internet, eliminating red tape and greater involvement of local authorities, money to attract young people to rural areas. all of this, put into practice and financed from the future multiannual budget of the european union. that's what we have to do if we want to have a rural area after 2027.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe it is essential that the european union and the member states place at the heart of their policies measures aimed at enhancing the value of rural areas through the involvement of local authorities. the demographic crisis, depopulation, lack of digital infrastructure and services are some of the challenges facing these territories, but at the same time they are a potential for the whole union. i am thinking of the current challenges, such as the energy crisis and food security, but also of the strategic sectors that affect their economic development. the commission's 2021 communications represent two important initiatives, which need to be followed up. starting from the implementation of existing policies, with the need for integrated and complementary projects based on the european agricultural fund for rural development cohesion policy programmes and the national cap strategic plans and the investments provided for in the national recovery and resilience plans. it is also useful that the strategies launched at european level in the framework of the green deal have a realistic and non-ideological approach, combining economic and environmental sustainability.
madam president, commissioner, rural areas are the beating heart of the european territory. in my region, they make up 40% of the population. however, these territories face major challenges and difficulties, such as access to services, infrastructure development, generational renewal and access to education. today, inflation, energy poverty, the cost of fuel and the risk of power cuts are still the biggest challenges facing our rural areas. but it is they who can give us an answer to the major challenges we face, whether it be food security, energy independence or, of course, environmental issues. agriculture and forestry, which are major sources of wealth and jobs, must remain at the heart of these territories. i would like to welcome the test mechanism for rural areas which needs to be put in place, because by assessing new policies and their effects on these rural areas, we will, i hope, avoid the latter being harmed by policies that are implemented in a negative way. this is a real challenge for the whole of europe.
madam president, rural areas have proven their resilience both during the covid-19 pandemic and now, since ukraine is under attack from russia, they have proven that they can secure food supplies, especially through short chains. however, rural areas continue to have major structural problems. there is still a need for investment in both basic infrastructure and public services, especially education and health, because it's still a question of cohesion, of difference, of development, even if not as much between east and west as it used to be, but increasingly between urban and rural areas, even within the same region. that is why investment is needed, especially to attract and retain young people in rural areas, both in agricultural activity and in economic and social development in general. and it is important to invest in rural areas, because for the european union they are an element of identity, they are anchored in tradition. but i am convinced that rural areas can also be at the origin of the modernisation of european society, if we invest enough in these areas and lock young people into the rural environment.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, many thanks, dear members, for this enriching discussion. i will use this opportunity of the closing remarks to refer to some of the key points that you mentioned and that i heard from your exchange. first, in relation to the budget, one of the eu financing instruments helping the development of rural areas from an agricultural perspective is the european agricultural fund for rural development. i see your proposals for earmarking part of the other dedicated instrument, the european regional development fund, for rural areas. we will analyse it attentively, including from a coordination, synergy and complementarity point of view. this also brings me to the toolkit on access to eu funds. our ambition is that this tool will also capitalise on the experience and good examples of rural peers and reproduce successful stories. we also share the emphasis you put on seizing the opportunity of a rural proofing mechanism to use fully and coherently all relevant policies, as well as your call to implement rural proofing at national, regional and local levels as well. for the european union rural observatory, which went live, as i already said, on 8 december, it is a major milestone to improve the visualisation and accessibility of the data we already have, and improve collection of more detailed territorial data and analysis that are still missing on the needs and challenges of rural areas. i take this opportunity to let you know that last week the new rural vision website went live. it provides informative pages grouping in one place all the rural vision-related actions and also includes the rural observatory. i want to thank you once again for your support for the creation of the rural pact, because our shared goals of the vision can only be achieved if we work together. so our ambition is to gather all the actors playing a role in rural areas. i am confident that the rural vision, with its strategic objectives, including the demographic ones, together with the rural pact process and eu operational funding support, is on the right track to deliver on its goals. next year we will assess our progress and reflect on ways forward. since many of you mentioned predation and carnivores, i want to tell you that while predation by large carnivores may not be considered to be a key driver of abandonment of livestock farming in european mountain areas, or cannot be blamed for the demographic challenges of rural areas, it is a particular challenge for livestock grazing in areas where these species have long been absent. believe me – as i have repeated several times in this house – we established a new portfolio on demography. a new portfolio on demography is not established by coincidence. we are aware of demographic change and we are aware of territorial disparities. we are aware that, geographically, 80% of european territory is covered by rural areas and we know that only one third of the european population lives there. and we know that this is a huge potential and this is the reason why we adopted and we offer this long-term vision for rural areas. we will do our utmost to make these areas attractive, prosperous and also efficient again. and we want them to attract newcomers also. this is our goal, too, and this is the reason why we are talking about this under the portfolio of demography. so we want to make these areas vibrant again. we understand what you are saying on services, on infrastructure. but of course, we are not talking only about farming. we are talking about beyond farming, beyond agriculture, because we know that digital and green priorities, which are priorities of this commission, should also be implemented in rural areas. and this should be a very important issue in order to have new jobs, new jobs that are not only in farming, but of course we know that farming is very important as we know that we have problems with food nowadays. so i praise very much the work of the rapporteur and the co-rapporteurs on this resolution. i strongly support your calls on the council to express its opinion about the future of rural areas in formal council conclusions. in that regard, we are already in contact with the spanish authorities, with the spanish presidency of the council for the second half of next year, and your call definitely gives further impetus for some genuinely strong conclusions. there is only one more comment from my side. yes, we want to do this rural tax and all this together, but a lot depends on local, regional and national authorities. funding is here, but they have to use it in the best possible way and use it consistently. thank you very much once again and i am looking forward to making this long-term vision a reality together.
i did not address you earlier because i had not seen you when you were speaking. it was a pleasure to hear from you. i would like to say very briefly that i am very grateful to all the colleagues and shadow rapporteurs who have contributed to this report. i must say that it was a very hard and very intense work to achieve a text which reflected our different views of the rural world, but which touched on so many points. i say again, look at all the colleagues here. this is proof that the rural world doesn't move crowds. there are so few opportunities for us to talk about the rural world. so what i ask my colleagues to remember is this: the 80 paragraphs of this report are about and for these 137 million people who live in the 80% of rural areas of our territory, the european union. it is for them that this report is about, it is about their problems, it is not against carnivores, it is not against wolves. let me get this straight. if one reads paragraph 36 of this report with honesty and seriousness and compares it with the wording of the resolution on carnivores of the last plenary session, one can see the negotiating effort it required. either that, or it was just having nothing and ignoring something that is profoundly impactful on populations. it is the rural populations who are making us aware of their concern and we must help them. nobody convinces me that opening up the habitat directive on time and eventually means killing wolves, unless there are lobbies that want to, because that doesn't have to be the solution. in my country, for example, we have done the relocation, the resettlement, the displacement of these populations that were practically decimated. there are certainly other possibilities that do not involve the killing of these creatures, but this report is not about wolves, it is not about wild boars, it is not about bears, it is about people. let us have the courage, the political decency to ever acknowledge the importance of these 137 million people who expect us to be consistent in our messages. i am very grateful to the commissioner for her words and for the effort and commitment shown by the commission to meet these demands so that we can have a bright and resilient future for our rural world, which is not just about paper and rhetoric.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the carvalhais report is an important voice in the debate on the future of eu agriculture. the primary role of rural areas should be to develop an agricultural economy geared to food production, and this production must be profitable for farmers, ensuring a decent livelihood for them. it is good that this report emphasises this aspect. the pragmatic young generation is fleeing the countryside en masse to the cities in search of better opportunities for themselves, so farm work must be economically and socially attractive. i also stress the need to ensure adequate funding for the objectives of the cap. we are entering the new financial perspective with a budget that is 8% smaller than in previous years, and the sector is facing unprecedented challenges: the reform of the cap and the new conditionality of payments, the effects of the pandemic, the galloping prices of production costs, mainly energy and fertilisers. therefore, rural areas should be supported not only by the cap but also by other eu policies, including in particular cohesion policy, the instrument for reconstruction and resilience, investeu and other union programmes. finally, i call on the commission to respect the principle of subsidiarity, respect regional differences and traditions and focus its efforts on increasing synergies between rural areas at national level when implementing the different phases of the strategy.
in writing. – countless villages in europe are facing depopulation due to a lack of opportunities and access to jobs, education, health or basic infrastructure. this report on the long-term vision for rural area recognises all these problems and makes a series of very good proposals in this regard. the union and member states have at their disposal many tools to help rural areas make the most of the potential that many villages still have, so that young people in particular want to return to the countryside, develop businesses and set up families. what we need to do is to better coordinate all of these in an effective manner, to ensure that these resources go where they are needed the most and make an impact in the local community. all national strategic plans have been adopted by now, and i hope that the commission and member states ensure that there are sufficient measures being financed in each and every one of them, to ensure that villages all over europe receive the much needed support to become attractive, especially for young people.
in writing. rural areas are an important part of our natural, identity and cultural heritage, they provide us with vital raw materials, they play an important role in energy production and environmental protection, and they play a vital role in ensuring food security, being crucial in making the social, green and digital transition. however, especially in recent years, the gap and disparities between rural and urban environments have increased. thus, rural areas face an ageing population, demographic decline, reduced access to essential public services, poor infrastructure, increased risk of poverty and low potential to combat the effects of multiple crises. for these reasons, i call on the european commission and the member states to speed up the evaluation of all rural development mechanisms, to present integrated strategies and financial allocations adapted to the characteristics of each rural area. last but not least, i call on the european commission to present an integrated approach to rural development financing based on a strengthened synergy between pillar 2 of the cap and the cohesion funds in order to provide the necessary financing for sustainable rural development that guarantees a high quality of life for its inhabitants.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members. first, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms tardino, and the members of the tran committee for this own-initiative report and their support for the analysis and the initiatives presented in the action plan to boost long-distance and cross-border passenger rail. as stated in the action plan, the commission will continue with the enforcement of the full and correct implementation of the eu rail acquis and with the removal of remaining barriers that hinder setting up and operating cross-border long distance rail services. in the coming period we plan to propose a number of initiatives in this regard, this has also been identified in your report. we will propose an initiative on multimodal ticketing. passengers must be able to see all available travel options and all available fares, not just the options that are of commercial interest to operators or to ticket platforms. the passenger is the one to choose. data needs to be open for consumers and businesses in order to drive up the quality of services. we will also propose an initiative on a more efficient process of capacity allocation and traffic management. a key weakness of the current legislative framework is its reliance on an annual timetable process for the management and allocation of capacity. this process is too rigid and does not allow neither long-term planning to ensure optimal use of capacity nor short-term allocation of capacity to accommodate short notice requests. we will tackle this. furthermore, we aim to improve the cross-border coordination of capacity, so that cross-border services can be operated more efficiently. train operators are also inefficient because of obstacles to the mobility of the train drivers across member states, employers or in terms of road. this is even more important in the rail-freight sector, since 50% of freight trains in europe are cross-border and are for longer distances. this is why we will propose a revision of the train drivers directive to ensure that the train drivers can easily move between member states and rail companies while also benefiting from the last technological innovation. and yes, indeed, the language: it does not exist a common language right now in the rail sector. so the cross-border operations require trained drivers to be able to communicate with dispatchers in different languages. and this is a huge obstacle. and the commission is assessing now possible alternatives to the current requirement in our impact assessment. we will also revise the technical specification for interoperability. these are vital to provide a common, legally binding european basis for rail, with the possibility to use the same type of trains anywhere. not only do the specifications ensure interoperability, they should also reduce costs, as harmonised products can be developed once and deployed across the eu and beyond, since the technical specifications for interoperability are becoming the reference regulatory framework for many other countries. the action plan also announces pilot services, in which interested stakeholders can propose to the commission their plans for cross-border long-distance passenger services and indicate where they see obstacles the commission can help with. we do this work taking into account all passengers, including those with reduced mobility and disability, ensuring accessibility. we have received an encouraging number of interesting proposals and they are currently being evaluated. in january we will present the results of the evaluation and discuss the next steps with the proposers. and with that, i would like to thank you again for your work on this own-initiative report and i am looking forward for its adoption in the plenary.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. exactly one year ago, to mark the end of the much-hyped european year of railways, i made the journey between lisbon and strasbourg by train. a trip that, by plane, could take a half-dozen hours and cost a few tens of dollars. the railroad option? six trains, three days on the road, almost 400 euros in tickets alone. i've been back a year, nothing's changed. neither the rhetoric nor the propaganda of the european union around the railways and the consequences of its policies with the successive railway packages, directly contributing to the closure of thousands of kilometres of railways, reduction of supply, degradation of service. the answer to the problems of railways in portugal and europe is not to insist on this path of liberalization, deregulation and commodification of the sector. it is urgent to reverse these policies, to enhance public management of the railway sector in its dimensions of operation, infrastructure, production and maintenance, by promoting substantial public investment in rail, its modernisation, the extension of networks, interoperability and passenger and worker rights.
the agenda shall include speeches of one minute (rule 172) i would inform the honourable members that for one-minute speeches they may speak while remaining seated.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when i read article 21 of the constitution in italy, i probably do not think that freedom of expression is not always a given. it is normal for us europeans to have the freedom to go out into the streets, to express our ideas. for many people living elsewhere, in countries like iran, this right does not exist and for this right people die, they are hanged in public squares. we remember in this house what happened today, when poor majidreza rahnavard was hanged for demonstrating. he was 23 years old, he had a life ahead of him, he went out to defend his ideas, to protest against the injustice of the death of mahsa amini. and so this parliament must reflect on what iran is becoming and must develop all forms of defence and sanctions against a country which denies this right.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of persons and goods is a fundamental freedom of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. although romania has signed the accession to the european union since 2005, these freedoms are still denied to it. although romania fulfils the conditions for accession to the schengen area, a fact confirmed repeatedly since 2011, this right is still violated today. the european commission has confirmed that romania has the right to schengen, the european parliament has confirmed it too. the only institution that refuses without any justification the right of romania to align with the other european states is the council of the european union. i therefore call on the european commission to take immediate action against the council of the european union at the court of justice of the european union and to block such anti-european actions which violate the treaties of the european union.
madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to publicly thank the organisers of the final conference of the european year of youth, which took place last week, on 6 december, in the european parliament. the conference was jointly organised by the european commission, the council, represented by the czech presidency, and the european parliament. the important thing is that young people were involved in the organization. seven hundred young people filled the european parliament in brussels. it was a unique event and i hope that next year, the year of skills, will continue this tradition of cooperation between the council, the commission and parliament. i also want to thank the 30 children from primary art schools in the czech republic who performed at this conference with their musical performances. it's not a one-off event this year, but it's the final and most significant. in conclusion, let me say that what we have promised here today, to investigate the corruption that has taken place in the european parliament, we will also carry out. it is also our commitment to young people and the young generation who are europe's future.
madam president, russia is a terrorist state. they systematically murder innocent civilians, kidnap children into russia, plant land mines, mine entire areas, bombs destroy property and public infrastructure, crops are destroyed. all international crimes of russia will be investigated. and that is the clear message to russia that we have repeatedly expressed in this house. however, the time has now come to help ukraine in terms of its energy system and its stability, so that it can at least have reimbursements for its energy network. we need to offer help quickly with the generators, big and small. also, across the big border that we have with ukraine, to try to help supply ukraine with energy that should be at least partly paid for by the european union. ukrainians, despite their heroic resistance, now feel the cold, the deprivation, the lack of energy for their lives. we can't leave them. their victory is our victory.
madam president, the unjustifiable war of aggression of putin's russia against ukraine has required this european parliament to adopt a whole range of measures, both to avoid impunity for war crimes and to adopt restrictive measures against russia, its agents and accomplices, including the prohibition of russian ships calling at ports in the european union. but it is reasonable that the commission should assess, as the conflict continues, the sustainability of those measures which may have the effect of worsening the supply and food crisis, particularly in the countries most in need of food supplies, such as, of course, those on the african continent. i am referring to the measures concerning strategic ports such as the port of las palmas, which, since russian vessels supplying pelagic fisheries which contribute to the food diet of the african continent can no longer call at, equip or even repair themselves in strategic ports such as that port in order to supply food to africa, may therefore increase the food crisis on the african continent. it is good that the commission assesses the consequences of its decisions so that we are able to adjust them, if necessary, in order to prevent the food crisis on the african continent from worsening further.
madam president, it is incredible and unforgivable that the vote of this parliament does not matter. i voted twice in this parliament for romania to join schengen and a vote elsewhere made things go in a different direction. these things have to change. i want romanians to stop being considered second-class european citizens and romania to be considered a country at european level. i have never suffered such an injustice, given the moment when the vote was against romania's accession to schengen. it's unbelievable, it's unfair and unjust that some people are more equal than others, and these things have to stop. i want us to be treated like the french, the english, the dutch and the austrians. i ask you, i want you, i ask you and i want to go home saying that three very important things have been achieved: to confirm once again that we meet all the conditions, to draw up a very clear timetable for romania's accession to schengen and to launch the infringement procedures you have launched each time, to sanction those who do not respect the treaties on the functioning of the european union. this vote against romania was in fact a serious fracture against european unity and solidarity, and honourable commission, honourable council, we have been extremely supportive of all european crises. if you want to be close still, keep in mind that the romanians and romania deserve more, including treaty change at the european level.
madam president, the romanians were promised eight new regional hospitals, which then turned into three. today, zero will be funded from the pnrr, because the authorities have not done their job. the government, in reality, doesn't want to build any new hospitals in the pnrr, but only to patch up existing hospitals. the sibians were completely forgotten. we have a county hospital project, but we don't have political approval from the government. if we don't get this approval, the siberians won't be able to build another hospital in the next 10 years because they won't have the money to pay for it. so, mr ciucă, mr rafila, mr boloș, put european money also for the construction of a new hospital in sibiu. the sibyans cannot be the scapegoats of the bosniaks in bucharest. the european investment bank cannot finance the hospital unless the government approves at least half of the european funding. give the civilians a new hospital.
madam president, since the european parliament issued its report on pegasus last month, many people are stunned at the depth of the scandal. since then, there have been two further reports on predator software, published by lighthouse reports and the new york times. most irish people were shocked to learn that an irish holding company, thalestris, was responsible for surveillance spyware used against meps and journalists and, incredibly, sold to the successor of the janjaweed in sudan, which committed so many war crimes. this latest information was contained in a report in the currency, an irish online publisher. thalestris should be investigated by both the irish revenue and the office of the director of corporate enforcement, and i would also encourage the irish parliament to investigate links between ireland and the surveillance spyware industry. ireland should not become a haven for companies involved in violations of human rights around the world and the provision of corporate services to those companies. sadly, the irish government has shared very little information with the european parliament inquiry and has continued to assert national security when asked if it uses this spyware.
madam president, thank you, colleagues, for voting today to put on the agenda tomorrow a debate on the veto vote austria has cast against my country. it is an unfair and humiliating vote for a people who until five days ago were not eurosceptic and were a people who were very much in favour of the european union. i am pleased to welcome commissioner valean to the house. a people who believe in the european spirit, who believe in european values, and what the austrian government has done, i repeat, has humiliated those values. we will continue our fight, we will not give up. and again, i want to thank you, the meps from all 26 countries, not including romania, for supporting this project, romania in schengen.
madam president, i publicly demand that the epp chair, mr manfred weber, immediately and unconditionally expel from the epp the party led by the austrian chancellor karl nehammer. on 8 december 2022, austria voted to abusively block the entrance of romania and bulgaria in schengen, even though both countries met all the requirements to join this area. we were not and we are not asking for privileges, not for mercy from anyone, including austria. romania gained its national right to be part of schengen after paying a heavy and expensive price. from the romanian taxpayers’ money, we are protecting and defending the borders from illegal immigration so not only us but also other countries like austria will be protected and safe. romania respects the obligation of the schengen acquis and for over 11 years the commission and the european parliament stated in multiple reports and resolutions that is fully prepared to join schengen. despite all this – the undeniable facts – the austrian chancellor decided to abusively violate romania’s right to join schengen so he can gain political points. this is simply unacceptable. mr weber, if you are a man of your word and care about european solidarity, i publicly urge you to expel from your party the party of the austrian chancellor.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, minister balaš, colleagues, culture is at the heart of our identity. it defines us as people, as nations, as europeans. we have a great cultural diversity, whether we're talking about romania, my country, or france, bulgaria, the czech republic. each country in the european union has made its own contribution to our european culture and identity. that is why it is important that all european citizens have access to culture and, at the same time, that those who create this culture that characterises us, that differentiates us, are supported, promoted and, above all, rewarded for the outstanding work they do. when we talk about a cultural strategy for the european union, we need to take into account the creation and support of a cultural ecosystem that is less fragmented and focused on balance than on the protection of copyright and the importance of access to culture for all citizens. culture is also the european union's best ambassador in every corner of the world, and we need to ensure that cultural and creative industries have sufficient funds to make their work and european values known all over the world. international cultural relations are the best way to promote european values, diversity and a unique opportunity to understand global diversity, the experiences and way of life of other peoples. it should be stressed that all this wealth, whether it is european culture or the culture of other countries, is of no value unless we make sure that it reaches as many citizens as possible. and that is why, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are all invited to timisoara, the future european capital of culture, next year.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the need for a dedicated budget to make the child guarantee a reality - an urgency in times of energy and food crisis (2022/2996 ((rsp)). i would like to welcome commissioner nicolas schmit.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, mr commissioner, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to exchange views on the european child guarantee. the child guarantee is something that we can all be proud of. it is one of the first deliverables of the european pillar of social rights and it is the first eu level policy instrument that addresses directly disadvantage and exclusion in childhood. in europe of the 21st century no child should be left behind, and yet the challenge of child poverty still exists and persists. one out of four children in the union is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. this is a shocking number and we should make every possible effort to invest in children and break the cycle of disadvantage and poverty. the successful implementation of the european child guarantee is a matter of priority for the council. let me recall that the recommendation on the european child guarantee was adopted by the council unanimously and in record time. in june 2022 the council also adopted conclusions on the strategy on the rights of the child, which is closely linked to the child guarantee. the czech presidency has kept the focus on the fight against child poverty, namely through the high-level conference on child support in the context of the child guarantee. this enabled a useful exchange of views on how to best ensure the protection and social inclusion of children. the council is also well aware of the great interest the parliament shows in this respect, with initiatives such as the recent hearing on the analysis of the national action plans which took place this november. and national plans are essential to address the root causes of this phenomenon. as of today, all member states have nominated a national child guarantee coordinator and 18 member states have already submitted to the commission their national action plans for the implementation of the child guarantee. but as we all know, policy must go hand-in-hand with adequate funding. and for the purposes of today’s debate, the most important message to keep in mind is the following: there are several existing union funds that can support the implementation of measures under the european child guarantee. the european social fund plus regulation requires all member states to dedicate an appropriate amount to tackle child poverty or social exclusion. for member states in which the rate of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion is above the union average, that amount is to be at least 5% of the national esf allocation. in addition, to european social fund plus funding other sources of european union funding are available. the european regional development fund, the recovery and resilience facility, the eu school fruit, vegetables and milk scheme, funded by the common agricultural policy, the erasmus+ programme and the asylum migration and integration fund. there is therefore no lack of budget or union funding instruments to support the child guarantee. so we must ensure complementarity and avoid ineffective spending or overlapping between the different funds, and the commission is working closely with the member states to make this a reality.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, today’s debate on the child guarantee takes place in the context of russia’s war of aggression against ukraine and its social and economic consequences. allow me to say a few words about ukrainian children because it was now recalled that no child should be left behind. today, at least four million ukrainian children are prevented from having a normal life by this criminal war. thousands have been killed or injured. millions have either been displaced internally or had to cross the borders. and thousands have been abducted against all international rules and against all the principles of a civilised world. offering ukrainian child refugees housing, social services and education has to be considered as combating child poverty and child exclusion. this war has not only caused destruction and a humanitarian crisis. together with the energy crisis, it has also fuelled spiralling energy and food prices, leading to increased costs of living. in quarter two of 2022, real household income contracted for the first time since the covid-19 shock. high food and energy prices made access, in particular, to healthy meals and adequate housing more difficult. families are forced to make impossible choices between feeding their children and paying their bills. let’s recall that the share of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion in 2021 remained at 24.4% – higher than that of the general population, at 21.7%. children from disadvantaged backgrounds are most at risk. we cannot allow the current crisis to result in a new cycle of child poverty. to support vulnerable children in these difficult times, we need to protect household incomes, providing a consistent response, which should also include adequate wage policies and minimum income schemes. i want to underline the commitments taken by the member states and the eu institutions at the porto summit. we have jointly set three ambitious targets to be achieved by 2030, and among them are reducing the number of poor people or people at risk of poverty by 15 million, and at least 5 million should be children. i’m glad that all member states committed to their national targets, and most of these national targets include specific commitments to reduce child poverty. what we jointly need to do now is to mobilise to achieve these targets by helping vulnerable families to break the cycle of disadvantage. so far, 18 member states have submitted to the commission their national action plans implementing the european child guarantee. the level of ambition of the plans varies depending on the starting point of a given country. the commission keeps urging the national child guarantee coordinators to speed up the submission of the action plans. we also monitor very closely the implementation of the adopted plans and hold regular meetings with the national child guarantee coordinators. progress in implementing the child guarantee will also be regularly monitored through the relevant social scoreboard indicators in the context of the european semester. eu funds provide an important contribution towards the implementation of the european child guarantee. in particular, the european social fund plus already provides funding dedicated to supporting children and young people. as this parliament will know, the esf+ already includes an obligation that all member states should programme an appropriate amount of their resources of the esf+ strand under shared management for the implementation of the child guarantee for activities addressing child poverty. for these member states with a significant problem, there is a minimum allocation of 5%. i well recall the important role played by parliament to ensure the prevalence of the child guarantee during the esf negotiations. i am pleased to see that in a great majority of the member states, the 5% threshold to combat child poverty has been exceeded. overall, member states are planning to programme almost eur 6.1 billion under the esf+ for measures directly addressing child poverty. with national contributions included, this amounts to almost eur 8.9 billion. of course, member states can also provide indirect support to help children in poverty through social integration measures. you can count on the commission to monitor that the budget allocated to the child guarantee under the esf+ is used to its full extent. the european regional development fund can also finance measures to promote social inclusion and combat poverty. here, the allocation is to be spent on inclusive growth, amounting to eur 24.2 billion. and together with commissioner ferreira, we want to develop real synergies to allocate a maximum of funding also to combat child poverty. and i can tell you, we are focusing especially on roma children, a majority of whom are suffering from incredible poverty. under the recovery and resilience facility, most member states plan infrastructure investments in education at all stages, starting with early childhood and care. and here also, eur 7.6 billion are tagged for early childhood education and care. obviously, eu funding is not sufficient; member states, too, should mobilise their national budgets. this is a social investment that will pay off, benefiting our young generation and in the longer run our economies and societies. and the commission stays committed to combating child poverty and is ready to support the member states in this task.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that this debate should have been more involved, because the eu child guarantee, as we have it today, has its origins essentially in this house. we were the driving force behind this important project. and in view of what you have said, i want to make it very clear that i expect the member states to take this important project more seriously. we have discussed in committee the national action plans, the national implementation and the state of play. it is shocking that not all the member states have yet submitted their plans, and this in a situation where we have to say: we really need an update as it stands. the debate is also about energy, food, inflation and, of course, the challenges posed by the influx of refugees. nicolas schmit has pointed out the situation of ukrainian children. the ones from the balkan route are still on top. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i would simply urge the council to apply the necessary pressure here. i can remember very well how, a few weeks ago, our friend elżbieta rafalska described the situation of the many ukrainian children in poland. i've got a picture of the situation myself. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply and for his reply to the question put by mr von wogau. but it is also clear that we as the european union must make a greater contribution than we have done so far. i would like to make a very specific call for this. thank you.
the european parliament has been involved in a scandal of unprecedented gravity. as president metsola said, we are under attack by those who want to influence our democracy and we must take a firm stand against those who are corrupt and those who have acted in a way that has tarnished the dignity of our institution and of the european union. we shall do our checks and we shall do our part, but today we must still, with greater force, carry on our work on all the issues which are the pride of the european parliament, and the guarantee for children is without doubt the perfect example. without the european parliament's push there would have been no guarantee for children. without the european parliament's push, there would be no political demand today for a budget increase of 20 billion euros to deal with the human tragedy caused by putin's war in ukraine, which affects millions of children and families displaced and seeking protection, but also millions of families in europe struggling to make ends meet because of rising bills and inflation. this parliament has already called for an increase of 20 billion in four resolutions and on thursday we will vote on an amendment which i tabled to the report on the multiannual financial framework, together with 80 colleagues from various political groups, to further confirm this position. i would like to ask the commissioner to make sure that our institutions are able to demonstrate to the whole world that our job, our mission, is to stand by those in need. strengthening the guarantee for children is not only a necessity but a necessary response to reality; the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be elected by the european parliament.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, minister balaš, dear commissioner nicolas schmit, we are all responsible for the sad reality in which now in europe, andre wakes up in the morning in a freezing home – if he is lucky to have one. maria eats leftover breakfast, if she’s lucky to have some food these days. luis prepares for a 10 kilometre walk to school, if he’s lucky to have the opportunity to study. alice would like to play in the snow with her friends, but takes care of her brothers if she’s lucky to have a parent that went early in the morning to work. this is the sad reality for one out of four children in europe. and for the first time in a long time our children risk having fewer opportunities than we did. and what parents are we to accept that? what are we if we don’t do everything to prevent this from happening? our countries, our member states, have now an opportunity like never before – the european child guarantee. this is one of the first documents of this type in the world. this is an unprecedented pledge to ensure vital access and opportunity to care and basic needs for the children who most need them. however, the child guarantee looks like a blah blah still for too many european children. as 12 of the member states still have not managed to come up with an action plan for its implementation and out of the ones that did, not all of them have presented quality measures with those plans. as wonderful as our initiatives might be, as optimistic as our words can sound, they amount to little in the behaviour of governments and political parties at national level who are consistently failing to prioritise the fight against child poverty. we need strong commitment from the member states, accompanied by quality action plans in entire europe. we have allocated a dedicated budget and we are putting forward amendments to get eur 20 billion for the 2021-2027 period and we would like to have that as part of the revised mmf. the crisis of energy and food will worsen the already dramatic life of andre, maria, luis and alice unless they are lucky to have governments that care about them. unless we choose to prioritise their present, their future, and to create opportunities for them.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the pandemic, the energy crisis, the security crisis, the refugee crisis has brought us face to face with a new reality, and clearly this tool is a hugely important one, because it gives us the chance to do more to help children in vulnerable areas, and any serious analysis we look at shows us how policies for child welfare and development can generate a fourfold return on investment at the societal level. this is why it is essential to allocate substantial resources so that these objectives proposed by the child guarantee do not remain mere statements or idealistic goals. member states have an obligation to act with much more firmness and determination in supporting children who need to have access to good quality healthcare, education, care, decent housing and, of course, adequate nutrition. that is why i think it is extremely important that we do not remain in this area where we set ourselves a series of objectives and they are not implemented by the member states. and here i think the commission needs to be much more firm and, obviously, the states need to create the conditions so that the child guarantee becomes a reality and brings more well-being to vulnerable children.
the covid crisis has brought to the surface some of the vulnerabilities of our economic cooperation with china. but these vulnerabilities were accentuated by the outbreak of war in europe, a war that was started by russia, which blackmailed europe and obviously directly attacked some of our critical infrastructure. apart from the instruments you have mentioned so far, which you recommend to the member states, such as the direct investment monitoring mechanism, what other recommendations do you have for the member states so that we can protect our critical infrastructure, our strategic infrastructure, much better so that our economy is also secure and free from any challenges in the future?
the second question concerns cyber security, are you satisfied with the way member states are implementing all the recommendations you make?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, madam commissioner, the vote of austria to abusively block romania’s accession into schengen is an act of flagrant political corruption. this vote also demonstrated that the austrian epp chancellor, karl nehammer is the puppet of the russian president, vladimir putin, and the russian spearhead who is undermining the european project from within. romania earned, at a heavy price, the national right to be part of schengen. for 11 years the eu commission and the parliament are stating that romania meets all the requirements to be part of this area. but now we cannot exercise this right because of false pretexts of corrupt austrian politicians. enough is enough. romania is nobody’s punching bag for someone or a political party to earn political points in their countries. the fact, though, is that companies from austria were trying to blackmail romania to give them easier and cheaper access to our resources, which austria does not have. such imperialistic behaviour is unacceptable. while different eu leaders are talking about european solidarity, austrian businesses, like raiffeisen bank, for example, do not have a problem with still operating in russia. i urge the commission to take all the necessary steps to punish the current leadership of austria and all the businesses conducting operations in russia.
mr president, first of all, i’d like to thank the commissioner for what she has already done. dar vreau să fiu foarte clar, subiectul aderării româniei și bulgariei la spațiul schengen trebuie să fie pe agenda consiliului european de săptămâna aceasta, pentru că acesta nu este și nu poate fi considerat un subiect închis după votul din consiliul jai de săptămâna trecută, pentru că nu mai este un subiect care vizează doar austria, bulgaria și românia. aderarea româniei la schengen a devenit o problemă politică europeană, pentru că veto-ul austriei în consiliul jai nu are de-a face cu niciun criteriu schengen, ci cu politica de azil și migrație și asta trebuie discutată și rezolvată în consiliul european. această practică abuzivă și ilegală a veto-ului cinic sfâșie solidaritatea europeană și pune sub semnul întrebării credibilitatea uniunii europene. deci acest subiect nu mai poate fi lăsat în suspans și să așteptăm încă să treacă săptămâni și luni ca să îl rezolvăm. aștept, deci, de la șefii de stat și de guvern să găsească o soluție cât mai repede cu putință pentru rezolvarea acestui blocaj care e nedrept și ilegal și care nu face decât să dea apă la moară extremiștilor și anti-europenilor. deci, subiectul șefi de stat și de guvern e în mâinile voastre și în primul trimestru al anului viitor acest subiect trebuie închis.
mr president, the council's decision to keep bulgaria and romania in the schengen waiting room is giving rise to anti-european rhetoric that calls into question one of the european union's greatest achievements. we must not feed euroscepticism with unfair double standards, especially now that europe is not the same and we must defend our values, and schengen enlargement means more security and solidarity. for 11 years, 11 years, our full membership has been held hostage to the domestic problems of other countries, even though we meet all the criteria. this is not the way to build trust in the principles of the european union. we are guarding one of the most difficult external borders of the union, the one with turkey, and we are not at all among the weak links in the border control system. the bulgarian border guards even lost their lives defending our common security. i call on the council to remove the obstacle to bulgaria and romania as soon as possible, so that confidence in the european union as a project of equal partnership and solidarity is not shaken.
mr president, i too would like to thank the commissioner and the whole european commission for their support for romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area, of course. i would like to thank the czech presidency for its support and for its will to keep the european project united. but the behaviour of the austrian chancellor and his interior minister last week is an attack on the european project and a disregard for the rights of romanians. we cannot accept becoming prisoners of a game of internal politics of a member state. we won't suffer from stockholm syndrome and we won't end up sympathizing with those who hold us captive. we want the schengen issue to be on the agenda of the european council this week, because romanians deserve respect, because romania deserves to be in the schengen area.
mr president, mr balaš, commissioner johansson, i also thank you for all the unconditional support you have shown me over the past months and especially over the past week. in the jha council, where last week romania and bulgaria were given an unfair and humiliating veto for joining the schengen area, even though we have met all the criteria for over ten years. the romanians and bulgarians are being held at the gates of the european union and, whatever we say, we cannot talk about equal rights as long as tens of millions of europeans are being held for hours at the border, subjected to additional checks and unequal treatment. this decision, although seemingly insignificant to many european citizens who enjoy all the rights, endangers the fabric of the european union, feeding in a particularly dangerous way the nationalist ideologies and the growing separatism of russia's supporters. i'm not going to let you go. we resigned not to die. unser kampf hört hier nicht auf. what is this? and their decision was not only unfair to the romanian people, the rest of the second largest minority in their country, but to european values. i hope you'll be able to recognize the mistakes you've made and to forgive yourself in the days to come.
mr. president, my child's godparents are romanian citizens living in austria and teaching at a university in vienna. from their hands come generations of young austrians and europeans who are being raised in the spirit of european values, of european unity and solidarity in which we believe. and the austrian chancellor, he says, believes in them. in other words, chancellor nehammer, my romanians are educating your young austrians. i do this with a lot of professionalism and dedication. they and others like them were humiliated by the jai vote that throws romania to the periphery of europe, while some romanians educate europe right in its heart. but i am convinced that they will not do their duty to austria and its young people any less than the values in which they believe, but will continue precisely because they understand these values and respect them, as your country does. that is what romania must do now, at the december council and beyond, to continue civilly and with dignity, to support its cause. the campaigns of hate and revenge are not helping us. i am convinced that we will meet our austrian colleagues in many political and diplomatic negotiations, and that we will learn from such experiences to behave better, and we will do so. none of us will stop until romania is in schengen, because it deserves every man of its own.
mr. president, i come before you after austria voted against europe. this vote has humiliated romania and holds millions of romanians hostage. austria's vote defies article 2 of the treaty on european union, which says that the rule of law is a fundamental value. hungary has the money frozen because of the violation of the rule of law. austria, no, not yet, although chancellor nehammer has a pronounced illiberal and absolutely racist attitude. austria's vote defies article 21 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on free movement, plus 20 other pieces of legislation. according to these legal acts, romania has the right to lift its border controls if it complies with the schengen acquis. romania has passed all the evaluations. it was raised and mcv. there were additional evaluation visits. 22 experts from 12 eu countries and representatives of frontex and the commission, plus 10 additional dutch experts. there are facts that the chancellor of austria ignores under the pretext that my country is permissive with immigrants. a lie from head to tail. chancellor nehammer has decreed the schengen blockade the second vienna dictate for the romanians. your excellences, the rule of law is the basis of the european union's existence. i call on the commission and parliament to ask the court of justice to find austria in breach of the acquis and to take steps to suspend its voting rights. (the president interrupted the speaker)
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. mr president, commissioner, mr bogdan, you said that this was a vote against europe and you asked the commission to refer the matter to the court of justice of the european union. you're a political leader in romania. ask the government of romania, which is the privileged plaintiff in this situation, to complain to the court of justice of the european union about this abuse, because the council of the european union cannot block romania.
response to the 'blue card' intervention. thank you for what you say, mr. tomac, and i assure you that the government of our country will do this because it is the worst injustice in the last 70 years that has happened to romania and this will be sanctioned, and austria will bear the consequences.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking commissioner johansson for being a true advocate of romania's accession to the schengen area. but we have to say it like it is: europe has entered a deep crisis following austria's veto of the commission's proposal to include romania in the schengen area. how can we accept that a government of a member state is trampling on european legislation and recommendations, without us acting to protect the rights of our citizens who have been seriously affected by this unjust decision? romania complies with the schengen criteria, which is confirmed by all. today, however, in a very difficult context, the solidarity of the community bloc is being called into question by this veto which serves the interests of the russian federation. the romanians have nothing to negotiate with austrian politicians for respecting their rights and will not accept economic bargains. we insist that the european council discuss this issue and establish a firm timetable for accession as soon as possible. dear romanians, we will fight with dignity to the end for this goal, we will not give up and we have many friends here who are willing to support romania.
mr president, 'europe united' - that is just a slogan if we continue to allow romania and bulgaria to be held in the tail of europe totally unjustified. to have romania and bulgaria outside of schengen, in the middle of an economic crisis, energy crisis, with a war on the borders is not only discriminatory, but absolutely stupid. so stupid that you wonder who's using this? clearly not europe. it is very dangerous because it diminishes trust in the union, fuels anti-european propaganda and legitimises nationalism in all these countries. it is discriminatory because it is not possible for some european citizens to have only rights and others only obligations. and it's unfair and we can't ask for solidarity from just romania and just bulgaria. beyond presidents, ministers, weak governments, extremists, campaigning or with their own agenda, our message must be one: we are all equal in this union and no one is above. we are stronger together, and our citizens should never have to pay for the internal games or the election policies of anyone, not even the austrians.
mr president, for 11 years, 11 years we have been saying the same thing, the commission, parliament, the independent security experts, that bulgaria and romania meet all the technical criteria and there is always someone in the council who says that because of the internal and political situation, whether it is elections, local, national or other internal policies, now is not the time. i can no longer listen to these explanations, it is not the time or the search for other arguments, such as the rule of law mechanism, which is for all countries in the european union, which has no connection with the technical criteria of schengen, which both bulgaria and romania fulfil. bulgaria contributes to the security of all european citizens. we are part of the schengen information system, our border police officers protect both dutch citizens, austrian citizens, swedish citizens and every european citizen. this behavior was unworthy of last week, it should be corrected in the quickest way and no action in terms of separation of the two sides, here it must be very clear to say because colleagues did not say it before. there can be no division of bulgaria and romania, they meet the same criteria and they have to be in the schengen area at the same time as quickly as possible.
mr president, commissioner johansson, for many years this european parliament has done everything in its power, with all the instruments at its disposal, to defend schengen, to protect schengen against arbitrary restrictions contrary to the measures of necessity and the time limit set by the court of justice, and to protect schengen by wanting schengen to be completed at once with the member states we are missing: croatia, romania and bulgaria. the decision of the council of justice and home affairs ministers opens the door to croatia. we welcome it, but we say that we have an obligation to use all legal and judicial means at our disposal to redress the injustice of the exclusion of romania and bulgaria. and i would add that this shows that bulgaria has been excluded by one country of the 27 and both bulgaria and romania by two countries of the 27, which clearly tells us that, in a reform of the treaties, we must put an end to unanimity as a criterion for decision-making when it produces such flagrant injustices as this, which denies full access to the realization of a fundamental right, the one enshrined in article 45 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union - free movement - to the citizens of romania and bulgaria, whom we miss in schengen.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i look forward to the moment when bulgaria and romania will join schengen. we will have to decide reliably and responsibly as soon as we can, but we can’t yet. and this is the reason why we have to accept political developments – there is no legal stance against it, and the drama is not the few months of postponement of the schengen access, which i really look forward to; the drama is the migration crisis that is increasing. and this is not due to the commission that much, because the commission has proposed a very good concept two years ago, even more than two years ago already, but the process has not been ongoing in the council of the member states’ governments as well as in our very european parliament. and this is why we have to push forward the agenda, we have to protect our borders better, we have to fight organised crime in the area of human trafficking. we have to do our best for solidarity between the member states when it comes to asylum procedures, when it comes to return procedures and all the other fields. there is not bulgaria or romania to blame. there is a lot of work to do for this institution, the european parliament, and also for the council of the member states’ governments. and then i look forward to go forward with the schengen accession of the two countries. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech.)
blue-card reply. – thank you very much colleague. if i have the floor – this was not really a question, but i anyway will answer. first of all, i have worked very hard on registration via eurodac at the borders, and i guess that’s a small step forward in this whole endeavour of managing the migration crisis. and dear colleague, you have purposely misunderstood the point. there is no legal procedure to change the decision because it’s a decision that’s up to elected officials at a government level and at a legislative level and this is a decision that has to be taken. and it’s not yet responsibly and reliably possible to take the decision. i hope it will be possible soon when we withdraw this blockade from whomever in the council – it’s not transparent; from the parliament it is transparent who is blocking here, to proceed with solving this migration crisis. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech.)
blue-card speech. – mr mandl, you explained to us that technically we can’t change this procedure, and you explained to us that the migration wave is increasing. but is this migration wave not also going through croatia? we don’t have anything against croatia, but when we see the numbers, croatia also has also an increase in migration – not only romania or bulgaria.
mr president, as a man who has longed for 40 years to be part of the european union, as a citizen of a country that still loves this union, although it has endured hardships and sacrifices, as a member of a nation that has survived a cruel history only living in the hope that one day it will be respected and treated as an equal, i was and remain appalled and humiliated by the moment on 8 december, when a single voice annulled the rights of 20 million romanians, violating both european legislation and the will of the other member states. a moment all the more offensive in that it was based on a lie that the author didn't even bother to make more believable. i'm speaking now with the backs of millions of romanians who know you lied to them. mr. nehammer, who did you have in your back pocket and what were the real reasons why you forbade us to be your equals? the romanians were your friends, but you discriminated and humiliated them. for them i now call you herr nehammer! ab heute aus rumänien kein "grüß gott" mehr, nur schande! (about today from the romanian) i'm not going to say anything. i thank the commission, the czech presidency and the states that have supported us. (the rapporteur has agreed to respond to a 'blue card' intervention)
response to the 'blue card' intervention. i think we can turn this into a domestic policy issue, but the truth remains that romania was rejected by one voice, the austrian chancellor, who, with the help of a lie, relying on false pretexts, opposed the other 26 states that stood firmly behind romania.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the blocking of romania and bulgaria's access to the schengen area was an unfair act. austria's vote against romania, following the decisions of the current austrian prime minister and interior minister, was a strange, unjust, unjustified act. the pretexts put forward publicly by chancellor nehammer are based on false assumptions and figures and represent not only an unexpected and incorrect act towards romania, but also a challenge to the other member states, a challenge to the european commission, which brought sound technical arguments, and a challenge to the european parliament. this unfair decision must be remedied as soon as possible, perhaps even by the end of the year or at the latest in the early part of next year. we also need to reflect together on how we can deal with situations in the future where, totally unjustifiably, against the general will of everyone else, against all evidence and logic, one member state blocks such an important decision.
mr president, commissioner, minister, what we have heard today, i have heard for 11 years. thank you, commissioner and minister, for your support. the problem is the result. it was not romania and bulgaria that were challenged by the austrian vote, but the european institutions, because today you said that we meet all the conditions. commissioner, the college of commissioners has also voted, parliament has voted and i thank my colleagues. i never got 547 votes before. the problem is what we do when a member country breaks a regulation and has no legal basis. it's lying in court. i understand that when you lie, you're punished. commissioner, in this regard, i, as a romanian citizen, on behalf of the citizens i represent, have sent two letters to the european commission. one: what measures do you take to sanction a country that blocks the internal market? we are celebrating 30 years of the internal market, but here we are, two markets: schengen and non-schengen. and if you start the procedures for amending the treaty for a unanimous vote, because in my view, it is not specific to a democracy. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i regret that in this room we are almost only romanians and bulgarians. apart from mrs dupont, to whom i am grateful, and mr mandl, for a moment, we too often forget that we are europeans, that we are united, that we are in solidarity. the austrian government thinks that austrians don't trust romanians, but romanian doctors treat austrians. romanians build houses for austrians, austrians do business with romanians. what would europe become if every national political party used the eu for domestic political issues, regardless of the truth, regardless of reality? chancellor nehammer, the lack of compassion comes from fear. it was said by sigmund freud himself, your compatriot. but the czech václav havel said that love conquers fear. this is what we must move towards, to return to a union of solidarity, of unity, of love.
mr president, the schengen blackmail has to stop. romania's presence in the schengen area is a right of my country as a member state of the european union, based on obligations that we have fulfilled. don't change the rules during the game. he who sows wind reaps storm.
mr president, i am addressing myself directly to commissioner johansson. unfortunately, the jha council has cancelled two important articles of the treaty that allow us to dream of having the same rights as other citizens of the european union, namely the freedom of movement of european citizens and the freedom of movement of goods, which are aspects of the treaty. commissioner, i ask the commission to defend the treaty on european union. it's unprecedented discrimination, and we, romanians and bulgarians, deserve to be treated exactly like all other citizens. that is why, in the spirit of the treaty, i am asking you to go to the court of justice of the european union to defend the treaty on european union. it is unacceptable what one country has done, blocking our access to the schengen area, in the council of the european union.
madam president, europeans are now feeling the costs of the russian war of aggression against ukraine because it is closer to them. but we should never forget that georgia was the first country against which russia waged a war of aggression in august 2008. that happened after the recognition of kosovo and after germany and france refused to accept georgia and ukraine in nato during the nato summit in bucharest. if europe would have taken a stronger position against russia after its war against georgia, we could have avoided the war of aggression against ukraine. after being devastated by russia’s war, and even after 20% of its territory has been illegally occupied by russian forces since 2008, georgia has not retreated from its pro-western course. georgia was a front-runner among the eastern partnership countries, and georgia is part of the associated trio. the popular support for these european and euro-atlantic aspirations are now explicitly written in its constitution. we should never forget that governments come and go, but nations and people stay. the georgian nation and people need our support and a strong sign from the eu now. georgia’s place is in the eu, and they need our unequivocal support to achieve this goal.
madam president, in europe there are about 87 million people who have some form of disability. of these, too many children with disabilities are left behind. stigma, lack of access to inclusive education, lack of adequate care services push children with disabilities to the margins of society, without giving them a chance to realize their potential in life. compared to children without disabilities, those with disabilities are 49% more likely to have never attended school. 41% more likely to feel discriminated against and 32% more likely to be subjected to severe corporal punishment. we need a more ambitious european agenda that ensures equal opportunities for children with disabilities, removes the physical, communication and attitudinal barriers that keep them out of society, ensuring birth registration, health services, nutrition, equitable education and access to care.
madam president, as the report also states, over 30% of the population of the european union lives in rural areas. i come from a country where almost 50 percent of the population lives in rural areas. unfairly, however, their development is far from satisfactory. the rural population is the engine of the agricultural sector and should have equal access to services and equal opportunities. i therefore voted for this report precisely because it highlights this need and describes concrete ways of developing it. we need to call things what they are, even if they don't always describe an ideal situation. it is clear that investments are needed and that they need to be managed correctly and efficiently. but it must be said that the procedures for accessing european funds are often complicated for those who want to develop rural communities. it is vital that we harness the huge potential of rural areas. it's for our benefit, all of us.
madam president, i come from a country where rail transport is underdeveloped although it has great potential. i therefore particularly wanted to express my full support here today for the implementation of the action plan to stimulate cross-border long-distance passenger transport by rail. i consider this transport extremely important and, above all, convenient. i myself always prefer rail transportation to road transportation. and i go to strasbourg most often by train, and i encourage everyone to do the same. of course, for this we need a well-developed railway infrastructure, connections, travel conditions that encourage the use of trains instead of other means of transport. that is why i voted for this report with the confidence that all this will happen as soon as possible.
mr. president, europe is facing a serious energy crisis. with energy sanctions, europe has shot itself in the foot. in the third quarter, gdp fell in 8 european member states compared with the previous quarter and industrial production fell in 14 countries. according to a survey by the german chamber of commerce and industry, 8 percent of german industrialists plan to relocate production outside europe because of unbearably high energy prices. because of the energy crisis, gas prices are six times the long-term average. ursula von der leyen says that we could have a gas shortage of up to 30 billion cubic metres in europe next year. it's not just the skyrocketing prices that are a serious problem, but whether there will be any gas next year. sanctions on russia have not brought an end to the war in ukraine, european people have become poorer and european national economies are slowly being brought to their knees. the time has come to abolish harmful sanctions.
mr president, madam vice-president, mr minister bek, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr bek, you have presented the agenda for the forthcoming european council. i thank you very much for that. it is good that the council wants to address all these pressing problems. that's right, of course. but how? and that's what i'd like to hear from you: how do you assess the prospects of you agreeing to it? i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of aid to the steel industry. we are indeed in a phase of fundamental transformation of our industrial societies. it is taking place in the context of global competition on the one hand and the russian war of aggression on the other. in my home in the ruhr area, we would describe it this way: we have to change the wheels of the locomotive at full speed. the right tool for this is not one that is only suitable for preventing monopolies in the european single market. i also support the proposal for a sovereign wealth fund. anyone in this house who sits on the committee on budgets knows that the eu budget is just twice as large as that of north rhine-westphalia and not even half as large as the budget of the federal republic of germany. that is why we need a new instrument like the sovereignty fund: if the european locomotive needs new wheels, we must be able to buy them.
mr president, dear colleagues, i think the importance of the decision to finally apply the rule—of—law conditionality cannot be overestimated, and i’ll be a bit out of character, but i’ll pay compliments to the european commission here for doing the right thing and sticking to its guns. i also welcome the decision of the council, and compliments to the czech presidency to largely endorse that decision. it was long overdue, because for over a decade kleptocrats could build their empires unhindered. but those days are over. europe has entered a new era. this european parliament will be very closely monitoring the full and sustainable implementation of the milestones. and finally, colleagues, i would like to state here for the record that i believe the government of my country made a strategic mistake and committed a grave injustice by blocking the schengen accession of bulgaria and romania.
mr president, minister mikuláš bek, vice-president margrethe vestager, i would of course start by congratulating croatia on its accession to the schengen area, but i would also say that it is a great disappointment, a great injustice to know that the austrian and dutch governments have not accepted the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. romania and bulgaria fulfil all the conditions for full membership of the schengen area. i hope that the european council will take up this matter and resolve it in due course. i also hope that the european council will grant bosnia-herzegovina candidate status. it will be a very important signal for this country, which needs incentives. it will be a very important signal for the western balkans. i would also like to leave a message to the president of the commission on energy interconnections. in alicante, emmanuel macron, pedro sanchez and antónio costa spoke of the new gas pipeline, but it does not solve the problems. they have not addressed the essential issue for renewables in the iberian peninsula, which is the electricity interconnections in the pyrenees. this has not been discussed, there is no agreement on this. this is a major deadlock in the creation of a new energy link between the iberian peninsula and the european continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these are turbulent times for the european parliament, but above all they are difficult times for citizens. inflation is bringing hunger and cold to many european households. many smes can't pay their energy bills and have to close. at the same time, energy companies continue to speculate to enrich themselves in outrageous ways. more than ever, our governments must govern for the people and put the economy at the service of the citizens, and not the other way around, with direct policies to protect them. the european union must learn from its past mistakes and, in the face of the austerity that failed in the financial crisis, must defend solidarity and social cohesion. that is why we must lower energy prices, protect citizens by raising the minimum wage and guarantee a minimum income for the most disadvantaged. the european council this week will have to adopt urgent measures and appropriate financial resources to help those who need it most. the cold doesn't wait.
madam vice-president, mr minister, i would like to speak to you today about a subject which, unfortunately, is not yet on the council's agenda, but which i do not see how it can be avoided because it has become a european political subject. it is about romania and bulgaria joining schengen and the unfair veto by austria blocking this process. because of this, in romania, a lot of people are angry. there is talk of boycotting austrian companies and products, of an eye for an eye, and nationalist and anti-european rhetoric is being inflamed. people rightly don't understand why they're being denied a right. i believe that the european council can do more than simply shrug off or postpone the resolution of this deadlock, which is an eminently political one, of the austrian government. that is why i expect from the heads of state or government a political approach, a vision of a united europe, a solution to this impasse. i would like to see the conclusions of this council acknowledging a reality. romania fulfils all the conditions for schengen accession and a way out of this impasse must emerge from the conclusions of this council, an impasse that strikes at the heart of european unity and solidarity. and we need solidarity and trust in the european union and not in inflaming nationalist and anti-european spirits.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the next european council is called upon to provide decisive answers. support for ukraine must continue, it is the only prerequisite for a just and lasting peace, but families and businesses cannot afford further delays or ineffective measures. the introduction of a price cap against speculation in the price of gas, reform of the electricity market, security of supply, out of the usual rhetoric: it is on these choices that the level of european ambition of individual governments will be measured and it is on this that the new italian conservative government will also spend its money. we also welcome the attention finally devoted to the central mediterranean in the new action plan requested by italy and presented by the commission. it 's time to move from words to deeds: the european union is also committed to the protection of the external borders, the european approach to asylum and return, the restoration of legality for ngo vessels, and significant investment to bring development to africa. finally, we must immediately rebalance our transatlantic relations after the launch of the plan to support the american economy. new instruments are needed because if the answer were to be left to the national budgetary capacities alone, the 30th anniversary we will be celebrating in january could be the last birthday of the single market.
mr president, tomorrow’s council meeting promises to be a historic one. today is a historic date: 27 years ago the dayton paris peace accord was signed in paris. if the leaders of the member states follow the recommendation of the commission and their own ministers on european affairs, bosnia and herzegovina will be granted a candidate status. that means bosnia and herzegovina is sailing towards permanent peace and stability. we forgot this country, but we were awakened with the terrible war in ukraine and we have to really take care of bosnia and herzegovina to find permanent peace and stability, in changing electoral law and giving all their people chances to live and to be an anchor of stability for the western balkans. this also takes us back with the discussion that the council will tomorrow have on eu security and defence policy and the implementation of the strategic compass. the current security challenges and the ongoing conflicts in our wider neighbourhood are reminders that we need a more proactive and preventive diplomacy. we can learn from the eu actions in the south caucasus and avoid the mistakes made in conflict areas such as the sahel and afghanistan. member states need to step away from their individual interests and start building a joint capacity in external security policy.
vice-president karas, vice-president vestager, minister bek, we expect this council to bring about the long-awaited capping of electricity and gas prices so that in the european union too citizens and businesses can have access to electricity and gas based on the right price, i.e. the production price or the import price, plus an average european profit margin of 10-12%. stop speculating, because this winter will be difficult and impossible for european citizens and european businesses alike. secondly, i expect that this council will be able to discuss austria's attitude to romania's accession to the schengen area, an incorrect, illegal, anti-european attitude, and i expect that you will make it very clear to chancellor nehammer that he is there as the head of the government of austria, a deeply european country, and not as a friend of mr putin, and i expect that this attitude will be redressed, this unjust vote that humiliated a country and a people. and, mr vice-president karas, i want to thank you personally for your very correct position on romania's accession to the schengen area. you have my thanks and the thanks of the romanians.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the council is debating the council meeting on 15 december, and there is also the question of ukraine-russia and the possible payment of aid in the room. you have been very critical of the hungarians here who blocked it because - that was the name - there is probably corruption here in hungary. i have the feeling that in the debate today you are completely denying the current allegations, namely that there have been over 20 searches in the area of the social democrats, in private homes, in offices, that over 1.5 million euros have been found in various plastic bags, that this house and europe are in the midst of one of the biggest corruption scandals ever. this is what we should be discussing here: the credibility that has been completely lost. on the other hand, you have it not only with the social democrats, you have it with the conservatives too. i can say that what can still lead this european union to a good future is to bring the elections forward, to shape europe in such a way that all the problems we have now can be avoided, and not to deny what is currently manifesting itself in scandals here in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have seen in the last few days what it means when the european union is committed to the rule of law. we have seen that the council, the commission and parliament have been united and that is why we have managed to prevent funds from being paid to hungary. mr vilimsky, that is precisely the difference between what you have said and what we in the european parliament are doing. if someone does something, the prosecution investigates, then when in doubt, the police investigate, and then it goes to court. this is also the difference with hungary, where corruption is taking place and those who are not prosecuted do not go to court and we have to worry that this abuse is not punished. that is why it is right that we do both, that is, here in the house, take the blame and work it out, but on the other hand also make sure that countries where the governments are questionable - like in poland or hungary - do not get the money. please, just take that into account. i hope that the heads of state or government will continue along this path, that the proposals put forward by the president of the commission today will also find a majority among the heads of state or government. i think we are on the right track to lead our continent to better days.
your excellences, the members of the council have a chance tomorrow to undo the mess made of romania by blocking schengen accession. otherwise, they'll be doing chancellor karl nehammer a favour. austria's chancellor risks losing the election in his country because the wave of antipathy sparked by the blocking of romania may turn into a boomerang in the january elections. austrian companies in romania, which account for 7% of austria's gdp, or €32 billion, are already pressuring the government in vienna to reverse its vote, considering it deeply unfair. the whole austrian press: die presse, österreichische zeitung, der standard, kurier, orf, even the official press, is vocal in its criticism of the profoundly anti-european attitude of the austrian chancellor. they accuse him of isolating his country, punishing his own companies, destroying austria's reputation. and i'll tell you something, herr nehammer, no one has ever won a war with the press! no one ever does! austria has not complied with eu legislation and is therefore in breach of the rule of law. austrian citizens should know that their country may therefore be faced with blocked european funds. and one more thing, herr nehammer: david's stone, which few gave a chance, has, however, hit goliath. beware what you 've started with my country ! we do not forget, even though we forgive. i would like to thank vice-president othmar karas for the absolutely european way in which he has acted and for the position he has taken, even though he contradicts his own party chairman.
madam president, dear commissioner, minister, emissions must have a price that changes our behaviour. this is what ursula von der leyen said in this plenary in 2019 in her opening statement as a candidate for president of the european commission. three years later, we see and feel the effect of our newly envisioned european union, an eu where prosperity is replaced with poverty, where respect for fundamental rights is replaced with more state control, where governmental transparency is replaced with secrecy to protect private or corporate interests, where decisions based on reason are replaced with those based on ideology – all with a clear intent to change our behaviour. the current crisis that is affecting all of us is mainly being caused by this decision of the european commission, which is more focused on changing people’s behaviour than serve them. while people got poorer and small businesses closed down, especially during the pandemic, some big businesses made huge and untaxed profits. eu needs pragmatic, reasonable, common sense solutions based on facts, not neo-marxist ideology, which is trying to change the reality to fit its argument. commissioner, people cannot eat or burn carbon credits. i call on the european commission to stop blocking the use or any investments in coal, nuclear or gas power plants, so we can keep up with the demand for energy and produce affordable energy.
european democracy is fragile and suffering. we have extremism on the rise, we have outside interference in elections, disinformation, unprecedented threats to journalists. the wounds to our democracy have grown exponentially with russia's aggression against ukraine and they're deepening. the kremlin is sowing propaganda against european values in our homes and in our neighbourhoods. in chisinau, paid protesters are trying to change the country's pro-european vote. qatar is buying leaders from the european institutions. what are we gonna do, just give up so easily? are we ending a chapter in the freest and most civilized european history? more than ever, no. but that takes courage. this requires strong institutional responses and visionary people. that takes integrity. each of us is equally responsible. democracy defends itself with sanctions against illiberalism, with education, with a free press, with media literacy, with informed voting. democracy is defended by a united europe. if we want to do something here and at home, that's what we do.
mr president, commissioner, it is no longer a secret to anyone when we talk about disinformation, about corruption, about attempts by state actors to actively engage in political campaigns in europe. all this has been going on for a long time and obviously this debate and the improvement of the legislation is welcome. but until we create effective tools to counter russia and other state actors that are interfering in our democratic processes, obviously these problems will exist. that is why i am calling on the commission to create a set of very clear criteria by which to impose a red line that no one can cross, so that we can defend the values that we have, so that we can defend democracy, so that we can send a very strong message to those who think that europe is weak and can be exposed to these continuous challenges. it is unacceptable to have political parties that are funded by state actors interested in weakening the democratic game in the european union. it is unacceptable for state actors to fund press that undermines the european project. we must have very firm, clear and rapid answers to all these questions.
mr president, commissioner, i just wish to make one point. freedom house has pointed out that democracy has been in decline across the world for the last 17 years consecutively. and it doesn’t happen dramatically, like we saw last friday; it happens incrementally. we’ve seen over the last month – it’s easy to forget – we had a sophisticated cyberattack on this parliament just last month. it’s easy to forget that. it’s easy to forget about predator and pegasus spyware and how that’s attacking journalists and meps. and the only way we know about these things is because of investigative work being done by journalists. and we had a european court of justice ruling earlier this month which undermined the registers of beneficial owners of companies, the very tool that journalists are using to shine a light into the dark corners of the corporate world in europe. even in my own country, in my own member state, we have a russian embassy which is widely recognised as a listening post for the entirety of europe. there are 28 registered diplomats in the russian embassy in dublin for a tiny country, almost the exact same as in the uk. so we have to stop being naive about this. we have to stop allowing a permissive environment for foreign interference in our democracy. if it’s worth having, it’s worth defending.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, russia's action against european democracies cannot happen without support from within. russia is funding politicians, journalists, ngos and parties in the european union. it is a fact that the fight of some against nuclear energy, for example, has had the effect of increasing our dependence on russian gas. moscow's voice is being heard constantly and aggressively within the european union. so was last week's jai vote, when, despite repeated resolutions from the european parliament, an eu government blocked romania's accession to schengen on the basis of lies that reek of russian disinformation. commissioner johansson said last night, and i quote: 'we all lost in last week's vote. there's only one winner, and he lives in the kremlin. i know december is gift month, but i say no gifts for putin. i'm closing this quote. for this reason, i am asking the commission to tell us how it will fight those who help russia from within the european union.
madam president, commissioner, press freedom is threatened by eu member states that use software such as pegasus or candiru to spy on journalists just like they do on dissidents, lawyers and politicians. it is also threatened by the fabrication of evidence by public authorities to attack the reputation of political opponents, which are presented as solid evidence to which the press gives credibility. i am a witness of both things, as a politician and as a journalist. the commission should be more commanding in front of the states where these violations are taking place, which scandalise the citizens of countries such as poland, greece and spain because democracy is at stake.
madam president! respected high council! media freedom in europe and beyond is increasingly under threat, and with it, our democracy itself. the media space in the union is under increasing pressure from politically-oriented public funding, revenue-shrinking digitalisation and attempts at foreign interference. the european union is not a safe zone for journalists and researchers. he's been responsible for numerous acts of intimidation, threats against journalists, and, of course, murder. consider, for example, the silencing of journalists in malta, slovakia, greece and even the netherlands. this is unacceptable. that's why we need legislation to protect journalists, to guarantee the independence of the media and, of course, pluralism. i therefore welcome the commission's latest proposal. commissioner jourova stressed that this was also encouraged by events in my country, slovenia. in my country, under the previous government, media freedom suffered greatly. the slovak press agency sta was financially exhausted, and the public broadcaster rtv is still under pressure from political hijacking. but we have and we will resist. no politics in public broadcasting, for more media freedom, for the independence and safety of journalists and of course for a healthy democracy. thank you so much.
madam president, press freedom is a key condition for a functioning democracy under the rule of law. the findings of the 2022 commission’s rule of law report demonstrate once again that this vital pillar needs immediate reinforcing not only in some, but in all, member states. to be very clear, there is no rule of law without a free press, and the reality on the ground is that too often journalists face enormous political pressure. editorial independence is under threat. they are harassed to the point of having to abandon their profession and some politicians, their oligarch friends, as well as third country exponents, make constant efforts to control the press and distort realities. through the anti-slapp directive and the european media freedom act, we have the responsibility to equip the press with the necessary tools to protect its independence. these acts are a vital part of our framework for upholding the rule of law. journalism is about much more than just the mere provision of services. it is about democracy, freedom, values, education and fighting for the truth. if we want to keep and defend these things, journalists must feel safe, empowered and financially independent, and stay free. we owe this to them.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, thank you again for this debate. i think the debate showed that we are dealing with a very important, urgent and pressing issue. the commission is determined to pursue the implementation of recommendations and adoption of its proposals, as i mentioned earlier today. we need these rules on the ground without any further delay. unfortunately, we see developments in the media world which raise really very serious concerns. together with increasing threats to their physical and online safety, legal threats and abusive litigation adds to an environment where hostile activity against journalists is growing and can have a serious impact on their willingness and ability to continue their work. with this in mind, i believe that this debate is very encouraging for all of us to continue the positive work, and i am sure we can count on your sustained support on this subject.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commission, honourable members, the council attaches great importance to the rule of law, the protection of journalists and the defence of media freedom. we all need to step up our efforts to ensure and guarantee media freedom. this important debate confirmed that. it starts with us as co-legislators to make progress on the two legislative proposals which the commission has recently put forward. i trust that we will be able to work constructively on those issues and i look forward to the upcoming negotiations. these texts, together with other actions that we will take, will be crucial to ensure that our union is a safe place for journalists where democracy thrives. we need it now more than ever during the troubled times that we are going through. president. commissioner, honourable members, this was the very last intervention in my capacity as the representative of the presidency of the council of the european union. i would like to thank you for all the exchanges of views we had and our cooperation on a number of issues. it has been a pleasure indeed. i thank you for your attention and wish you a merry christmas.
thank you very much, minister, and on behalf of the european parliament, i want to take this occasion to thank the czech presidency for the very good cooperation with this house, with the european parliament, over the last six months. we appreciate all the work done and we thank you. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by jan olbrycht and margarida marques, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on upscaling the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework: a resilient eu budget fit for new challenges (2022/2046(ini)) (a9-0281/2022).
the rapporteur. mr minister, mr commissioner, i have to go. the question we are asking ourselves today is: why are we adopting the text of the resolution on the multiannual financial framework now, before the end of 2022? what is the reason for parliament's insistence on the european commission's proposal for a revision, i.e. a change to the multiannual financial perspective? it has been the custom in parliament's experience so far that parliament has agreed, after many very difficult discussions, to a relatively smaller budget, assuming that there would be a change in the medium term and that parliament would then recall some expenditure. the situation today is completely different. the situation is different because the circumstances surrounding us make us wonder whether this budget is prepared for new challenges. are we able to cover the expenses for the things that are most urgent, about covid, about the war? is this budget properly structured? do we have enough funds? and at the same time, we have new proposals, new programs, new initiatives, which cost money. the european parliament says: we do not need a review, we do not need a review. there has to be a change because this budget has to be changed. it's not just about giving more money. the point is to change that budget in a way that it's able to respond quickly to some of the newest challenges, so that it can respond, so that it can respond to new challenges. we are pointing out where there are shortcomings, where there is a real lack of money, and at the same time we are proposing what needs to be done, how to approach this, how to find solutions, also when restructuring the functioning of the budget. we look forward to the cooperation of the european commission. and even if everyone today says that there will be no revision, there are proposals for revision. we have just revised the multiannual financial perspective for macro-financial assistance to ukraine. it was a small revision of the multiannual financial perspective. today, in this room, the president of the european commission spoke about the announcement of a new fund, the sovereignty fund, that the proposals will be coming soon. how will the fund be, what will have to be done? we're going to have to change our long-term financial projections. in other words, we know that we're going to have to change. politically, this is a very difficult decision. parliament says in its resolution today: we expect the commission to act very urgently. the commission will present its proposal for amendment in the first quarter of 2023. time is running out. this budget really needs to be changed. the multiannual perspective is in need of revision. we are talking about how we want to do it, where to look for resources, how to approach new sources of revenue in the european union. so it's time to act. in the meantime, commissioner, we are putting forward a resolution in which we expect the commission to act urgently.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, but in particular the rapporteurs, the commission really welcomes, and i in particular welcome, the debate on the parliament’s own initiative report on upscaling the current multiannual financial framework: a resilient eu budget fit for new challenges. i am looking forward to exchange constructive ideas with you today, but not only today, but in the next couple of weeks and probably months. let me start by acknowledging the work of the co-rapporteurs of the draft report, ms marques and mr olbrycht, in particular on the assessment of the new pressures to the union budget and on the important role of flexibility measures to respond to crises. in the letter of intent on 14 september this year, president von der leyen confirmed that the commission will present a mid-term review of the current mff in 2023, meaning earlier than the original 2024 date that the commission had included in its 2020 declaration. as you know, carrying out such a review is a voluntary initiative of the commission, not a legal obligation. the commitment for an mff review is not a commitment to propose a revision, and at this stage it’s too early to speculate or foresee any such initiative. we will need to assess our options carefully, bearing in mind that the long-term budget agreed in 2020 lasts until 2027. it must be able to support the union’s priorities and react to new challenges over the next 4 to 5 years. the union budget has always been a key instrument to support the union in delivering on its policy agenda and investing in projects that no member state can implement as efficiently and effectively on its own. since the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic, the union budget has served as one of europe’s key crisis response tools. nevertheless, we cannot ignore that since the adoption of the current mff and nextgenerationeu in december 2020, new and unexpected challenges, and in particular russia’s war of aggression against ukraine and its fallout within and outside the union, have been bringing significant pressure on the union budget. furthermore, the macroeconomic environment is also more challenging amid rising inflation and interest rates. we are all acutely aware how these developments affect the finances and how difficult it has been to reach an agreement on the annual budget for next year. the questions underpinning the review will in large part have to take into account the new challenges as well as the implementation so far. finding a strong and common response in this challenging environment requires deep reflection about the future of the union budget and our joint efforts as europeans. the commission will carefully assess the sustainability of the expenditure ceilings and subceilings of the current mff, because the union budget must continue enabling us to deliver on our policy priorities. we must also factor in our joint commitment on the repayment of nextgenerationeu and our ambitions about the new own resources. let me conclude by stressing again that the commission looks forward to the ideas of the european parliament in their own-initiative report, and we also take note of the planned own-initiative report on own resources that this committee is preparing for the beginning of next year. both reports will be timely and important input to the reflection of the mid-term review of the mff, and i am already today grateful for your constant and permanent support in our joint efforts to develop and to agree, hopefully, on an adapted union budget which indeed addresses the needs we are facing in the near future.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, i am speaking on behalf of the foreign affairs committee, and this is one of the policy areas where it is quite obvious that the front and back are not enough. commissioner, good to see you. i wish there were someone from the council, because they have to listen, and i hope that they will be told that too. we have to be honest. as much as i am pleased as rapporteur for ukraine that there seems to be some extra-budgetary work being done in the area of the peace facility, we cannot accept as a principle in parliament that, in view of the new challenges, things are being done here outside the budget. when the financial framework was adopted, we had neither corona nor the criminal russian war of aggression. if we have had and have now corona and the criminal war, then we must respond to it, and we must do so within the institutional responsibilities. i would like to say as a member of parliament that everything we need more of must be reflected in the budget. that is why the debate we are starting here is necessary. i hope that the commission will then have the courage to join in.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. madam president, the european parliament is continually calling for a mid-term review of the current eu funding period. in budgetary planning, it is important to plan for the medium and long term - this is obvious. i have already had the opportunity to say in a previous speech that it is the way our colleagues look at what we are doing today in this area in 2040 that really matters. ukrainians - and not only ukrainians, but also developing countries, those who depend on our aid and who suffer enormously from the telescoping of the crises that have been shaking us since 2008 - will then be able to judge the degree of relevance of our political and budgetary choices, and see if we have been up to the task. we shall see whether we have been able to defend our freedoms and rebuild an international order based on law, or whether we have let frugal countries be the ones to make the choices that are necessary at the moment.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – madam president, honourable vice—president, commissioner, over the past few years we have faced several crises to which we have had to react quickly with various financial instruments. this has indeed been necessary, but i would also like to use this opportunity to remind about the importance of economic balance in the long run. the member states of the union have significantly increased their borrowing, and the eu’s attitude towards debt has also been very compassionate, i would say. in the meanwhile it seems we have forgotten to have a serious debate about economic discipline and its significance. as commission president ms von der leyen has also said in this chamber, stability and growth can only go hand in hand. this basic principle must also be borne in mind when the commission carries out a mid-term review of the mff. and not to forget that we must stop expanding the so—called ‘budgetary galaxy’ which has, among other things, limited the possibilities for the parliament to monitor the use of eu funds.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – madam president, dear commissioner hahn, the challenges that we have faced since the adoption of the mff 2021 to 2027 place us in a completely changed social, economic and political context. it is clear that we need to look at a very different scale for flexibility, as well as the resources needed to navigate through these challenging times. today, just to browse some data, 96.5 million people in the eu are the risk of poverty and social exclusion, which represents a staggering 21.9% of the population. imagine: one in five europeans is suffering at the edge of poverty in this multiple crisis that we are having today – energy, inflation, and a potential economic crisis as well. these numbers will grow at the same pace as inflation and food and energy prices increase across the eu. on behalf of the employment and social affairs committee, we would like to have an urgent increase of european child guarantee funding through a dedicated budget of at least eur 20 billion for the period 2021—2027. this needs to be at the core of the revised mff and reinforced esf+. this means we have to provide higher public and social investment. we need to be more ambitious than initially planned.
so we do have a rule that says you can't do (words don't belong) ... and, as you may recall, flags and banners. this is about the same thing.
(start of the intervention was not made at the microphone) ... crises of european citizens. we can come up with all kinds of legislation, proposals, but if we don't put the money in to do it, it's no good. citizens expect results, not words. and we know what the structural problems are, mr siegfried muresan told them. these are microscopic reserves. we have the interest costs in the eu budget. we have the replacement of the community method by the intergovernmental method, which is a danger for us, for the european union. we've seen the budget crisis since the beginning of the year. when i started working as the 2023 rapporteur, i was the first to say that the seven-year budget needs to be reopened and renegotiated. because we noticed from the beginning that we don't have the money for energy, we don't have for moldova, we don't have for ukraine as much as we need. the financial framework must be reopened as soon as possible in the first quarter of 2023 so that we can raise the ceilings of this budget, so that we can respond to citizens' expectations. before preaching to the crowds, jesus christ instructed his disciples to feed the hungry crowds. so we can't talk to people's minds and souls about values until we're responsive to their priorities. merry christmas and i look forward to the year with answers.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner hahn, dear colleagues, i am pleased to present you the report about the outcome of the committee on petitions’ deliberations in 2021. it is the concluding part of this traditional exercise in which our committee provides a comprehensive overview of the work carried out in the previous year. the committee on petitions, and i quote from the report, ‘is best able to show citizens what the european union does for them and what solutions it can provide at european, national or local level’. i would emphasise that our committee should be considered as a bridge between europeans and the eu institutions. petitions enable citizens to contribute to the legislative work and to make the institutions accountable. in 2021, the european parliament received 1392 petitions, which represent a decrease by 11.5% compared to 2020, but an increase by 2.5% compared to the petitions registered in 2019. last year there were considerable differences in the number of petitions submitted to the committee, with most of the petitions concerning spain with 17%, followed by germany with 9.7%, then italy, greece, romania, poland and france. slovenia and estonia remain the countries least concerned. more than 78% of the petitions were submitted via parliament’s petitions web portal, confirming that it has become by far the most used channel for citizens to submit petitions. the number of users supporting one or more petitions was more than 200 000; that means four times more than in 2020. the committee on petitions had 12 meetings, at which 159 petitions were discussed, with over 100 petitioners present remotely at that time. under difficult circumstances, i must say that our committee swiftly adapted to the new way of working and played a key role in ensuring parliament’s prompt response to citizens’ concerns. our committee organised one fact—finding visit and five public hearings, partly jointly with other parliamentary committees. the committee on petitions adopted several reports, opinions and forwarded short motions for resolution to the plenary. petitions were submitted in 22 of the official languages of the european union. german and english remain the most used languages. as regards the nationality, petitions submitted by german citizens represent the highest number. there was a considerable rise in the number of petitions submitted by italian and greek nationals. now on the subject of the petitions: a large number of those were related to the public health emergency triggered by the outbreak and spread of covid-19; fundamental rights, health and environment were the most important topic of the petitions. as an example, we dealt also petitions concerning the coexistence with large carnivores, notably wolves and brown bears in europe. i have to underline that several petitions related to the rights of national minorities, especially in the areas of right to education in their mother tongue, linguistic or cultural rights, but also their right to property as outlined in petitions concerning land confiscation and restitution cases. the efficient work of the committee on petitions relies on the cooperation of the commission and other institutions. the commission is our strongest partner in examining petitions. we count on the commission also in the broader follow up in these topics which have been raised by the petitioners. member states are also invited to take part in the discussions. petitions very often concern one or more member states, or they include a cross—border element. petitions are useful means to draw the attention of the eu institutions and the member states to matters that affect and concern citizens, that they can also contribute to the eu current debates. when citizens choose to address their concerns and complaints directly to their elected eu representatives, they place significant trust in the parliament, and we must continue to do our utmost, also in the petitions committee, to validate this trust.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank all my colleagues for their valuable opinion and the good cooperation, to the shadow rapporteurs – you expressed very important proposals, you also expressed the political criticism. well, our petitions committee is a political body, and we give the chance to all the citizens, all the petitioners, no matter from which ideology they come from, to have their say, to be able to address the committee, to hear possible remedies and the internal decision—making process in our committee. i think it is done in a democratic manner. despite, of course, all the improvements that the petitions process went through, the overall number of petitions remains modest in relation to the total population of the eu. and this brings us to the conclusion that more efforts are needed to be done to step up the increase of the citizens’ awareness. and also, commissioner, you touched on the matter of informing the citizens about pilot projects, about infringement procedures, about legislative proposals, because these are all linked to the petitions process. petitions also make a valuable contribution to the work of other parliamentary committees, which give opinions or receive petitions for information. in 2021, 82 petitions were sent to other committees for opinion, and 548 for information. that’s a very important amount of inter—committee cooperation. in the end, i would also like to thank the secretariat of the committee, the advisors and my office for their preparatory work on this file.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear commissioner kyriakides, minorities have been frequently subjected to restrictions and even suppression. this was true in the past and it is still true today. the un declaration has lost nothing of its relevance. minorities are often instrumentalised in the most violent internal conflicts. in extreme cases, they were subject to some of the worst atrocities ever committed, instead of being treated as equals and partners for peace and stability. given the occasion of the 30th anniversary, the european parliament should have adopted the resolution supporting the un engagement and action, and i am sorry that it did not do so. on monday, probably driven by unfounded fears and outdated reflexes from national politics, the s&d, renew and id groups voted overwhelmingly against the epp proposal for the adoption of a resolution in parliament. what is the cynical message they sent? they have turned their back on the rohingya, subject to unimaginable cruelty and expulsion in myanmar. they have betrayed the yazidis and the kurds, our partners in the fight against isis. they have abandoned the uyghurs and the kurds, the tibetans locked in labour camps in china. violence against minorities in ethiopia, south sudan, syria and yemen was of no relevance either. but the message was disappointingly clear for the minorities in the eu as well, including the roma – 40 million europeans in total. it sends them the message: your rights are not worth the effort. respect for the rights of minorities in the eu and beyond was and still is a matter of utmost importance and urgency. it is also about the credibility of our parliament’s external action. i hope next time this house will be up for the task.
madam president, i voted for this resolution because the exposure of this corrupt ring, this coalition, qatari corruption in the circles of socialists, democrats and the other leftists is a real scandal in the european parliament. for years, we've heard allegations that some far-right, far-right people were taking money from somewhere outside the eu to work against him. what's it been? it turned out that among the most vocal anti-corruption activists, the thief shouted "catch the thief". it turns out that the real corruption is in this party, in this group that is supposed to protect the rights of workers and the working people. this is a huge hypocrisy, a huge scandal and a huge damage to the european parliament and to those who claimed to be very uncorrupt, very clean, very white, very untouched by harmful influences. but we don't have to stop there. this group and others like it should be checked on how and why it votes suspiciously regarding, for example, the 'mobility' package or the influence of other, third countries, such as the republic of north macedonia. this is also very important and should be checked out because i think there's going to be a lot of dangerous stuff out there, too.
madam president, i need not change anything about the speech i was able to make in this chamber on 21 november on the question of relations with qatar. of course, this scandal has a very negative impact on citizens' trust in the union as such, in the institutions and of course it also shakes our relations with third countries. it's a very special scandal. unfortunately, i was unable to vote on this resolution today because of the weather. i cannot therefore comment on the merits of this vote. of course i would support this motion for a resolution. well, then, i'll just say a merry christmas to you all.
a uachtaráin, on 25 november this year, europe commemorated the 90th anniversary of the holodomor genocide in ukraine. i was pleased to support this resolution, which remembers and expresses solidarity with the people of ukraine who suffered in this tragedy. the treatment of the ukrainian people during the holodomor goes against the most basic of human rights – respect for human life, human dignity and freedom. as putin wages his war of aggression against ukraine and pursues a revisionist historical narrative aimed at disproving ukraine’s independence from russia, it is essential that this chamber acknowledge the suffering of those in the holodomor. in my own country, the irish seanad recently recognised the holodomor as an act of genocide. words matter, and this acknowledgement is particularly important for the survivors of holodomor and the families and relatives of the victims, as ukrainians witnessed – once again – russian brutality and violence against their country.
madam president, we must recognize and know our history so as not to repeat it. it's hard for many of us to imagine how you could wish the destruction of an entire people. the holodomor was real. millions of ukrainians died while their wheat was exported to the soviet regime. the artificially created famine of 1932-1933 was actually a weapon in the hands of moscow to pursue its goals in terms of collectivization. we voted for this resolution because it's time to do justice, to call those events what they were: genocide. i firmly believe that we should not stop here with the research of history in the states beyond the iron curtain, that we must also see the other atrocities committed by stalin and the communist regimes in eastern europe, the deportations, the siberian gulag, the extermination of the intellectuals in our countries, in eastern europe. it's time to start bringing the truth out.
madam president, starvation is a crime against humanity. in fact, there were several hunger strikes, against the ukrainian state and people, there were at least two, and they were accompanied by other crimes of the stalinist regime, such as forced deportations, the displacement of many peoples, of many nations. the tavriya, zaporozhye bulgarians, crimean bulgarians were repatriated, as were many other peoples within the territories occupied by the soviet union. for many years, this truth was hidden, concealed and covered up by this monstrous crime of the soviet regime against humanity, genocidal, inhuman, anti-human. it was their, i would say, perverse criminal idea to crush nations, to impose a multicultural soviet society, one soviet man, and they did it at the cost of crimes against humanity. so i'm glad that this room, which has been pretty slow on these issues, has finally moved to acknowledge this true crime against humanity. from now on, we must seek an apology and, of course, compensation.
the chairman, the president and the board shall be responsible for the preparation of the financial statements for the financial year 2021-2028. nine months into the second year, the laws were taken into account. now there are more sholubthachtaí agus teorainneacha in the fra fra fra fraíochta used i ndiaidh in the ngéarchéimeanna various to thit ach le déanaí. the council therefore requests the european parliament to review the text of the agreement by the first quarter of 2023 and to confirm that there are sufficient solutions to the conflict in russia and ukraine. i'm not going to let you go. i'm not going to let you go. it also strengthens the role of the european parliament as the institution with the greatest budgetary power.
madam president, the multiannual financial plan needs more flexibility to prepare the european union for possible crises. and we see, and we feel, how many crises have hit us in these years. the last three years have shown us that in certain situations urgent action is needed at european level, funding instruments that can be used quickly to minimise the negative impact on citizens. these instruments must, however, be independent and not take over from the cohesion funds for regional development, as has been the case so far. cohesion policy must continue to be geared to raising communities and living standards in regions that have lagged behind. the resolution welcomes the analysis to which all the working committees of the european parliament have contributed and calls on the european commission to find the right solutions for the flexibility needed, while also putting greater transparency and accountability in the spending of european union funds at the forefront.
