in writing. the priorities set by the french presidency of the council of the european union can be considered rather ambitious. i particularly welcome the focus of this presidency on a more sovereign europe that better protects its external borders and interests, as well as the effort presented to strengthen the eu's common defence. we are in difficult geopolitical times and i believe it is important that the european union has sufficient capacity to defend its interests. the programme, unsurprisingly, features the renewal of europe and reindustrialisation to support the ecological and digital transformation. in my view, the social dimension should not be forgotten here either, and i welcome president macron's statement that the french presidency will focus on proposals aimed at improving the quality of jobs, introducing a european minimum wage and strengthening the rights of platform workers. the conference on the future of europe will also be a key topic for the fr pres, not only because it was president macron who proposed its creation, but also because it is during the fr pres that the conference will adopt its conclusions and recommendations. in this context, it cannot be ignored that in april, france will hold presidential elections, which will likely also have an impact on their presidency.
in writing. france has taken over the rotating eu presidency at a turbulent time not only for the union as a whole, which continues to struggle with the coronavirus pandemic, with high energy prices, but also for president emmanuel macron himself, who will probably have to deal more with the election campaign than the european agenda. paris aims to bring to a successful conclusion the contradictory legislation on digital services, as well as the introduction of a so-called carbon tax, which should help member states in the necessary transition to a greener economy. i am rather looking forward to the french presidency's determination to make a breakthrough in the negotiations on the establishment of a so-called european wage, which could help the most socially vulnerable workers on the lowest incomes. france and slovakia also share a common interest in preserving nuclear energy as a sustainable, greener energy source for as long as possible, even through the so-called taxonomy, and paris will certainly try to make this happen despite the opposition of countries such as germany, austria and luxembourg. in the eu, we have to take into account the different conditions in each country, while slovakia needs to invest not only in renewable sources but also in gas and, for a long time, in nuclear energy to decarbonise successfully.
mr president, i agree that we should promote the principle that what is not prohibited offline should not be prohibited online. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the services provided by the public authorities, but i think we are in danger of creating a lot of new rules which will have their costs and will not bring about adequate improvement. and the reason we're at risk is because we don't do a good cost-benefit analysis in advance, we don't rely on expert sources. despite numerous objections from the european court of auditors and commitments in its own resolutions, the european parliament often fails to assess the impact of its own substantial amendments. this is also the case for the intended restriction of targeted advertising. the complainants in the european parliament have not, in my view, put forward convincing studies to confirm that targeted advertising is harmful and that restricting it will be effective for the benefit of the consumer. we should only introduce regulation where the benefits outweigh the costs and follow the practices agreed in the better regulation initiative.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. today, i learned from president macron that if i want to be a good european, i have to be a liberal democrat or perhaps a frenchman. but because i feel that, even though i am not a liberal democrat and i am not french, i am a good european, i strongly support the act, or the new rules of the acts on digital services, which are indispensable not only for europe, but in the digital world, for everyone. the e-commerce directive has been in place for more than 20 years. in view of the developments in the digital world, in view of the evolution of innovation, some provisions of this previous agreement are already archaic and it is necessary to change them. the digital services act should, in my view, regulate more rigorously internet access services, but also web domain registrars, hosting services, e-commerce sites, application stores and very large online platforms, in order to protect in particular the rights of consumers and honest users of social networks. but i can't identify with the central control of the online space as such. such action can have an unnecessary deficit of democracy and an indirect impact on the right, on the freedom of expression of users. i support, however ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. tomorrow we're voting together on the digital services act. if i'm to judge what this vote means, i'd say it's a successful first step. i'm fully aware of the enormous possibilities that online platforms have brought to our lives. they enrich and simplify life. yes, we now routinely communicate, shop, make decisions, entertain, and live culturally online. but ladies and gentlemen, online platforms serve us, but they must not grow over our heads and become our masters. as a citizen of a smaller member state, i am particularly sensitive to these issues. small states are themselves less attractive markets for large platforms. but this note is primarily for you, esteemed platforms. this is the european space. the same rules must apply to everyone here. and every user, regardless of member state, must have the same conditions. so i appreciate the legislation that focuses on those we care about the most. the users, the citizens, the common people. they deserve to have an online space that's similar to an offline space. a safe place with clear rules and responsibility. our citizens are giving away so much information about themselves to the big internet platforms that we are asking for much more transparency from the platforms about the content they're sharing. online advertising must be unambiguous, clearly identified, including who is funding it. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to see a lot more commitment in this legislation. because some online platforms have elevated their profits over the values that make our society work. extreme views often dominate the discussion, with emotions taking precedence over the safety of users. i'm not interested in platforms providing the same services to non-english users. this week, however, ladies and gentlemen, i believe we're going to take the first successful step towards making our online space a little bit better.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in kazakhstan (2022/2505 (rsp)) the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter.
colleagues, good evening, i will speak in slovak for the rest of the session.
the reason is that this is the very first time in the history of the european parliament that slovak is being heard from this stage, and i think it's a very significant moment. thank you very much.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. after the unrest in ukraine and belarus, we are witnessing another attempt to destabilize another post-socialist country, this time kazakhstan. mainstream media initially reported that the protesters in kazakhstan were just ordinary people who were bothered by the ten-cent increase in the price of energy and gas. us president biden even warned the kazakh government and the russian federation against violating the human rights of protesters, because otherwise america would have to intervene. but then some of these protesters took up arms and set fire to government buildings, torched four television stations, occupied an international airport, and beheaded two young policemen. simply terrorists who attempted a coup in kazakhstan. and i don't think it's right that now the west or the european union should recognize kazakhstan just because they, with the support of the russian federation and other countries, prevented this coup. the only people to be condemned here, and loudly, are the terrorists who are fomenting, financing and supporting these coups.
i’m sorry, if i can ask you to speak on the topic, and most importantly, your time is up. thank you very much.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. congratulations to the chairman on his election. we're from neighboring countries, and as a neighbor, i'm keeping my fingers crossed for my neighbor. i'm going to start my speech not with politics, because we're all human. i think that from this room should come condolences and sympathy for the families of those who died in kazakhstan. i believe we should do so and wish this country and its people that, as it has been for the last 30 years, it continues to be (as already mentioned here) a country that is an example of stability in post-soviet asia, in central asia. i've been to kazakhstan 11 times. i'll never say i'm an expert, but i think i know a little bit about the situation in this country. for those who have not been there once and are drawing far-reaching conclusions, i would ask for modesty. i think we should wish our partner today - because kazakhstan is a very important partner of the european union, one of the 10 largest countries in the world - just stability.
mr president, let me express my deepest condolences to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the past weeks in kazakhstan. the exercise of freedom of expression and peaceful assembly should never result in the images and violence we saw in various cities across kazakhstan. kazakhstan is an important member of the international community. it also carries a lot of geopolitical weight in eurasia. what happens in the biggest country in central asia has a direct impact on all countries in the region. therefore, the political responsibility of those in power towards their own domestic issues is important, both within and outside of kazakhstan. it is imperative that the political leadership of the country follows and abides by international obligations. to put it plainly, it is unacceptable that peaceful protesters are shot in the streets. kazakhstan’s international standing and image has suffered over the past weeks. the pictures of violence and indiscriminate shooting have circulated around the world. it is imperative that the country’s political leadership and public institutions address and investigate thoroughly the events of the past weeks and release political prisoners. kazakhstan’s international standing will also be judged by its approach to freedom of information. in times of crisis, citizens have the right to be informed, and journalists must be allowed to carry out their work freely. tools such as internet blackouts and inviting foreign troops to its territory fundamentally question the country’s international place, but also the domestic capacity to govern in line with kazakhstan’s declared commitments. kazakhstan, as a matter of fact, enjoys the most advanced bilateral relations with the eu in central asia. the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement provides the basic framework for our bilateral relations, and we should use it to address the consequences of the recent crisis, but also to build a deeper engagement with kazakhstan. we must step up our engagement in central asia, not only in times of crisis, but also in day—to—day cooperation. we need to be firm, but also to keep our communication channels open. if we don’t, we shall remain mere spectators from afar and kazakhstan’s big neighbours, china and russia, will happily overpower us. in our policy we must be both principled and wisely consequential.
mr. president, for weeks in kazakhstan people have been dying in the streets. the biggest protest since the fall of the u.s.s.r. was violently suppressed, although citizens were demonstrating peacefully. there are over 10,000 arrested, a few hundred killed. let's have the courage to say the obvious: it's the same recipe as in ukraine, as in belarus, as in the protests in russia. we know the culprits, we know the stakes. to not protect free speech and even the right to life, to ignore the challenges at our borders, is morally wrong, but also strategically wrong! it is not just the eastern member states that are threatened, but the whole of the european construction. if we stand aside now, we will lose the respect of our citizens, we will invite the enemies into our house, although their attack has been going on for years, through propaganda, fake news, through intruders who undermine european democracies from within. so far, europe has only responded with conferences, speeches and coffee. it's time to act firmly and unitedly, to make it clear to everyone who is the leader in the region!
member of the commission. – mr president, we have all been shocked by the unprecedented violence that erupted in kazakhstan earlier this month, in particular, in almaty. it is important that a clear distinction is made between the early peaceful protests, which began on 2 january and the ensuing violence that erupted nationwide, resulting in the president imposing a state of emergency and calling for the assistance of the collective security treaty organization (csto) in countering what he referred to as terrorist attacks. the picture emerging is that well—armed and trained violent groups hijacked what began as peaceful protests. however, their exact identity and motivations remain unclear. it is possible that those groups were associated with some security paramilitary forces, which would indicate that their formation and existence was covered up by some security structures. there could also be a link to a past struggle related to the succession and access to resources between the circles related to the former president and president tokayev. at this stage, we cannot rule out that external forces have also been involved in the events. according to official sources, initially, almost 10 000 people were detained, but many have been freed in the meantime. two hundred and twenty-five people have been killed in the events, including 19 security officers, and almost 5 000 people have been injured. approximately 2 030 troops were deployed for the first time in the csto’s history, with russia sending by far the largest number. the withdrawal of the csto troops, which began on 13 january, has been completed today, according to the latest news. an official investigation of the events has begun. at this point, the complexity of the crisis merits a cautious interpretation and reaction. it is probably too early to draw conclusions about the eu’s future policy towards the country. there are still many open questions, including about the origin, identity and motivation of the attackers. in our exchanges with the authorities, we called for a full, transparent and independent investigation into the events, including on human rights violations. peaceful protesters should not be treated like criminals. in this regard, we note the statement by president tokayev that participants in peaceful demonstrations should not be prosecuted. we expect the results of the investigation into these dramatic events to be shared with us in a transparent manner. president tokayev has committed to important social economic reforms. however, we call on kazakhstan to continue with political reforms and democratisation and we continue to support these reforms as an integral part of our enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. i am concerned about the developments in the protests in kazakhstan. the extremely violent response of the authorities to peaceful demonstrations, the excessive use of force have contributed to the escalation of violent attacks and destabilisation of the situation in the area. president tokaev's order to shoot to kill is a grave violation of the right to life. the freedom of expression of citizens was not respected. i stand with the people of kazakhstan and the families of those who lost their lives during these demonstrations and strongly condemn the abuse of power by the government of kazakhstan. i call on the government of kazakhstan to release those who have been wrongfully detained, to end any actions that fundamentally violate their human rights and threaten their lives. i demand that the right to peaceful demonstration be guaranteed to the people and that every decision taken in this regard be in accordance with international provisions. i am confident that european structures, institutions and agencies will investigate the abuse of power by the kazakh government and monitor the current situation so that the commitments made internationally and to the kazakh people are not violated. these events must not be repeated and must be sanctioned accordingly.
in writing. – 2022 started with a setback for freedom and democracy in kazakhstan. we saw and heard horrific scenes of the repression during the protests – security forces shooting unarmed people, arbitrary arrests and disappearances, torture, internet shutdowns... the list, sadly, goes on. on top of this was a show of force from russia, which brought back chilling memories of ‘external assistance’ in countries such as my own. this is all happening in a country with a partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu. we must step up our engagement with kazakhstan, and show that if concrete advances in human rights and democracy do not take place, there will be consequences for the agreement and sanctions to those violating human rights. high representative, the events of these weeks have brought suffering, fear, and instability. the people of kazakhstan want change and a better future, and we must be there for them.
the next item is the debate on the seven motions for resolutions on the political crisis in sudan [2022/2504 (rsp) ] 1. to the following table is added: look at the notebook.
i'm not going to tell you. perhaps more than anyone else in this room, i have practical experience of animal life, of animal husbandry. until recently, i was a horse, sheep, dog farmer, living in the wild, all in addition to my work as a judge. an animal is a living being, an animal feels pain, an animal can grieve, an animal can rejoice, an animal feels hunger, an animal feels thirst, it's a living being. the animal in transport feels where it's going, how it's going, why it's going. i therefore support any directive, any regulation, any committee of inquiry that deals with the dignity of animal transport. it's my heart's business: nature and animals i grew up, i lived in it. anyone who wants to prioritize the meat business, the animal business over decent transportation, doesn't like animals. and whoever doesn't like animals doesn't like people. and whoever doesn't like people and wants to make a business out of animals, let's put him on that transport with those animals, let him travel from holland somewhere to turkey or lebanon and let him try. there simply needs to be more criminal responsibility for this kind of animal abuse, because somebody has to finally put some order in this place. it's not possible, is it? someone destroying nature, someone destroying animals just for business?
(the opening of the oral question without a microphone) ... the member states must take full account of the welfare of animals as sentient beings when formulating union policy. i've been following the work and working on animal transport for the past year. i must say that it has been a truly terrible experience to see how animals today suffer on our roads and also at sea, how they experience everything from heatstroke to standing in their own feces or having broken bones, and how young animals do not have the opportunity to swim. that is why, in my work in the parliament's committee of inquiry into the protection of animals during transport, i have worked on a number of basic principles for better animal welfare. firstly, i have proposed with my colleagues a maximum time limit of eight hours for the transport of domestic animals. for the transport of animals by sea, we propose a time limit of 24 hours. i think most citizens think that it is already this way. that's really the minimum. secondly, we should introduce stricter rules for the transport of pregnant animals. these animals have special needs and are particularly vulnerable. transport of pregnant animals may cause miscarriage or premature birth. thirdly, the transport of dead animals less than 35 days old should be prohibited. experts have made it clear that it is not appropriate to transport sleeping animals, as this naturally causes stress in the animals, but also because they are too young to be able to assimilate the food in the trucks. a maximum time limit of four hours should be introduced for the transport of animals at the end of their lives. fourthly, only animals should be allowed to be transported to third countries which are included in a green list of countries implementing eu animal welfare legislation. i would urge the commission to examine carefully the recommendations of the european parliament in its forthcoming revision of the regulation on the transport of animals. the situation on the roads and at sea in the union is unworthy and nothing less than a scandal. i would therefore urge the commission to propose urgently to tighten up the regulatory framework, but also to introduce tools to improve the monitoring and implementation of eu rules in the member states.
i'm not going to tell you. the humanity. humanity is also about our relationship to animals, sentient beings. the suffering. both humans and animals experience suffering and pain. what's worse and more horrible is unnecessary suffering and unnecessary pain. and that's what happens with long-haul animal transport. it's happening for nothing and it's happening for our greed. because most transportation misery is preventable. transport of cattle by truck from slovakia to kazakhstan. two weeks on the road. can you imagine that? without a single place to rest properly east of the slovak border. or imagine a sheep journey from slovakia to libya, where there is a civil war. only to be killed at the end of the road. how can that be legal? why do pigs have to travel from slovakia to germany to be slaughtered, processed, and then we import sausages and meat to slovakia. long journeys without proper rest are a suffering for the animals. but they're also hurting our land, they're hurting our farmers, and they're hurting our food supply. we are losing jobs in slovakia by exporting live animals for slaughter. our investigative committee's report finally calls for change. we need to end transportation for more than eight hours without proper rest. we have to make sure that our domestic rules are followed when exporting outside the union, and make sure that they are followed properly. we must limit transportation of very young animals as much as possible. not transporting animals in the heat when we actually feel that we can't stay out for very long. and to make sure that those rules aren't just a piece of paper like they used to be. to be enforced properly and to be adhered to. and we need to help farmers and farmers to stay in business. because they don't want cruelty either. it's time for more humanity for the animals. and that time is now.
i'm not going to tell you. animal transport has two big problems. the first is the massive circumvention of existing rules to guarantee animals good transport conditions. and the second is even more serious. the anit committee has indeed heard the experts very carefully and they have been quite clear that it is impossible to ensure good conditions for the animals in the selected modes of transport. i'm talking about transporting babies at an early age, when they're reliant on drinking milk, when we're transporting them as early as two weeks after birth, and we're not providing them with the conditions to get food, water during transport, which has a very serious impact on their active immunity. i'm talking about the transport of highly pregnant females that we transport in the third trimester of pregnancy. the result is miscarriages or deliveries on the truck decks, where the only solution is humane killing, or continuing on to the destination, which is often a slaughterhouse. and i am talking about long haul in general, where we can forget that once the haul crosses the european union, we are talking about some good transport conditions. anit strongly recommends banning the first two shipments. unfortunately, the third did not reach a majority decision. i think that parliament should be even more ambitious than the special committee at this point and ban these transports altogether. that should be the message to the commission. unfortunately, we see a lot of resistance and, i would say, accusations of ideology. transport is harmful to animals, but it is also harmful to our souls and our consciences, and i am not afraid to say that it is harmful to the credibility of our legal standards, which we are not able to fully implement in the way they were intended. mass transportation is tolerated, this illegal activity must largely stop. it is sensitive to public perception and i think it is our duty to really recommend to the commission that it should stop this activity.
madam president, the eu strategy for offshore renewable energy is an opportunity to support investments, and the eu has the potential to be a global leader in this sector. we have to make sure that the deployment and investments in offshore renewable energy will be cost effective. member states should mobilise funds also from the recovery and resilience facility, and investment from horizon europe should support the research and development of new technologies. we need to safeguard our climate and energy but also the diversity of targets, which is crucial for balance between large—scale deployment of offshore and the protection of biodiversity. we need co—existence between both. fossil fuels and especially fossil subsidies should be phased out as soon as possible, but the different starting positions as well as the different potential of member states to produce renewable energy should be respected. in this context, it is fair also to allow at least some member states to use decarbonised gas and nuclear energy for a very, i would say, transitional period under very strict emissions and safety requirements.
madam president, i am concerned that the slovak party smer, which is also part of the social democratic family here in the european parliament, continues to incite people against vaccination under the guise of social democracy in europe. he spreads shameless lies and, moreover, he is in fact cooperating with fascists who deny the holocaust or celebrate the birthday of the fascist president of slovakia during world war ii, josef tis. the party smer is now openly saying that if they win the next election, they will make fascists who have already been convicted of racism ministers in their government. ladies and gentlemen, the corrupt social democracy in slovakia is willing to cooperate with the fascists because their leader and their supporters are in danger of prison. these people have nothing to do with social policy or democracy. dear friends of social democracy, please don't tarnish your name and stand up against the actions of the smer party, which is using the pandemic to spread delusions, inciting to escalate tensions and cooperating with convicted fascists.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to congratulate you on this report. you and the shadow reporters have really done something great here. the european parliament makes it clear that in the fight against cancer we need four things: we need good prevention, we need good cancer detection, we need good treatment for people who have cancer, and we need to accompany them. and in all four of these areas the report does suggest some really good things. the accompanying of the sick is particularly important. the right to be forgotten is central. unfortunately, i also know many young people who have cancer, who in germany, for example, have developed the app "young cancer portal", which brings together young cancer patients. this is an initiative which we in the european parliament, which we in europe must support. screening is so important, and it is in all member states. and that is why it is good that we want to strengthen research cooperation. but the truth is, prevention is the key. tobacco can be harmful, the wrong diet can be harmful, being overweight can be harmful, too much sunbathing can be harmful, environmental factors are harmful. but alcohol is also harmful, and that's been scientifically proven. and that we want to change this - or not we, but that a certain lobby wants to change this - is really shameful. alcohol can be harmful, it says in the report, so it must be stopped. the amendments to this should be rejected. we should not be pouring wine into the good water we have here.
madam president, cancer is the modern plague. it does not any more affect only the elderly, it affects increasingly the young generation. we all know people who managed to survive, and sadly, those who died. cancer affects our lives. yet more than 40% of the cases could have been prevented, and chemicals – hazardous chemicals – are one of the key culprits here. this is why the implementation of the sustainable chemical strategy is going to be a really crucial element in fighting cancer in europe. we need to eliminate pops, the worst of the worst chemicals that contaminate the waste stream, and we need to prevent these hazardous chemicals from spoiling the circular economy. we need the chemicals used by the society to be sustainable and safe by design. not a bit of cancer – no cancer. they need to be intrinsically safe, they need to be without hazardous properties. so dear commissioner, when you come up with the clp and reach proposals, we need safe chemicals. let’s beat cancer by prevention. let’s beat it by eliminating hazardous chemicals.
madam president, i congratulate rapporteurs mcallister and loiseau on their reports. european foreign and security policy is currently undergoing a major test. years of work on foreign policy and sanctions regimes must make sense and deliver concrete results, especially now that we face the threat of russian aggression right on the border of the european union. europe has the strength to be an international player, not a spectator in international relations. an important tool of our foreign policy is the support for reforms and democratic regimes through our european parliamentary diplomacy and mediation in candidate and third countries. functioning democracies in our neighbourhood will contribute to a safer europe. the current russian threat only underlines how important it is to continue the enlargement policy so that our western balkan partners are geopolitically part of the european union and act strategically in line with their own european ambition. europe, ladies and gentlemen, must be legible in the world. it's important that our foreign policy decisions are not blocked by one or two member countries. we cannot tolerate black passengers in european foreign policy and we must not settle for the lowest common denominator in security crises. we must be united, courageous and decisive, because our future is being decided in our neighbourhood.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i was reading a while ago about an interactive teddy bear that could send messages between children and adults. this toy has been hacked and has allowed malicious people to capture private video and audio images, but mostly related to minors. this is just one of the unfortunate scenarios that will be encountered if we do not ensure greater and adequate safety standards in the production of toys and electronic devices. we should not underestimate the insidious dangers of the increasingly connected toys that our children interact with on a daily basis. smart toys can collect an infinite amount of sensitive data, and the problem is that often you don't know where it's stored and if the manufacturer of the smart toy sells it, gives it to third parties and for what use. i thank the rapporteur and i am glad that we all agreed on the need to update the current safety legislation to take account of the considerable and potential risks on the market. in particular, at the production stage and with regard to the presence of chemical or synthetic substances, it is necessary to establish clear requirements and values, also updated to new scientific findings, in order to ensure safety thresholds that exclude any form of danger. finally, stricter rules are needed for toys from outside europe, and especially for those sold on online platforms, both to ensure quality standards and to avoid unfair competition with our european producers.
president, toys have become much more complex since 2009, which is now 13 years ago. it is therefore appropriate to revise this directive. i would ask the commission to come forward with a proposal for a regulation in this connection. after all, all children in europe deserve safe toys. in recent years we have seen the introduction of increasingly complex toys, which contain, for example, chemicals harmful to children's health. it is therefore good that the commission is proposing to reduce this. in addition, toys may contain complex and loose parts that can be swallowed by children. safety considerations should also be taken into account when connecting toys to prevent cybercrime or unhealthy radiation. we must use the single market both within and outside the european union as a lever for safe toys, in order to promote our values and the safety of children outside europe. the youth has the future. safe toys for young people mean a safe future for europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have a directive on the safety of toys, but it turns out that we need to change it, commissioner, and you will get a very good text. congratulations to all the colleagues who contributed to this proposal! the safety of toys, of course, for children is extremely important, and it's hilarious that in the current directive we have, so, a limit: no chemicals in toys for children up to 36 months, as if at 37 months they could not be poisoned. and then, of course, as has been said here, we have problems with endocrine disruptors, which are not even covered by the current directive, and yes, if a study were to be carried out, we could find that we have children who have endocrine disorders, perhaps also because of toys, and we must, commissioner, think very carefully about how we can have the same quality standards for toys entering the internal market from third countries. i was a customs reporter. we have a new customs union. we need to have the same reporting model, the same process for doing toy checks. and yes, last but not least, we also have a grey market, a black market for toys, and here solutions have to be found, and the solution has to be for all 27 states. i hope we vote on this directive tomorrow!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the united nations convention on the rights of the child clearly states that every child has the right to play. play contributes to development, health and well-being. we're going to encourage play. it is therefore unacceptable that we have legislation in the eu which does not protect children so that we have safe toys. we need to review and tighten the regulations. we cannot allow chemicals and hazardous substances in any toys sold within the eu. no matter where they're produced, no matter how old the kids are, we don't want any dangerous chemicals. we must ensure the safety and privacy of children, including in the connected toys that have become increasingly popular. we also need to encourage the sustainable production of toys and to put a sustainability label on toys. as a parent myself, i am very convinced that all children in the eu should have the right to feel safe and secure when they play. but then we have to change the regulations now.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what is more important in life than human life? the lives of our children. and that's why this directive, which was created in 2009, when i was still working as an assistant to mep suzanne roith, who was calling for certain standards and quality of toys, was so important. she was a game changer. she set the standards that we wanted the chinese to follow, and for the sellers to quickly take down the low-quality toys. and i think it's time or need to be revised. because if i said at the beginning that the most important thing is the health of our children, then we really can't allow anyone to sell low-quality junk here and profit from parents who don't have enough financial resources to buy quality gifts for their children. i am therefore pleased that this review has taken place and will be implemented as soon as possible. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to the whole debate and i am very pleased that in a matter of such a sensitive nature, which is of a strong ethical nature, we are all in principle in agreement that such regulation, such legislation, is extremely important. it is the health of our children that is at stake, and at a time when this directive has been in force for almost ten years, it is logical that it should be revised, that certain institutions should be tightened up, that certain rules should be better regulated. this is particularly the case for the trade in children's goods and toys on online platforms, as well as for chemicals that may be contained in toys. i'm very pleased. i like the idea that has been expressed here and i would personally support the idea of transposing these rules from the directive itself into a regulation if necessary, because it is much more effective in terms of regulation, enforcement and efficiency than the directive itself, which is then transposed by the individual member states into their own legal systems. i agree with what has been said here. it is very important to address the issue of online platforms, the sale of goods from third countries, where various low-quality toys are coming to us. the question of market surveillance authorities needs to be addressed, the questions relating to the descriptions on individual toys need to be addressed in such a way that parents are clearly informed about what the product contains, whether or not it can be harmful to children for certain applications. so it is certainly a good job and i would like the commission to translate these ideas into a new form of directive or regulation as soon as possible. thank you, sir.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate. toys must be safe for children to play with and ensuring precisely that toys in the eu do not put our children at risk is a major priority for the commission. our legislation aims to ensure that toys meet safety requirements that are amongst the strictest in the world and remain so, and we want to make sure that this will happen through the community method by the revision of this important emblematic directive. you were right, many of you, in insisting on the need to take account of new consumption patterns like the development of online sales, but also the corresponding risks on compliance, as well as new tendencies, new developments like internet-connected toys. and i want to assure all of you that we shall grasp all these new issues in the revision. we will continue to work to present this revised proposal by the end of this year, and your report comes at a very crucial, important time in this process. we are looking forward to keep discussing our forthcoming proposals with you to improve safety in europe and beyond.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation, the commission for its leadership and all the stakeholders who have contributed to the debate on this important issue for the future of our children. i am confident that the report will have broad support, given the unanimous vote in the committee on the internal market and given the speeches by my colleagues, from which i draw a clear sense of agreement with the work done, compared to these months of negotiating together. we are therefore awaiting the proposal to revise the directive. we are ready to cooperate fully with the commission in an ambitious and forward-looking text which provides clear, clear and strong protection for children, legal certainty and also an opportunity for development for the many small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector. thank you all again.
very well, the debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow.
dear colleagues, i also wish to inform you that after, and in, agreement with the political groups, there will be a change to the agenda tomorrow. the morning debate on eu-russia relations, european security and russia’s military threat against ukraine will be held in the format of european council and commission statements.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the impact of national tax reforms on the eu economy (2021/2074 (ini)) (a9-0348/2021). i would remind members at this point that the principle of a show of hands procedure will not apply to all debates in this sitting and that no blue cards will be accepted. as in the case of recent meetings, remote visits from parliament's liaison offices in the member states are also planned. i would also like to remind you that the proceedings in the chamber will continue from the main podium, and i would therefore ask you to follow the list of speakers carefully and to approach the podium when it is your turn.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market is an instrument which must enable us to achieve our public policy objectives. to achieve the objectives of the green deal or the digital transition, we need a functioning single market with rules that serve these objectives. if non-tariff barriers are an important issue, beware: economic freedoms in no way take precedence over fundamental rights, social rights and labour rights. the establishment of common rules must not therefore be at the expense of consumer and worker protection, or the provision of quality goods and services for our citizens. the rules must also be consistent with our other objectives, which are to combat climate change and conserve our resources. i would like to hear the comments on overregulation in this connection. i do not think that responsibility for all the adoption of national technical rules, which, let us remember, are subject to a procedure supervised at european level, can be shifted to the states and at the same time deregulation can be requested to avoid additional burdens on companies. you have to be consistent. a single market based on harmonisation from above is good, but managed in a fair, responsible and ecological way.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union's action to deepen the fundamental freedoms of the single market, which will increase europe's sovereignty and competitiveness, especially now after the experience of the covid-19 pandemic, should be a priority for us. i am therefore all the more pleased that the report we are discussing, which was initiated by my group, the european conservatives and reformists, has been produced. the report addresses a number of very important issues that we have to face in the european market. barriers, particularly in the services sector, are holding back the potential of european companies, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises operating in a cross-border environment. the report focuses on practical solutions, calls for greater digitisation and streamlining of procedures. the key is to pursue greater harmonisation without increasing the regulatory burden on businesses. i would like to congratulate the author of this report, mr kosma zlotowski. i hope that his report will give the european commission a direction on how to make better use of the freedoms of the single market and how to implement pragmatic solutions to the problems raised by businesses.
the single market, mr president, is and will remain the crown jewel of european integration. we should be proud of it. in the meantime, attention is shifting to the digital single market, while the single market for goods and services is far from complete. as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i have contact with many contacts in the agri-food sector and, when visiting farms, i am constantly asked about the protectionist measures of neighbouring countries, whether through legislation or workbooks or in everyday life. thanks to the european green deal and because of the coronavirus crisis, there is more emphasis than ever on sustainability and local production. but we must not allow ourselves to slip into a situation where each member state, under the guise of local production, is shutting down its own market and only accepting products from its own country. this could have far-reaching consequences, especially for smaller member states such as mine. i would therefore ask the european commission to take on a greater role as guardian of the single market so that the single market can mean even more for all businesses in the union. i am counting on the commission and the task force on the maintenance of the single market to strengthen and make the single market more effective, and at the same time to complete the single market for goods and services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new barriers to trade. only in this way can we further deepen the single market and maintain the confidence of businesses in the market.
mr. chairman, please. the eu's single market creates jobs and growth. it also ensures good consumer protection, and it ensures a green transition, and then it ensures fair and social progress. i believe that this is one of the greatest achievements of the european union in the single market. it's the engine of our collaboration. the single market is simply in many ways absolutely crucial for us. we also need the internal market to continue to develop. we have to protect it and make it better. that is why we must not accept protectionism or unjustified obstacles to the completion of the internal market, and that is why this report is good to have. we'll see what works and what doesn't. in my view, we need to look at whether there are any obstacles that we need to remove. for example, if there are unreasonable language barriers in connection with the tender or if there is otherwise insufficient enforcement of our common rules. and if there are unfounded rules and obstacles that are problematic, then of course they have to go. because we need a well-functioning single market. but we also have to recognize that just because it's a rule, it doesn't have to be a barrier. we have many rules which are also important, which serve to protect workers, the environment, etc. so while we are addressing the barriers, we must also respect the right of member states to ensure proper environmental protection, consumer protection or workers' rights. but in many ways i think this report strikes the right balance. our good internal market must be made even better.
mr president, the single market will never be completed until all four freedoms are fully available to the citizens. this means goods, capital, persons and – a missing piece – services. here in strasbourg, we are on the border between two big countries. if i need a plumber, an accountant or another service provider, it should not matter if they are registered in france or in germany, as long as the work gets done. i, as a consumer, should have a choice and they, as a business, must equally do so. this should be true across the european market, across any border in europe – from the czech republic to germany, spain to portugal. yet today, every member state continues to put up administrative and other non-tariff barriers. we are one european market and there should be no internal borders to our businesses. this house adopted an interesting study last term on the cost of non—europe. it showed that by not completing the single market for services, we are leaving eur 297 billion on the table – 297 billion! if we do this study again, i am sure it will be even more today. commissioner, you must have the courage to stand up to those member states blocking progress. we call for you to act.
mr president, i have long maintained that if we are to succeed as a country and as a union, we must open ourselves to competition, not protect ourselves from it. the free movement of goods works well in the union, but if i wanted my house to be designed by an estonian architect, for example, that is no longer without obstacles. the free market in services is still subject to many restrictions in the union, in particular due to various protectionist measures that favour domestic providers under the pretext of maintaining the quality of services or the public interest. if restrictions on services were reduced to the level of the three least regulated states of the union, the productivity of firms across the union could increase by around three per cent. i therefore agree with the call for member states to extend mutual recognition of diplomas and qualifications as soon as possible.
mr president, our common european market is the best proof of our european integration and it is the pandemic that has shown how important it is, but also how fragile it is. the restrictive measures imposed by many countries, whether out of fear of the spread of the virus or to protect their interests, have disrupted trade and supply relations and caused huge economic damage. today too, we are witnessing a number of obstacles in the single market, especially for smes. when implementing european rules, member states often use the so-called 'gold plating' to mean additional redundant administration. in the end, such a procedure is manifested in burdensome and costly red tape, in the misapplication of european legislation, in disproportionate sanctions and in unjustified measures by national control authorities, often without adequate redress. simplifying legislation and reducing the administrative burden is therefore the obvious solution. this is the best way of helping those who create the most jobs, namely small and medium-sized enterprises. today, when the digital market is developing most, it is important to identify all the obstacles to the development of e-commerce and to remove them effectively. let us therefore not only remember the need to complete the common market, but also to remove the unnecessary obstacles which ultimately cost us all too much.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, any non-tariff barriers affect and strike the smallest, in fact micro, small and mediumsized enterprises. any non-tariff barrier in any member state affects the entire internal market. that is why, of course, i agree, commissioner, that we do have a new reindustrialisation strategy, we have a new sme strategy, but it is essential that we identify those barriers which do not actually bring money into the budget, either to the eu budget or to the national budgets, because they indirectly undermine the activity of enterprises. and yes, i'm glad you identified 24 restrictions in 13 sectors. there are still sectors where you can identify concrete constraints, because that's the way we have to go. it's good that we have a task force, smet, but i think they have to not only identify, but also come up with solutions the moment they identify something in the market. and finally, there are a few things that i really care about. i'm from the private sector. for example, recognition of qualifications is an impediment to labour mobility. cross-border procurement for smes is a problem and we have to recognise it. i hope that through this amendment and through this proposal of ours we will be able to have a better single market.
mr president, commissioner, the single market is the greatest european achievement, and it opens up a huge number of possibilities. this is a considerable asset, which we must now fully exploit and put to the service of our new priorities: strengthening our strategic autonomy and propelling europe to the status of a model in the ecological and digital transition. yet we are trampling. the obstacles have been there for years, and the fact is that this weakening of the market is hurting us, we are losing time, we are losing money. we have seen this especially during the covid-19 crisis. we also know the reasons: poor application of european legislation, too much bureaucracy, insufficient access to information and too much protectionism on the part of too many member states. these barriers deprive consumers of a better choice and limit the potential of our businesses, especially smes. it's urgent, we have to get out of this deadlock. it is high time to achieve a fully effective single market, adapted to the new challenges.
the single market is the best thing the european union has produced. it has brought prosperity and the free movement of goods, services and capital. however, almost 30 years after the single market was established, it is clear that member states still adopt protectionist measures and thereby impede the functioning of the single market. in addition, 70% of smes make no or insufficient use of the single market. this is explained as follows: when smes, often lacking legal assistance, become embroiled in a dispute with local authorities over the cross-border interpretation of european legislation, they often decide to withdraw and simply return to their home member state. in the light of this, it would be appropriate to provide legal certainty to such smes at the outset of disputes, for example by introducing a temporary provision on legal clarity for smes at the outset of disputes. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the court of justice of the european union has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. this leads to many smes withdrawing and not taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. we must therefore consider whether a temporary provision can be introduced on legal clarity for smes when initiating disputes.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this interesting debate. if i were to simplify this formidable adventure of european integration into three simple notions, into three success stories, i would say: single market, schengen and the euro. for the single market more than ever, this is the most powerful asset at our disposal to support economic recovery, growth and resilience across our society and the economy. it is also essential to accelerate our future growth model, which will be firmly based on the green and digital transition. we will continue working on all these fronts to find effective solutions to ensure that the single market continues to deliver the best possible conditions for businesses and consumers alike, and many of the very useful ideas and suggestions that you have forwarded tonight – rest assured – will be duly reflected in our future work. so, on behalf of the commission, the only thing that is left to me is once again to thank you for this report and to look forward to continuing our cooperation in tackling barriers to ensure a well-functioning, cohesive single market that works for all.
the debate on this point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item on the agenda is the statute for cross-border associations and non-profit organisations (2020/2026 ((inl)) the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament. i would like to invite the rapporteur, mr lagodinski, to the debate. please, you have the floor.
mr president the left-wing majority in the european parliament wants the new eu civil law to remove the competence of the member states and to abolish all meaningful control and inspection by the member states and even the possibility for society to obtain meaningful information about civil society organisations. with this federalist effort, they want to institutionalize the principle that the nonprofit sector is not allowed to exercise any control, that ngos are above the law. our understanding of participatory democracy and constitutional order is that the functioning of public actors is transparent, it is knowable. ngos account for their finances, their activities. fidesz and the hungarian government stand for a europe of nation states, for national sovereignty and the protection of the constitutional order. we will not give in to this left-wing political pressure. no one is above the law. my country is a state of law, and that includes the fact that everyone has to obey the law, even non-governmental organizations. we do not support the report.
mr president, this is a fantastic political debate tonight between people colleagues who think from and believe in the added value of the european union and people colleagues who do not. we are exchanging arguments and i am in the category of those who believe in the european union's cooperation, its added value and the development of the values and standards we know in europe. in 2001, i was rapporteur for a regulation on the european company societas europaea. after more than 20 years, there are 3 000 ses in europe. that is far too little, because in my country, the netherlands, there are already 24 000 multinationals active. so my call to the commission is to do more, to encourage more european thinking. with the proposal before us, we are giving civil society the opportunity to establish itself in europe. and in so doing we are strengthening the european emotion and identity. we need them to create a strong europe. i feel brabish, i feel dutch and i feel european, and i'm proud of all three. and i think that everyone who believes in this european cooperation in the future should feel that. i call on you to do more to develop a european identity and emotion, so that more people will feel truly european and more people will continue to defend the european values of the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great satisfaction for those of us who, like myself, have been fighting for the social economy, social enterprises, cooperatives and many other subjects for many years to see that things are changing, that there is a new season in europe. you will recall that the last report on the social economy which i put to the vote in this parliament was in 2008 or 2009. but things are changing, thanks to the commission, to the work of commissioner schmit with the social economy action plan, to the words that commissioner schinas said tonight, to the commitments that he has made, and to what commissioner breton is doing with the social economy ecosystem as well. and things are changing also because of this parliament, which has returned to this subject, and because of the report by mr lagodinsky and also because of the report by another colleague from the empl committee. i also hope that i can thank the council tomorrow if it makes a statement on these matters, as we hope. so i have to thank mr lagodinsky, because his report is very important. if we do not define a uniform legal profile at european level, all these actors will not be able to fulfil their potential, nor will they be able to access the opportunities we have opened up. we have done this with investeu, we have put social platforms and social economy actors in, and we have done this with the reform of the internal market, but without this legal apparatus these possibilities will not exist.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate, which was very typical of the two extreme positions that i think were expressed. on one hand, from that side of the house, we were accused of selling out to ngos and giving everything to ngos and, from that side of the house, we were asked not to seek excuses. we don’t do either. i think in this debate there is a certain need for calmness. the associations and the non-governmental organisations contribute positively to society. they work as a force of good. under no circumstances do they replace the political forces or the constitutional order of our member states. i think what we need to do, very much as your report suggests, is very calmly to concentrate on attacking the very specific problems they face in their operations in the single market, especially when they operate cross border. so we will carefully examine all the concerns raised in this resolution. let me repeat – and this is not an excuse – that this should be done in close cooperation and close association between the eu institutions, the member states and the actors of the social economy. none of these levels of policymaking can have a miracle solution that can be imposed on the others, hence the need to engage in a constant and constructive dialogue both with this house and in our member states. i look forward to our continued cooperation, and i am sure that we will be able to do many good things together, in the spirit of the resolution that will be adopted tomorrow.
the debate on this point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
and so the debate is concluded and will continue tomorrow, wednesday, february 16th, at 9:00 a.m., with the announcement of the results of today's second vote. the agenda was published and is also available on the european parliament's website.
mr. chairman, fellow progressive anti-russian hoodlums, you've been talking for months about how russia wants to attack ukraine. for months now, liberal media outlets have been writing stories about how russia is some kind of demon that wants to threaten all of europe. a few days ago, us president biden made a senile prediction that the russian federation would attack ukraine today. what's wrong? what's wrong? i mean, nothing. i'm telling you this on behalf of more than half of the citizens of the slovak republic according to statistics. we have enough of this already, and this is a message especially to all the american war-mongers and their minions in europe, in the european union, to pack up the american army and leave europe and not drag us into their conflicts, into their wars. europe wants peace. please, don't let this provocation in ukraine get you down. look at hungarian prime minister viktor orban as he was at peace, constructively negotiating in moscow about cooperation, about cheaper energy prices. this is the way europe must go. cooperation, not war.
mr. chairman, it's february 16, 2022, and the attack on ukraine is not happening, and that's a good thing. we don't know what's gonna happen this afternoon. yesterday, february 15, 2022, the ambassador of ukraine to the parliament of the slovak republic said, i read: ukraine has no information about russia's attack on ukraine, as the representatives of the united states say about it, and continues such statements by the united states cost ukraine half a billion dollars every day. could someone please warn our american friends that disinformation is not good. hatred between politicians is slowly being transferred to hatred between nations, and this is not good. the great son of the polish nation, pope john paul ii, on april 22, 1990, during a visit to czechoslovakia, said, i read: "the cold war is over. no one should be a loser and no one a winner, because such a division into winners and losers can lead to hatred between east and west again. john paul ii goes on to say that "a healthy body breathes with both lungs, both right and left. if one side of the lung is sick, the whole body is sick. i, as a conservative politician, follow the words of a great son of the polish nation and i am in favor of a diplomatic solution to these problems.
madam president, today none of us knows how this crisis will end. but we do know that it will determine the future of an entire continent. if it becomes normal in europe that strong states can arbitrarily trample on the weak, forcibly decide their fate, take away their freedom and sovereignty, then we all have a problem. and especially the smaller states on the periphery of the eu. as a slovak politician, i therefore consider it crucial that the european union acts decisively and unitedly in its dialogue with moscow, in its political and financial assistance to ukraine, and of course in preparing tough retaliatory sanctions. we are not only defending ukraine, but also the higher european peace principle. the same principle that even small states have a right to respect, to sovereignty, to security. thanks to the european union, we no longer live in a jungle where the strong can do anything and the weak must endure anything. and if we leave ukraine to its fate today, we could all find ourselves back in this jungle.
madam president, i’m asking myself what mr borrell is going to take from here as a conclusion of this debate. in my personal view, i think there’s an enormous unity in this parliament. besides some people on the extreme left who still think that the soviet union exists, and besides a part of the extreme right which is financed by putin, i think all the rest have a huge unity. i think that the conclusion of this debate, if i can give some advice or make a suggestion, is that we need a more robust strategy of the european union. it’s true you did your job, and maybe more than is possible with 27 ministers of foreign affairs, but the conclusion of this debate is that we need a more robust stance. on 20 february 2014 i was at maidan, when in the morning 49 people were killed by snipers, and i saw in the eyes of these people how they in fact belong to europe and want to be in the european union. their future is there, not with putin. even those people who speak russian in ukraine don’t want putin to come in. so i think we have to be more robust. we need to do more. first of all, maybe use the european peace facility to make a common transfer of defensive weapons to them. we could do that. we have the instrument to do that. and finally – and then i will stop, ms hautala, because i know that you have a strong instrument with you, your hammer – we also need a pro-russian agenda. because putin is not russia, and there is an opposition there with navalny, who needs our full support because, in the end, there will only be stability and security in europe if there is a democratic russia at our borders.
we now move on to the first vote of the day. we shall vote on the procedures indicated in the agenda. the vote will take place at 12.30 p.m. and 13.45 p.m. the voting procedure is the same as in previous elections. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i now pronounce the votes null and void. so you can vote until 1.45 p.m. the results of the vote will be announced at 7 p.m.
we now continue our discussion of the statement by the european council and the commission on eu-russia relations, european security and the russian military threat to ukraine (2022/2518 ((rsp)).
madam president, i would first of all like to send an emotional message of condolence and solidarity to the families of the many fishermen affected by the tragic shipwreck yesterday of the galician vessel villa de pitanxo. ladies and gentlemen, we have been in europe for a few weeks in an extremely serious situation, unprecedented, because of the enormous build-up of russian troops on the border with ukraine. the european union must maintain its position in favour of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country. the kremlin is pursuing an anachronistic policy of force, of zones of influence. it ignores the basic principles of international law and the agreements it signed. unfortunately, putin does not share our values and principles: an international order based on rules, multilateralism and the rule of law. the situation of threats and blackmail is already unacceptable, but we must continue on the path of diplomacy without concessions on key points. in the last few hours it seems to begin a partial withdrawal of russian troops and that moscow would be inclined to dialogue. but it's too early for optimism. we must hold a united front in the face of putin's long-running challenge. the european union, including france and germany, must coordinate its responses with the united states and nato to ensure peace and respect for the basic norms of international law and the european security architecture.
madam president, we must stand in solidarity with the ukrainian people, who also have the right to decide their own destiny. the union must continue to support ukraine's ambitions to become our member. but as soon as she's able to meet the prescribed conditions. as soon as we as the european union are able and ready to accept it. let us not, therefore, entertain false expectations that it will be so in the foreseeable future. today our main task is to do everything to prevent war and reduce tension, and not to promote hysteria, as some politicians and the media do, predicting, for example, that war will begin today. on the contrary, it seems that after the diplomatic initiatives of germany and france, even if we listen to ukrainian statesmen, the possibility of war has fortunately been reduced for the time being. the information about the withdrawal of part of the russian military units to the hinterland, even if only symbolically, is a good signal that the diplomatic efforts should continue. we should strive to build a pan-european security architecture within which every state will feel safe, whether france or slovakia or lithuania. but no one, not even the alliance, has the right to expand its security at the expense of another state. the geopolitical reality is that unless russia feels safe in europe, we will not feel safe either.
madam president, it was only yesterday that we had the debate on our common security and defence policy. this morning, we are talking about a prime example of a threat to european security. the military tensions at our eastern borders show once again the need to develop a strong european strategic sovereignty. we need to increase our common capacity. we need to develop a decisive and assertive foreign policy. i express my solidarity with the people of ukraine that live in uncertainty and prepare for the worst. over the last weeks, eu member states have shown unity and close cooperation with our transatlantic and nato partners. it is through this joint stance and continued search for a diplomatic way to de-escalation that we have managed to keep the peace. we must remain vigilant and we must remain united.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you must know that a few years ago, on one of the rare occasions when this incredible political slob showed himself in this european parliament of which he was a member, senator matteo salvini, then a member of the european parliament, appeared in this chamber wearing a t-shirt depicting putin, who in his opinion was unjustly attacked by what he called the 'eurocretians'. i wonder if the leader of his party, the lawmaker marco zanni, who explained to us in the chamber today that putin's regime is a 'great discovery' and that the territorial integrity of ukraine must be defended at all costs, would also define a 'eurocrete' in this way. but do you think, you right-wing extremists, that people have no memory, have forgotten savoini, the metropol hotel, the ongoing investigations into alleged russian funding of the league? we're not without memory! the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to prevent the spread of the disease. i believe that this must be the role of the european union, today and in the future, in order to regain its place in history.
madam president, today we need unity among the member states, political resolve from the european institutions and unambiguous support for ukraine in the face of the threat of russian aggression. what steps can we take? we send military aid to ukraine as many of our allies have done. we stand for clear and tough sanctions in the event of a russian attack, including disconnecting russia from the swift payment system and the toughest sanctions against the oligarchs in putin's inner circle. let's help financially. in this situation, it is unprofitable for ukraine to borrow money and investors are not very willing to lend on these terms. we can help ukraine financially. i fully support the commission's proposal for macro-financial assistance to ukraine, which we have decided in the european parliament. let's also do humanitarian work. there's been a war in ukraine for a long time, and civilians are really suffering. they need help in these winter months. and finally, let's be active in the information. let's stand up to the destructive russian disinformation that is flooding our information space. because the game is about truth, ladies and gentlemen. and mr. borrell, it is important that european diplomats remain in kiev and defend the facts. and for ukraine and for all of us.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr secretary of state, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the conference on the future of europe, young people are particularly heavily involved in the discussion forums - and for good reason. because it is the youth who will have to live in the world of tomorrow. that's why it's so important that we give the boy the chance to speak and, above all, to decide. education and training opportunities or good jobs instead of unpaid internships or precarious working conditions, youth exchanges across borders: this should be taken for granted, but it is not. the fact that young people are organizing global climate protests and have concrete ideas for the sustainable transformation of our societies should be taken for granted, as should the humane, solidarity-based treatment of refugees. it's about her survival. so let us take the commitment and the demands of the young seriously. let us create functioning mechanisms for sustainable participation and inclusion in policy-making, not just on climate and environmental protection, but in all areas. if we create more opportunities for cross-border learning and cultural exchange, we will give more weight to europe, the eu, sustainable economic reconstruction and solidarity already in school with the same content everywhere. young people shouldn't have to fight for their space. it must be self-evident, so that ideas can develop and serve as the decisive impulses for political action.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. two thirds of the 15-24 year olds polled recently think the eu is a good project for the future. at the same time, three out of four people feel that the future is overall scary. rarely have young people been so hopeless as they are today. i think we should be very careful about that. we must open up new perspectives for young people, and we must do so through education in the broadest sense. it starts with the youngest: we finally need more commitment to free access to quality early childhood education across the eu. the pandemic has shown us how important the school is for the development of the whole personality. the challenge of upgrading the teaching profession, ensuring good pay and continuing training remains as important as the creation of full-time courses throughout the eu, the meaningful involvement of partners in extra-curricular education and youth work, the upgrading of the arts, music and sport subjects, the special focus on stem and language learning. the homework list is long! to make school a place that is fun and open even in difficult times remains a herculean task. we are still far too hesitant to do so. the european social democrats have long called for 10% of the gross domestic product of the member states to be invested in education. we should be worth the kids, and that would be money well spent. the commission's commitment to higher education is right. the same commitment is needed in vocational training. vocational training must be valued as much as education. we are short of well-trained professionals across the entire spectrum of occupations. we need a whole-of-society rethink. finally, countries must finally stop opposing the automatic mutual recognition of diplomas and periods of study obtained abroad. it must be abandoned. we simply cannot afford to slow down mobility. the year of youth must be a wake-up call to do everything possible to ensure that everyone can achieve social advancement through education, regardless of their parents' financial means.
mr president, this year, the european year of youth, is an opportunity to put young people back at the centre of our concerns after the pandemic, and in particular to give them back the hope of a quality and full life. because it's happening here and now, it's not going to wait for us to solve the pandemic or the climate crisis or the economic problems. and the kind of life they live is decided now. whether it's a life where they have a quality education, a good and reasonably priced job, but also top-notch health care, including mental health care. if i were to bring up one more topic that is particularly troubling young people today, it's affordable and independent housing. this should once again become an achievable goal for all young europeans, including european capitals and metropolises. these are the issues, these are the challenges that we should be talking about this year, and not just talking about them, but actively tackling them.
mr president, the success of tomorrow's europe depends on the success of today's youth. every young person in europe must have the chance to make their dreams come true. every young person in europe must have the chance to shape their surroundings and europe itself. we cannot set the future of europe without those who will be leading it in a few years' time. we must learn from the past and not see youth as what it was before, as just participants in some activity but as the key to prosperity for the future. young people want to be part of the process of shaping the future. they want to belong, they want to be more involved, they want to have someone who is interested in their ideas or solutions. our role is to listen to and take account of the views of those who want to participate in shaping the future of europe. but we also need to listen and meet the needs of those whose voices are not heard, especially because of lack of access to quality education or modern technologies or simply because of poverty. it is important that we use the conference on the future of europe to make europe stronger and more modern by engaging young europeans. a europe where every child and young person has the chance to develop not only themselves but also those around them. uncertainty and fear, that's what's killing young people today. but we can only remove their uncertainty and fear if we really stick to the motto of today's debate 'one youth, one europe'.
madam president, the european court of justice has today approved that the european union can punish hungary, poland and other states for not respecting the so-called european values and the rule of law. for example, hungary for passing the so-called orbán law, which prohibits pedophiles from entering schools among children. you know what, congratulations. the bolshevik principle that right is the will of the ruling elite above the law, you have brought to absolute perfection. you live in your own world. you're losing touch with reality. you don't perceive the world around you, and that's what it looks like. so is all of europe. you think you're the masters of europe. you sit here proudly like some kind of pope and you want to dictate to everyone what they can and can't do and punish anyone who disagrees with you. i'm not at all surprised that the uk left the european union, and sooner or later other countries will leave, because this is not the european union that we joined. this is just a disgusting political totalitarianism. we're holding our fingers to the poles and the hungarians. the slovaks are with you.
madam president, it is now 14 months following the entry into force of the conditionality regulation. indeed, the commission has inexplicably suspended the mechanism for over a year, against the eu treaty which clearly says that challenging eu legislation does not have a suspensive effect. however, today mr orbán’s and mr morawiecki’s play for time comes to an end. today’s ruling confirms what we have already known for a long time: that there is no legal basis for poland and hungary’s claim. nor is there a basis for the eu to continue to finance oligarchic structures or leaders who undermine the rule of law and european democracy. mr commissioner, if the european commission takes the authority of the ecj seriously, if it takes the eu’s legal order and democracy seriously, then i absolutely see no reason for any further delays in triggering the conditionality mechanism.
in writing. the rejection of the claims by hungary and poland against the validity of the so-called rule of law mechanism was to be expected. the european commission can now take action, but the final decision will be up to the eu member states. neither warsaw nor budapest need worry about losing any money in the coming months, especially if hungary holds parliamentary elections in april, the course of which has been significantly affected by any penalties from brussels. however, it should be stressed that, according to that judgment, in order to suspend the disbursement of european money, there must be a direct link between the breach of the rule of law and the implementation of the budget and it can therefore only apply to those areas of infringement which are directly related to the management of the union budget. the most important thing is not to punish citizens as the end users of eu funds for the wrongdoing of governments, and we must now apply this procedure to all member states with the same yardstick.
i’m sorry, ms sardone, i would kindly ask you to put the banners away because it is against the rules of procedure.
i’m terribly sorry but, first of all, the banners are against the rules of procedure, and secondly, i would kindly ask everyone to refrain from using offensive language. it really is against the rules of procedure.
voting will be open from 8:00 p.m. until 9:15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in previous votes shall be used. all votes will be cast by name. i hereby declare the second ballot open. as i said, you can vote until 9:15. the results of this second vote will be announced tomorrow morning at 8:30 a.m.
we continue the debate on the eu's priorities for the 66th session of the un commission on the status of women statement by the council and the commission (2022/2536 ((rsp))
again i would kindly remind members to watch their language.
mr president, i have had the honour of leading the dialogues on behalf of the european parliament and of representing a fantastic negotiating team of the european parliament. i want to thank all my colleagues very much first. i think we have achieved an incredible thing in bringing reproductive toxicants within the scope of the directive on the protection of workers from the effects of carcinogens and mutagens at work and in ensuring that all these workers, especially in the health sector, are much more protected when they work with dangerous substances than they are now. this is a big deal. this is a huge success for the european parliament. throughout these difficult negotiations, we have all had in mind the 12.7 million workers, including 7.3 million nurses, who are exposed almost daily to carcinogenic, mutagenic and reproductive toxic hazardous drugs at work. we all know that according to studies, these workers are three times more likely to develop malignant diseases, such as breast cancer or leukemia. and nurses specifically who are exposed to cytotoxic drugs are twice as likely to miscarry, have tremendous fertility problems and birth defects in their children. that is why i say that this is a huge success for the european parliament and all these people, and i firmly believe that it will be crowned today with massive support in this house. i urge all my colleagues to do so, because we are all doing this for the health of the people in the field whose health we are trying to protect.
mr president, before i address the ukraine, allow me to ask a few perhaps difficult but honest questions. where were the international sanctions when the united states of america killed 200,000 civilians in iraq on the fictitious pretext of weapons of mass destruction? where were the condemning resolutions when the us, again in violation of international law, bombed yugoslavia, libya or syria? where was europe when ukrainian mercenaries were killing children in donbass or torching civilians in odessa? i hope the events of the last few days are a lesson to us all that all war is evil, my friends, all war is evil. not just the ones led by the russian federation, but also the ones led by the united states of america. and every war should be condemned. what's happening in ukraine is terrible and it has to stop. it has to stop. but there is also the terrible hypocrisy of some of you, my colleagues, who overlook wars simply because they are not led by americans.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i am the only member of the european parliament from eastern slovakia. my countrymen, friends, relatives near the ukrainian border are providing selfless aid to refugees from the war and condemning the war between the two slavic nations. the parliament of the slovak republic condemns the unlawful military invasion of ukraine and calls for an immediate halt to military operations. the slovak republic offered bratislava to the ukrainian and russian representatives as a venue for peace talks the day before yesterday. the slovak republic does not identify with the declaration of independence of the republics on the territory of the state with the help of foreign troops. the slovak republic, therefore, as one of the few states, does not recognize even the unilateral declaration of the state of kosovo, because in this case too it was for the aid and invasion of foreign troops. i believe and am convinced that in the near future there will be peace and friendship between the peoples of russia and ukraine. and it is the duty of all of us to do everything we can to make that happen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of the golden passport brings not only financial but also security risks, and we repeat this here all the time. it's unethical. it's a problem with the system. it is absolutely against the principles on which the european union was built. after all, being a citizen is something unique that cannot be done in malta in two hours by going from a jet to the ministerial palace. it's something that can't be handed out on the backs of oligarchs or people who launder money in cyprus. it's something we can't give in portugal and exchange for money that was made on the most vulnerable, on the people who suffered for it. it's money from the arms trade, it's money from the oligarchs who trade in prostitutes. it is money that is black, and it is necessary to say throughout the european union: enough! we live in the 21st century. there is no authorization for any european union country to sell european gold passports. it's a disgrace to those who do it. they should be ashamed of themselves and stop this practice immediately.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we're with ukraine, but we're not with ukraine. because if we are sincere in our support, we see that we have to do more. we have to follow the money. we have to stop importing russian oil and gas. we must extend sanctions, and we must attack putin's power base, that is, the russian oligarchs on which he bases his power. we must stop them from freely invading our countries, our financial system, and even buying citizenship and visas in eu countries. it is obscene to be able to buy citizenship at all, as several colleagues have said. it is both a moral and a political problem. it's a breeding ground for corruption and fraud. it must be stopped everywhere for everyone, but not least also for the russian putin oligarchs. so let us stop the golden passports and the golden visas, but let us not stop there. let us also take up the tax haven where the russian putin oligarchs hide their dirty and now bloody money. let's do this now.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for this in-depth debate and to tell you again that the commission, like your parliament, is committed to the complete abolition of citizenship by investment programmes in all member states. we no longer want golden passports and we have not waited for russian aggression in ukraine to act. i would remind you that it was in october 2020 that we launched infringement procedures and we have already obtained the termination of the various programmes in cyprus, but also the abolition, on which the bulgarian parliament is currently deciding, of this type of system in bulgaria. we will continue to call for this to be completely abolished in malta too, even though there has already been an initial announcement concerning golden passports for russian or belarusian citizens. i believe that we should not want to legitimize this practice of golden passports. this is, as i said earlier, the reason why we are looking at your legislative proposals. the aim is to abolish citizenship by investment programmes. in addition, we asked cyprus to check the passports already issued, which is in progress, and i hope we can continue to work on examining what has been done in recent years in the member states that have granted citizenship by investment. it is not normal, it is not possible to sell this common good of european citizenship, this common good of the twenty-seven, just to feed a budget in one of the member states. the aim is therefore, i repeat, the complete abolition of the death penalty. it is not a question of setting rules to allow it, but simply of moving towards its complete abolition. as regards the investment residence schemes - the golden visas - my colleague eva johnson has already said all that we have done in the commission, either with regard to the member states or with regard to third countries, and we will continue. i can tell you that together we will look very carefully at all the concerns - some of which i mentioned earlier - raised in your report, including, by the way, possible legislative initiatives in this area. in any case, you can be sure that there is no question of allowing the values of the european union to be sold in any way, whether through access to citizenship or through other types of mechanisms, such as the right of residence granted by member states or by third countries. so i really must insist: the crisis we are experiencing today, the russian aggression in ukraine, is probably causing a greater awareness, i hope, in some member states; however, since 2020, measures have been taken to end the sale of citizenship altogether. this is the case in cyprus, i am glad that bulgaria is also passing legislation and we continue to ask that malta does the same, and not just for russian and belarusian citizens. of course, we will not hesitate to take further action if this abolition does not take place very quickly.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank the commissioners and my colleagues for this debate. i very much welcome the statements by the commission, and i thank the commissioners for their personal commitment. i also salute the announcement of the initiatives to be taken, but i will also be frank: it still sounds a little bit timid to me, because i think the time for non-binding recommendations is over. the time to ask the national governments nicely is over. it is great if golden visa schemes will disappear, not as a result of ad hoc decisions of whoever happens to be in government at any particular given time, but structurally, as the outcome of european legislation. now the commission has the power, the power of initiative. so you have a duty to use it in the interests of the european citizens. and to be clear, this report, which commands a big majority, as you have seen, is not just a friendly suggestion to the commission, it is a legislative initiative report on the basis of article 225 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. and that means that if the commission chooses not to answer our call for legislation, it has to clearly state its reasons. and you have surely noticed, as i said, there is a very big majority supporting this call. and again, i remind you and ourselves of the 2019 election promise of president von der leyen to follow up on the legislative initiatives of parliament. colleagues, it’s also in our own hands because i also believe it is time for this house to assert itself and to not take ‘no’ or ‘maybe’ or ‘some other time’ for an answer. dear commissioners, i think we know each other well enough, so please don’t take this personally – because usually i’m a really nice person, as you know, a real pussycat, but in this case, i’ll be on your backs until we have legislation on the table, until we have banned these practices from europe and i will harass you, i will chase you, i will hunt you down until we have the proposals on the table, because anything else is just not credible anymore.
the debate on this point is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place tomorrow. and the final vote will be held on wednesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report by anna donáth, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the european parliament and the council amending regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (com (2001) 0501 - c4-0270/2014 - syn 288) (com (2001) 0501 - c4-0270/2014 - syn 280) (com (2001) 0501 - c4-0270/2014 - syn 280) (com (2001) 0501 - c4-0270/2014 - syn 280) (com (2001) 0501 - c4-0270/2014 - syn 290) (com (2001) 0501 - c4-0270/2014 - syn 290) (com (2001) 0501 - c4-0270/2014 - syn 290) (com (2001) 0501 - c4-0270/2014 - syn 290)
the debate on this item is closed and the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs yenbo, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the role of culture, education, media and sport in combating racism [2021/2057 (ini) ] (a9-0027/2022).
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, whether you like it or not, racism exists in europe. it is ingrained in our societies and is present in all spheres of our lives. millions of people in europe are exposed every day to racism because of the colour of their skin, and we cannot continue to ignore it. my friends, racism has not escaped me either. whether it was in the past, when my wife and i were not allowed into the restaurant just because we were roma, or now, when i am receiving regular threats to physically liquidate me and my entire family. and that's just because we're roma. sadly, racism does not even affect children. many, such as roma children, in europe are subject to segregation, unequal access to education or even to being placed in special schools for disabled children despite not having such disabilities. as a person who has contributed to this report, i want to believe that it will contribute to the mission of the european union, the mission of the european parliament and the european commission to have a truly anti-racist europe. this report is based on history, for example the holocaust, which many racists today and here in this house say did not happen. we can also prevent history from repeating itself by setting up curricula that will truthfully inform even the worst events of our european history. we must also not ignore what happens in the media, which often promote existing prejudices and stereotypes or ridicule those of other races. racism is also found at sports fields and cultural events. my dear friends, the only way we can win the fight against racism is by saying things in the true way, without any wrapping up in false empty phrases. the european union has a chance to be a leader not only in digitisation and information technology or the environment, but also in the fight against racism. please, let's not waste this opportunity.
in writing. i will vote against a report that wants to move people away from areas where they themselves have moved for a long time under better conditions. for better jobs, higher wages, or better housing, people have been moving to cities for hundreds of years. if we now motivate them to return by debt, we could get into trouble at a time when we in the eu will lack public resources not only to maintain the jobs created by the state, but also to remedy today's crises, demographic developments or climate change.
madam president, i stand here today again to appeal to the social democrats. slovak smer-sd, which defies the principles of democracy, mocks human rights and dances on the graves of victims of ukraine, when helping to spread putin's propaganda, needs to be distanced. the smer party has been increasingly open about post-election collaboration with fascists, exposing dangerous hoaxes and disinformation. the leader of this party a few days ago called the presence of allied nato troops a welcome to the nazi wehrmacht. but the russian military units are referred to by another of the party's leaders as peacekeepers. i live in slovakia. a few miles from here, innocent people are dying because of putin's aggression. thousands of innocent women and children flee to us every day. they're fleeing the war. dear friends from the social democracy, please don't let your name be smeared and stand against the actions of the social democracy in slovakia, which spreads misconceptions about the war in ukraine and does not hesitate to cooperate with convicted fascists in slovakia for a long time.
madam president, the war in ukraine is a terrible one and it must end as soon as possible. but what frankly scares me perhaps even more is the wave of aggressive war policy or rhetoric that has swept across europe. and it's not just the liberal media, but many liberal politicians, some of whom are sitting here, my lords and ladies, who are also calling for censorship, calling for purges, calling for arms, calling for the silencing of every other opinion that even slightly disagrees with you. this is not how you make peace. this is how emotions are fueled, how anger, hatred, and ultimately war are fueled. fighting foreign influence in elections or in the media is obviously the right thing to do, and on this occasion, we could look not only at russian propaganda, but also at propaganda from some american ngos. on the other hand, to use the fight against russian propaganda now to silence any opposition media or opinion is wrong. europe must not lose its freedom and democracy in this war.
madam president, at a time when the global powers are fighting for economic dominance in europe and the world, the european union should maintain its balance, calm and calm, and deal with things without emotion, thinking above all of the future. i'm not convinced that reporting on foreign interference in all democratic processes, including disinformation, is considered unemotional. although it is meaningful in its essence, the choice of means and measures to achieve the objective is not correct. in this context, i was interested in the minority opinion of the left on the report, which states that the resulting report is unbalanced, unobjective and in itself represents disinformation. future generations will regret this document. history has shown many times that the opinion of a minority that did not go along with the crowd had more power of thought than the majority, and in the future it showed. i hope the left mps will not be labeled as disinformationists, or blacklisted for their views.
mr president, the best way to help ukrainian refugees is to stop the war in their own country and to deal with this criminal putin once and for all. putin is a war criminal, and i think decent countries should not be trading with war criminals. with every penny for russian oil and russian gas we pay, we buy russians the weapons to kill civilians. ukraine is buying us time and pays for it with the lives of its own citizens, and we cannot spend this precious time trading with russia. russia must bleed economically, and it looks like the only way it will bleed is when we stop the oil and gas supplies to europe and to the us. then it is up to the russian people to decide whether they will be able to continue with a senseless war or they will deal with the criminal putin once and for all. slava ukraini!
commissioner, humanity knows no bounds. this is the key testimony from the slovak-ukrainian border, the eastern border of the european union, behind which putin's bloody war rages. and so i want to thank from this place all of you who are actively helping at the border crossings. for their tremendous humanity and professional commitment. often, many do so at the expense of their own health, sleep, or comfort, realizing that this is only a small fraction of what ukrainians experience. slovakia, but also neighbouring countries, are showing the best of europe today, and it is therefore important not to leave them in the lurch. i therefore appeal to you, commissioner, to all of us, that we really need to activate all the resources, all the instruments to help the border states and people fleeing from the war. and that help will be needed not only today, not only tomorrow, but for months and perhaps years to come. colleagues, vladimir putin is counting on the refugee crisis to tear us apart as the european union from within, and we have to show that he was wrong about that, too.
mr. chairman, the current price increases that people are feeling are nothing compared to the price-increase tornado that's coming down on us. we see it in the stock market. gas prices have gone up tenfold in the last period. the price of wheat rose from 150 euros per ton to 400 euros per ton. all prices continue to skyrocket. you don't want to import gas and oil from russia? i'll take that. but what alternative solution do you offer people? importing gas from australia? or the overpriced green technology? what will you tell people when food prices are half as high? when the price of gas doubles? or when we pay two or three euros for a liter of gasoline? will you tell them to keep their heads down? that they should stop heating or that they should turn off the light bulbs, as the slovak ministers recommend? or are they to be warmed up by the marketing phrases of the european commissioners that we can do this together? but they'll be fine with 30,000. i'm sure you will. but what about ordinary people? if it were up to us, we would certainly look for solutions and try to avoid conflict, try to avoid war and do everything for the benefit of the people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. even before russia invaded ukraine, our citizens and european businesses were already experiencing the explosion in energy prices. the situation has deteriorated dramatically as a result of the war in ukraine. yesterday, in germany, a litre of diesel cost more than two euros. we have to respond. we must ensure that energy remains affordable and that our homes throughout europe do not get cold in the future. what can we do? the first package of measures adopted by the european commission in october was quite good, but it is not enough. i welcome, commissioner, the fact that you have presented a second package today - a toolkit - with further proposals to relieve the burden on households and our businesses. i think the commission must allow, for example, that the energy taxes levied by the member states can be suspended altogether, that is to say not only reduced but also - in such a dramatic situation - suspended altogether. and of course the governments of the member states must do their homework, above all by reducing the vat on electricity prices. my country germany is called upon here. the federal government hasn't done that yet. in many other countries, this has already been done to ensure that windfall profits do not go to the state coffers at the expense of households and businesses. i think the russian war of aggression is a political turning point, and we also need to re-think the issue of energy taxation. i am therefore glad that the package of measures is now available and i am sure that we will work constructively to ensure that there is a good package.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are discussing today a question for an oral reply from parliament to the commission, which asks, among other things, what measures could be taken to control the political pressure in this difficult, crisis-ridden political situation with the exploding energy prices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i want to concentrate on one: the important projects of common european interest, for which we always use the british abbreviation the english abbreviation ipcei. in the communication presented today by the commission, for which i am grateful, the commission commits itself to reviewing these ipceis for their fairness under competition law by the end of the first half of 2022. it's a little late for that, commissioner. we have just launched a whole bunch of ipceis from germany to boost the hydrogen economy in my country. i know of companies that are faced with investment decisions and are waiting for the release of this money and these projects. so if we want the investments -- the ones that are taking us out of fossil fuels, because they can substitute -- then we have to go faster.
mr president, commissioner, in slovakia we want solar panels on the roof, not russian tanks in the yard. so it's time to do something i've been calling for for years. start the energy revolution in full swing. we need to promote energy efficiency, because the cheapest gas is the one we don't use. remove the obstacles to green energy development by citizens and businesses alike in a way that is environmentally sensitive. solar, wind, geothermal, biogas, or hydro are cheaper than fossil gas. we should have done this years ago. not waiting for the climate crisis to get worse. until putin attacks the ukraine, and actually us. now we have to add. we must run, but not in a way that leaves the most vulnerable and the poorest behind. that's where the climate check helps, which puts the emissions fees on people, not polluters. putin won't cut off our green energy or raise our price on the stock market. it's ours, it's the energy of freedom.
mr president, today, we have to talk about both the energy prices hike and energy security. first, ets emissions allowances. it appears that while allowances prices have fallen by a third since the start of the war in ukraine, the gas price is rising extremely high. i think that we have seen genuine market manipulation and speculative trading in recent months. investors have taken profits from growing prices of the allowances and moved their money elsewhere, driving the price down. it’s important for the future that the european commission prevent such practices from happening. current developments in ukraine show that europe must reduce its dependence on russian gas as soon as possible. however, we should not forget about our own energy security. the eu currently has about 27% of gas in storage for the rest of the winter, which should be enough. but the big question is how to ensure that the storage utilities are full for next winter, by the end of november at the latest. several analyses showed that without russian gas, europe will be short of at least 30 billion cubic meters of gas. so how to replace it? i know that there is the option of lng. there are lng terminals on the coast of northern baltic sea. but how do we import it, how do we take it to central europe? i think this is a big question and we have to think about it. we have to invest in the gas infrastructure. i don’t think now but the other option is nuclear. i know that we are not friends of nuclear, but we will need it for some time.
our next rapporteur, irene tinagli, is stuck in traffic in strasbourg and will therefore have the opportunity to present her report when she arrives later.
acting president of the council. madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the council attaches great importance to the european semester and i look forward to exchanging views with you this morning. the european semester remains particularly relevant to ensure effective coordination of economic policies. clearly, we cannot ignore or accurately predict the impact that russia's brutal and unjustified aggression against ukraine is likely to have on the economic outlook. we will do everything we can to limit the impact on our countries, our citizens, our businesses. the council welcomes the economic priorities proposed by the commission in the 2022 annual review of sustainable growth, which aims at a sustainable and equitable recovery. however, in this difficult and uncertain environment, we have economic, social and environmental challenges to address and work to do. the economic impact of the covid-19 pandemic continues to be felt across our economies. the lockdown measures coupled with supply constraints have contributed to inflation rising beyond forecasts, which has a negative impact on the daily lives of our citizens. supply disruptions and other factors aggravating inflation, such as higher energy prices, are also likely to intensify due to the current geopolitical situation. some of the more vulnerable components of our society have been particularly affected by the pandemic. i am thinking of workers in atypical jobs or with fixed-term contracts, low-skilled workers, young people, single parents, disabled people and workers born outside the european union. many member states remain under pressure due to increased strain on health systems, coupled with staff shortages. it is essential to protect our citizens, their health and their jobs. in view of the current level of uncertainty, the council is of the opinion that member states should remain flexible in their fiscal policy response in order to be able to react to the evolution of the current situation. we therefore invite member states to regularly reassess the use, effectiveness and adequacy of support measures and to be prepared to adapt them, if necessary, to changing circumstances while preserving the sustainability of public finances. the council is convinced that the implementation of a coherent set of reforms and public and private investment supporting competitiveness and job creation will help to increase employment, productivity and innovation and support the dual transition. we also welcome the commission's proposal for a joint report on employment in 2022 and the increased focus on the principles of the european pillar of social rights, as well as the integration of the broad objectives and indicators of the social scoreboard in the proposal, in line with the european semester and the porto declaration. as your reports have pointed out, there are persistent and growing inequalities between and within the member states and regions. in fact, they've been exacerbated by the effects of the pandemic. these growing inequalities exacerbate poverty and social exclusion. thus, robust social protection and labour market measures are needed to mitigate the effects. this requires sustained and coordinated efforts. the proper functioning of the single market is by its nature an important source of productivity for the eu economy and remains a priority for the french presidency. the european semester is the main instrument we have to do this. the framework for meeting these challenges and ensuring effective coordination of economic policies remains in place. this is why member states, including national parliaments, should take every opportunity to engage in a transparent dialogue with the commission, at all stages of the european semester and within the framework of the recovery and resilience facility, in particular to promote the implementation of the national recovery and resilience plans and, at the same time, to ensure effective multilateral surveillance. the french presidency intends to ensure a smooth cycle of the european semester and to ensure that all parties concerned make every effort to achieve the common objective of having the country-specific recommendations endorsed by the european council.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, today, our hearts and minds are with ukraine. russia’s barbaric and illegal invasion, its attacks against civilians, continue to take the ultimate toll of innocent people. i express my condolences to the ukrainian people for their losses, and i salute their courage and determination to defend their homeland and our european values. we stand by ukraine, providing all the support we can, and we are putting maximum pressure on russia to stop the aggression. there is no doubt that these dramatic events – including sanctions we are introducing against russia and russia’s counter-sanctions – will weigh on the european economy. we will see overall higher inflation, more pressure on energy and food prices, and market volatility. while uncertainty is very high, our current assessment is that growth will clearly be impacted. but this is a price worth paying for defending freedom and peace, and our economic fundamentals are strong. the eu economy has regained all the ground lost during the covid—19 crisis. unemployment is at a record low. this is not least thanks to the unprecedented policies we have put in place: next generation eu and the recovery and resilience facility (rrf). this very worrying situation once again shows the importance of europe remaining united, strong and resilient, and of sticking to our policies, because they are working. promoting economic and social resilience is vital to ensuring europe’s stability and prosperity. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, irene tinagli and helmut geuking. their report demonstrates the broad alignment of views for coordinated policies to support our inclusive green and digital future. the european semester remains our framework for coordinating the eu’s economic and employment policies. we have adapted it to take into account the implementation of the rrf. with its very large investments in energy efficiency, decarbonisation and renewables, as well as in the resilience of vital infrastructure, the rrf is a powerful tool to reduce our energy dependency and build europe’s future stability. the 30% of expenditure committed so far to employment and social goals will help to mitigate the impact of the transition on the most vulnerable, and also strengthen our social resilience. since we are now going through exceptional uncertainty, we will use the european semester to identify new challenges and to follow up on those not addressed under the recovery and resilience plans. on the fiscal side, member states need to continue supporting their economies this year with targeted measures. as you know, the general escape clause remains activated. last week, the european commission provided preliminary fiscal guidance for 2023. our current projections indicate that the general escape clause is due to be disactivated as of next year, but in view of the uncertainty, we will reassess this in the spring on the basis of our spring economic forecast. overall, fiscal support should remain broadly at the same level as this year – this means a broadly neutral fiscal stance – and the rff will continue to provide substantial support. in turn, high-debt member states should start to rebuild buffers in a growth—friendly way. to achieve this, budgetary atunement should be gradual, and all member states should promote and protect public investment in their fiscal plans. this underscores the importance of improving the quality and composition of public finances. honourable members, these are exceptional times. we are living through a period of very high uncertainty. our policies need to remain agile. we need to monitor developments very closely, see how different risks evolve, and adjust our policies as necessary.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – madam president, the european semester was born out of the financial crisis of the late 2000s. now we are facing the climate and biodiversity crisis, the – hopefully – post-pandemic recovery, but also the security and energy threats that culminated with the russian invasion of ukraine. it’s time to make it ready for the 2020s. it’s time to recognise that ‘business as usual’ is over. and that also means new ways of monitoring progress in delivery of what we agreed on together. the new deal, including the acceleration of the green energy drive, that we need to do to cut our strategically dangerous dependence on russian fossil fuels, needs to be properly reflected in the semester’s monitoring framework. true sustainability, fitting the eu into planetary limits, needs to rest on three pillars: the economic, the social and the environmental. we need to ensure that we are coherent in all three of them, and that means from an energy perspective that we need to further integrate the eu’s climate, environmental – including biodiversity – and social objectives in a more comprehensive manner. economic indicators are not enough in times of need to reduce our ecological footprint. we need to check properly the alignment of the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) and multiannual financial framework (mff) with the climate and biodiversity spending targets, but also policy objectives. we cannot allow our public money to do significant harm. we cannot afford regression, and we need to include partners, not just us in the parliament, but also civil society, social partners, scientific bodies and other stakeholders. we need a semester that looks at progress towards sustainability as a whole, not just part of it.
ladies and gentlemen, batteries are extremely important for european industrial competitiveness and for the achievement of the green agenda, which is ambitious. as technology advances, the capabilities and performance of batteries increase, which further encourages, of course, their widespread use. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had not provided any evidence that the chinese exporting producers had been able to obtain the necessary raw materials from the chinese exporting producers. recognising this importance, the european union has invested eur 127 billion by 2021 and is expected to invest an additional eur 382 billion by 2030. i commend such ambition and find it encouraging. i also welcome the efforts of this report which sets out a common set of rules for sustainability, safety, labelling and information related to the use of batteries. the report also defines the requirements for the collection, treatment and recycling of waste batteries. in this way, we strengthen the functioning of the single market, promote a circular economy and reduce the environmental and social impact throughout the life cycle of batteries. i would like to take this opportunity to highlight a positive example from my home country, the republic of croatia. it's about the success of young entrepreneur and innovator mate rimc whose company rimac automobiles produces high-quality batteries for the world's fastest electric car, the nevera. i also commend the recognition at the european union level that innovators and those already living through the green transition have that financial support. so the future has already happened somewhere. ladies and gentlemen, the future will increasingly be powered by energy stored in batteries, and it is up to us to lay the legislative foundations that will make them environmentally acceptable and, of course, economically viable.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as the eu moves from the coal and steel union to becoming the world's first climate-neutral region, electrification is the big key. we need batteries, lots of them. it is therefore important that the sustainable transition also becomes sustainable. the whole life cycle must be sustainable. our batteries must be produced with full respect for human rights, with sustainable production methods and with as much recycled material as possible. i am therefore pleased with the progressive mandate we are taking today in the battery regulation, with five clear increases in ambition: 1. higher targets for the recycling of portable batteries; 2. all car and industrial batteries will be collected; 3. clear labelling of the carbon footprint of batteries throughout the manufacturing process; 4. more common standards for chargers; 5. manufacturers must ensure that standards of social and environmental sustainability are met. i would like to conclude by thanking my party colleague simona bonafè for her excellent work as rapporteur, and i would like to wish you, simona, the very best of luck in the important negotiations ahead.
madam president, the impact of the war in ukraine is everywhere, even in relation to batteries. the war has already shut down the production of electric cars in a number of member states, including the czech republic, due to the electric parts that go into connecting batteries to the vehicles being blocked. as vehicle manufacturers struggle to find new sources of supplies, we must prevent a similar problem in the future with the batteries themselves. that is why this legislation should help support better production and recycling in europe, so that, in the future, we have a safe supply of raw and recycled materials. at the same time, this legislation must not be used as a tool against a global supply chain. when we are not faced with a crisis, the best source of many batteries and battery materials will continue to be outside the european union. i firmly believe that we must work with other international players, including in the un economic commission of africa (eca) forum, as we implement this legislation towards making these rules universal and not for europe alone. as we move towards a future of electric vehicles, the question of batteries will not be a question of aa or aaa batteries. we need a plan for what to do with these huge car and truck batteries. the car industry must be a partner in this and our laws must be able to be implemented. as we go into trilogues, i ask all sides to make sure this law will work in practice. only if we work with the industry will we get this right.
i have to say, madam president, batteries are an integral part of our daily lives, but batteries are now more than just our everyday household products. the demand for batteries will increase rapidly in the coming years, especially for electric vehicles. it was therefore right and important to have a bill that does not only deal with used batteries and only certain categories of batteries, but looks at the entire cycle of all batteries, from their creation to their final disposal. this is all the more important as batteries are expected to play a crucial role in the mobility revolution. however, batteries require a lot of raw materials. it was therefore only logical to adopt a circular approach. because we're running out of raw materials. their extraction must respect human rights and environmental standards and must not endanger protected areas. but not only did we need to increase recycling rates, but to really recycle all the raw materials, we also need a better collection system for all the batteries and a better design of the batteries. recycling starts at the point of production and must be considered holistically. equally important, the law extended the duty of care of economic operators for human rights and our environment to the entire value chain, that is, to all batteries, all materials, including waste treatment. i am very pleased that we have been able to bring this in. we've also managed to limit the amount of toxic substances in batteries. i would like to take this opportunity to highlight another aspect: the number of battery factories in europe is increasing. these could be built on industrial wastelands, but unfortunately they are increasingly being designed on green areas such as farmland or forests. in addition, they are even built in protected water areas. the example here is tesla in brandenburg, germany. in the fight against climate change, we cannot be blind to the loss of biodiversity and to the need to protect soil and water. to be sustainable, you have to think holistically. this proposal is a first good step in that direction.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the ideology of the green deal gives europeans the blind illusion that the ecological transition of our one, tiny europe can save us from the so-called climate crisis, while everything out there around us is leading to serious shortages of strategic raw materials. the commission has not found any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the batteries are produced in the union. the european union now imports 98% of its needs from china, despite various partnerships with other countries, the most recent one being with the agonized ukraine on 13 july. so to have common standards and to think about battery production and disposal in a circular logic is a step forward, but we know that it will not be enough and that we need time. the commission should open its eyes to this reality: the objectives and timetables for achieving climate neutrality are not realistic and to think of achieving them by relying entirely on electricity will not only go against the principle of technological neutrality but will make us even more dependent on third countries, with the blessing of the much-vaunted energy sovereignty. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. today's images, today's costs should teach us something, and instead we continue with the same suicidal approach as yesterday. stop before it's too late.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate simona bonafè on the work that has been done in this report on batteries. we know that moving away from fossil fuels will inevitably require more batteries, which is why the regulation as proposed today is necessary. indeed, more batteries will mean more recycling and more circular economy. we know that today only 12% of aluminium, 22% of cobalt and 16% of nickel are recycled, and 52% of waste is actually collected. more batteries will also mean more extraction of resources, and this cannot be at the expense of the countries and the people who own them. that is why the inclusion of a duty of care is so important to ensure that the batteries we use do not cause environmental or social damage. but more batteries means more potentially hazardous chemicals that will need to be replaced by more sustainable alternatives, as required by reach legislation at present. only then will the transition be sustainable.
madam president, commissioner, we carry our mobile phones and computers with us everywhere. batteries have become a very common part of our lives, and it's really not just about the little pencil batteries anymore. we love technology. but we only love them when they really work. and i'll tell you, it makes me very angry when i have to buy a new cell phone or a new computer just because i can't change the battery. the crazy thing is, it's often more financially rewarding than replacing the battery itself. that's why we need to change things. and i'm not just talking about batteries in computers or cell phones. it's a question of batteries in cars, batteries in bicycles these days, or in the electrical grid. we don't have endless resources at our disposal. we only have one planet. she has her own abilities. and i think we all realize that by 2022. that is why this legislation is so timely. it must have rules not only for the production, replacement or disposal of batteries but also for their recycling. we need to finally move to a circular economy for batteries as well. it's something we've all been calling for a long time. not only must batteries be fully recyclable, but they must also be made from secondary raw materials. and they must be made without toxic substances. we can't pretend that what's beyond the borders doesn't concern us. if we demand safe and fair working conditions at home, so do the workers who produce batteries for the european market. if we protect nature at home, we can't destroy the environment for our own needs where we can't see it. as europe, we have the opportunity through this legislation to influence the world market, to set standards that are respected not only in our country but around the world. we can make it the gold standard for the world. batteries are going to be very important in the future. but only batteries made and used in a way that is friendly to the planet and to people will help us create a green and just future.
madam president, the war in ukraine confirmed how vital it is for europe to increase its resilience and strategic autonomy in all key sectors in order to increase the competitiveness of our industries and, above all, decrease our dependence on third countries, including russia. in this context, let me mention the european battery alliance established by the vice-president of the european commission, maros šefčovič, is a good example of how to decrease both dependency on foreign countries and emissions at the same time. we are moving towards strategic autonomy in this sector, which is critical for the green and digital transformation. the total investment with the entire battery value chain reached eur 127 billion, which makes europe a global battery hotspot. at this pace, we are set to meet almost 90% of the domestic demand for batteries by 2030, but satisfying a growing demand depends on our ability to face two challenges: critical raw materials and skills. almost one million workers need to be re-skilled in the next three years. securing supplies of critical raw materials such as lithium, cobalt and magnesium is a strategic security question for europe. current regulation has to be used to demand stronger sustainability and performance requirements and clear targets for waste collection and recycling efficiency. thank you also to our rapporteur, ms bonafè. we are going in this direction. we must make europe more attractive for the development of sustainable raw materials projects, while respecting the highest environmental standards and protecting public health.
for the renew group. mr president, health and safety at work is a huge topic, especially in view of the enormous challenges ahead. that's the green and digital transformation. but also because it involves a huge number of people. that's 170 million workers within the european union. and despite the progress we have made over the last 25 years, in 2018, there were more than 3300 fatal accidents at work across the european union. and 3.1 million nonfatal injuries. and to this, of course, must be added the approximately 200,000 deaths each year from occupational diseases. these are huge numbers. this is a huge amount of human suffering. apart from the covid-19 pandemic, it has of course shown the vulnerability of workers with non-standard contracts, including workers working digitally or via platforms, or, as commissioner schmid has already mentioned, people who are self-employed. therefore, maintaining and improving the level of protection of these workers is a truly huge topic in the context of the green and digital transformation. i welcome the introduction of the zero-mortality approach to occupational accidents and diseases in the commission's strategic framework for 2021-27. however, i think that the strategic framework could have been more specific and could have been more focused on implementing effective measures, and i also think it is very important that the commission presents concrete proposals that are in line with all those ambitions and develop a plan to reduce the number of occupational accidents and deaths at work. at the same time, i think it is absolutely essential that member states in the future focus more on implementing prevention strategies, and prevention is expensive. they need money for this, which means that more and more financial resources will have to be made available to the member states. i like that the commission has increased its ambition in the fight against cancer. i would like to point out here, as the honourable member has already done before me, that the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens must be updated continuously and within an ambitious timeframe, as we agreed with our other trilogues when we reviewed it, because we need new limit values for at least 25 other priority substances. at the same time, new limits for lead, asbestos and cobalt. in this context, we should certainly not forget the disabled and young workers. therefore, ambitious guidelines must be clearly provided to member states and employers.
madam president, when i see the impact that some of these sanctions are beginning to have on the european economy, how some of the basic raw materials are beginning to be lacking, how factories are ceasing to produce, how the big car manufacturers are closing down, how the prices of energy and food are skyrocketing, i have to ask you whether the aim of these anti-russian sanctions is to punish the russian federation or to economically devastate europe, because many of these sanctions are really very badly prepared to the detriment of europe. we're talking about a coming food crisis here. for years we have been calling for a fundamental reform of the european union's common agricultural policy. nothing was done. instead, nonsense is being discussed, as in the last plenary when the vote was taken on the lack of toilets for the third sex. so i propose a constructive solution, starting immediately with the restoration of agriculture in central europe. there is huge potential for producing quality, affordable, healthy food for millions of people. it's not used, it's not used. we could start thinking a little bit constructively and finally get involved in this region. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card. )
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you, mrs. shoydro, for the blue card. as for those sanctions, of course, no one is questioning that they are to be directed against the russian federation. it's perfectly natural, and that's what they're supposed to be for. but it is also clear from the reactions of slovak farmers, industrialists and traders in general that many of these sanctions are hurting europe, the european union, european industry more than the russian federation itself, because the war is still going on and european companies are not doing well and are also getting into economic difficulties. and we'll see which side can endure this sanctions war longer, whether it's the russian federation or europe and european industry. this is a pragmatic thing, this is not about standing up for russia or defending russian aggression, it's just that somebody has to think a little bit rationally. we cannot all just lament the misery that is happening in ukraine at the moment, but we must think about what will happen to europe in the future. so this is how we should look at the future.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, madam commissioner, let me thank the rapporteur angelika winzig for the fruitful cooperation in reaching the agreement on this revision, also to other shadow rapporteurs from other political groups. ‘roaming like at home’ became a reality in 2017 and it changed our travelling patterns forever. after more than two years of pandemic, with the war in ukraine, europe is now facing even more serious challenges. as s&d negotiator for roaming, i am glad we managed not only to extend the rules for another 10 years, but also to remove existing barriers and discriminatory practices. we managed to further lower wholesale prices, introduced guarantee of quality of service, improve transparency and secure free access to emergency services. all of this hasn’t been the case until now. europeans benefiting from free movement cannot be punished with lower quality or higher charges, no matter where they come from or how long they stay in another member state. facing the war in ukraine, i am happy that i insisted on inclusion of the free roaming provisions also in the international agreements to be concluded in the future. in this context, i think that the lower charges for mobile-phone use in europe should be very helpful to all the refugees coming from ukraine.
madam president, one of the effects of russian aggression is related to the environment. after this experience with russia, the world's military spending will be higher than ever. we know from studies that higher spending on armaments is associated with higher greenhouse gas emissions. at the same time, we are in a situation where the developed world has a high public debt. the starting point for this mix must be a modification of the green deal. it must be more effective, it must be truthfully communicated to the public. some measures need to be changed. for example, nuclear power is indispensable, we have to import liquefied gas, generate electricity from coal. unfortunately, we can't stop as fast as we thought.
madam president, despite the fact that ukrainians and citizens of other countries are fleeing from putin's tanks and missiles, not everyone is given the same help to escape to safety. i have long said that racism is on the rise in europe, and the information i have received from ukraine, poland, hungary, slovakia, the czech republic and moldova sadly confirms this. i am concerned about reports of unequal access to aid for roma refugees. the suffering of roma women and children fleeing from fear of putin's tanks is compounded by unequal access not only in ukraine, but also, to my knowledge, after joining the european union. after the war in ukraine, all ukrainians suffered equally, as did members of minorities, including roma. the roma in ukraine are refugees like all ukrainians. all the people of ukraine have been taken away by putin, their safety, their homes, and sadly, the lives of their loved ones. dear friends, the life of every man who flees from war is worth the same.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, mr minister, honourable members, thank you for your fruitful exchange and for your comments and remarks. i want to assure you that the commission will continue engaging with the european parliament as this work is going forward. based on your questions and remarks, i understand you share the commission’s concerns that our efforts need to focus on the three main issues: ensuring affordable energy prices for european consumers; security of supply – meaning that we are fully prepared for the next winter season regardless of what happens; and diminishing and eventually completely removing our dependence on russian fossil fuels. these three aims mutually reinforce each other. in versailles, leaders supported the proposals in our communication of 8 march, and asked the commission to propose a repowereu plan to phase out russian fossil fuels by 2027, backed by the necessary national and european resources. this is what we are now working full-speed on, to make it happen. i also would like to thank all the members who today expressed their support for the commission’s work. our plans are very ambitious, as is required by the current situation. but it also means that we need your support to quickly adopt all legislative proposals, starting with the gas—storage proposal adopted this week. we also count on your support on accelerating the work on the december package, which includes important provisions on security of supply. and finally, a crucial part of decreasing our dependency on russian gas is diminishing our consumption of gas altogether. therefore, we hope to also move very fast on all the legislative proposals under the ‘fit for 55’ package and we count on your support. this is part of the solution to make the eu resilient to shocks and less dependent on russian fossil fuels. we need to be united while facing these challenging times and if there is one thing the crisis is showing us it is that the eu is more united than ever in responding to putin and supporting the ukrainian people.
president of the council. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add a few comments to what the european commission has just said, which i very much agree with. we said it, as did the european commission, in the introduction to this debate, and this has been widely relayed in the trade: there are indeed two types of crises that are cumulating today and that result in a very significant increase in energy prices. first, a price increase that was already in place and which is mainly the consequence of the covid-19 crisis and the accelerated economic recovery, which was basically good news, but which had resulted in this very significant increase in gas, electricity and fuel prices. in addition, the war we are now experiencing has revealed a structural dependence on russian gas in particular, which in the present context is becoming unbearable and is doubling from one member state to another, with a very high degree of heterogeneity in relation to this dependence. it is in this context that we must act, stronger and faster, with several types of responses, which have been discussed and which i will only briefly summarize to report on the debates taking place in the council, and which will also take place in the european council tonight and tomorrow. first, the imperative need to strengthen our european regulatory and coordination tools. this is one of the debates that will take place in the european council today, on the basis of the recent proposals of the european commission, with the question of common storage to deal with supply risks - i believe this is probably the most consensual point today between the member states - the question of possible joint purchases - which i believe still needs to be explored and is a good track, in our opinion - and the question, debated between member states, of tools to cap final prices to consumers in difficult crisis periods - i believe we should not exclude this either, even if, as i have said in a transparent way, this subject is still the subject of complex discussions between member states. in any case, in this debate we must not only uphold the acquis of the internal market, and certainly strengthen our energy interconnections - which is imperative in the light of the tensions today - but also better protect our consumers, with regulatory tools that must be reconstructed or devised. the second type of response, which is intended as a reaction to the structural problem of dependence i mentioned, is, in essence, that of energy sovereignty. we see the need for this even more clearly - and i repeat, this was also mentioned in the debate - since the european project has been based precisely on energy sovereignty from the outset. today we need to set common climate targets at european level - this has been a given for just over two years now - for 2030 and 2050, and together we need to accelerate our transition. this is the subject of the legislative package on adjustment to objective 55 which we are seeking to push forward in the council under the french presidency, with the aim of developing green, affordable, stable and sovereign energy sources, with national choices which may differ, but which in our view must include both renewable energy and nuclear energy, both of which meet these criteria. this is also a diversification objective in terms of sovereignty, as envisaged and proposed in the european commission's repowereu plan. because we obviously need to accelerate this reduction in dependence on russian gas as soon as possible, the commission is proposing ambitious objectives, which we support, but which still need to be decided and discussed in the council. here too, coordination is useful, so that we are not competing with each other for new supply solutions. it is also - as the vice-president and many other speakers have just said - the reduction of our energy consumption whenever we can, because european dependence is also a fact of energy consumption which we must control better. with these tools for accelerating, diversifying and reducing consumption, i believe we have in our hands the tools for european energy independence, which, as you know, france has been defending for a long time, and which this council presidency has put on its agenda, but which, because of the tragic events we are experiencing - the russian invasion of ukraine - requires us to act even faster. thank you for your commitment.
the debate is over. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. the eu is working tirelessly to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply. we in the socialist group in the european parliament believe that solutions are needed to deal with the rise in energy prices, particularly electricity prices. cohesive and coordinated action is absolutely necessary to help the economy of citizens and businesses. the solutions are to accelerate the deployment of indigenous renewable energy and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity, while eliminating our excessive energy dependence on russia. in this respect, spain can play a very important role in diversification, as it has a large lng (liquified natural gas) infrastructure, including around 30% of the union's regasification capacity.
in writing. energy isolation from russia is a necessity for our future and a moral obligation towards ukraine. three weeks ago, the last notions that russia was a rational partner, at least within certain limits, playing the role of international agreements, were also dispelled. the solution is not only to diversify the suppliers of the current energy mix, but also to change the overall mix, and in particular to innovate to increase energy efficiency. we cannot be as dependent on one supplier as we are in the case of russia. each country has and will have its own energy mix, but the fundamental goal of our independence from russian raw materials is shared. cooperation in the energy sector is essential, particularly in the field of energy storage and joint energy purchasing.
in writing. once again, the european union has set itself objectives without really asking itself whether they are feasible or what the consequences might be: the commission is demanding energy independence in the shortest possible time to tackle a problem which has been known for a long time but which has been ignored until now. the elimination of two thirds of russian gas imports is undoubtedly a geopolitically and strategically extremely important choice, but we must not be under the illusion that it is risk free. further increases in energy costs or energy rationing would have a devastating impact on our economy, already weakened by the years of the pandemic. i would also like to stress the criticisms of the commission's intention to replace russian gas with imported lng. most of the world's producers already have long-term contracts with other buyers, which makes it difficult to negotiate new agreements. secondly, the eu's regasification capacity is already at its maximum and the construction of new plants takes a long time, which is incompatible with the commission's objectives. i would like to conclude by reiterating that the greatest risk is that citizens and businesses will pay for the consequences of years of wrong energy policies, characterized by compromises and green mania.
in writing. following the breakthrough of the european union's coordinated and solidarity-based response to the pandemic, the response to the impacts of actions to support ukraine and the guarantee of access to sustainable, affordable and secure energy for european consumers must be achieved also by following a coordinated, fair and solidarity-based course of action. the commission communication repowereu opens up lines of action for emergency support to households and businesses, for regulation and joint action in the market and for strategic restructuring of the energy market, in particular through increased focus on renewable energy and interconnections. i welcome the measures taken by the council to respond immediately to the crisis, in particular the joint purchase of gas, lng and hydrogen on the market and the exceptional authorisation of support for the most vulnerable companies. i call for the proposal by some member states, including portugal, to fix a maximum price for gas with an impact on the mechanisms for price formation, in particular electricity, and for an exceptional vat reduction to be discussed and adopted. finally, i would stress the need for an exceptional mechanism for approving and financing the new interconnections needed to ensure the diversity of supply and the fluidity of the internal market.
the next item is the debate on the following items: oral question to the council on the state of play of the modernisation of the energy charter treaty [2022/2510 (rsp) ], by bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000009/2022 b9-0009/22), and oral question to the commission on the state of play of the modernisation of the energy charter treaty [2022/2510 (rsp) ], by bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000008/2022 b9-0008/22).
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, as i mentioned in my introductory remarks, by mid-june the commission will take stock of the negotiations and will draw its conclusions. to come back more specifically on some of the questions which have been raised, first on transparency. the commission is strongly committed to ensuring trade policy is transparent and inclusive, in order to improve legitimacy and public trust. in this context, the commission has published an initial proposal for the modernisation of the energy charter treaty. the energy charter treaty has agreed to published after each round a common public communication. the communication after the first round presented the agenda and issues discussed. after the second round, on the instigation of the eu and some other contracting parties, the contracting parties helped publish the second document, which reflects the discussions of the second round even better, despite the initial wish of several contracting parties not to reveal this information. the eu will continue to urge other contracting parties to improve the transparency of the ect modernisation process. however, at the current stage, given the confidentiality of negotiations, as the contracting parties have decided, the commission is not in a position to share all negotiating documents. nevertheless, the commission is sharing its own proposals, as i said, the initial proposal and the proposal for fossil fuel are covered, and we are informing parliament regularly on the negotiations. the second specific question which was raised concerns a sunset clause and what would be the options to reduce or neutralise the sunset clause? indeed, theoretically speaking, there is a possibility that the contracting parties could enter into an inter se agreement to neutralise the sunset clause. well, as regards this question, we have always been of the view that the ect should not apply between the eu member states in the first place and this has now been confirmed by several european court of justice judgments. thus, an inter se agreement may indeed be needed but would bring little additional benefit. secondly there are probably very few contracting parties at this stage that are willing to enter into such an agreement with the eu and its member states because they have nothing to gain unless they want to withdraw themselves. but again, there is no contracting party that is now hinting at that. so the commission remains of the opinion that the best outcome is to have a reformed energy charter treaty in line with the eu’s sustainable development and climate action objectives, rather than having an unreformed energy charter treaty applying to the eu and member states during the 20 years sunset period triggered by unilateral withdrawal. beyond the eu, a reformed energy charter treaty will leverage a larger collective, positive impact by all contracting parties. this is very important considering that sustainable development and climate action are global challenges that the eu cannot tackle alone. but as i said also in my introductory remarks, if we cannot achieve these objectives, we will consider other options, including withdrawal from the energy charter treaty. and of course, we will look in this case at all possible ways to mitigate the impact of an unreformed ect and 20 years of a sunset clause.
president of the council. mr president, mr vice-president, i have little to add to the comments just made by mr dombrovskis. i simply want to say that we must give ourselves a useful chance for the two rounds of negotiations which are still ahead of us and which i have mentioned, on the second half of april and in may. it is then, in just a few weeks' time, that we will be able to make a real assessment of this modernisation process. can it or cannot it lead satisfactorily to the removal of investment protection for fossil fuels? i repeat, this will be our position with the other member states: if this is not possible in the next few weeks, we will have to consider alternative options. it is preferable to have a modernised charter that covers other countries and could apply its requirements adapted to the paris agreement, the ecological transition and the end of fossil fuels. if this is not possible, we should consider the coordinated withdrawal of the countries of the european union. coordination of a possible withdrawal is also more desirable than a process that would be limited to a few member states and disorganised, because we would obviously have more impact and the opportunity to think about other tools. this is the position i took for the first time on behalf of the french government a few months ago, with barbara pompili in particular. we will defend it in the light of the results, the negotiations and the cycles that come in april and may.
the debate is over. (the debate was closed at 10.50 a.m.)
the minutes of the sitting shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of its next sitting. if the objections to the resolution adopted at today's meeting are not accepted, they will be forwarded immediately to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 24 march 2022.
good afternoon. thank you very much, dear colleagues. i wanted to quickly update you on my visit to ukraine, to the verkhovna rada and our meeting with president zelenskyy. it was a difficult decision to go, but it meant a great deal to those fighting in ukraine that the european parliament was present with them. i was proud to take our message to kyiv and to show that our parliament stands with them in these dark times. the atrocities committed by the russian army in ukraine are horrific, they are disgraceful and they are shameful. the reality is that the images from bucha and irpin are the same as reports from other cities in ukraine. they underline the level of threat facing ukraine and the global rules—based world order. in kyiv i was clear: these are war crimes that are perpetrated by war criminals, and these coordinated acts of inhumanity cannot remain unanswered and that we will hold all those responsible to account. dear colleagues, ukraine is fighting for our values in the most impossible conditions and we have to support them. and concretely, that means that we need an immediate adoption of a new package of forceful sanctions. we need to target those who bankroll and support putin, and close any still existing loopholes. putin’s oligarchs, and frankly all his political party members, must find nowhere to turn to. secondly, we need to step up our strategy of making this illegal invasion the costliest mistake that the kremlin has ever made. the hit to russia’s economy must be proportionate to the unprecedented atrocities that we are seeing. our businesses must look elsewhere for growth and we will support them. crucially, europe must speed up a policy of zero dependence from the kremlin, disentangle europe from russian energy supplies, implement binding embargoes and stop indirectly funding these bombs. finally, and here is my appeal to all of you in all your talks, all your statements, all your calls for governments and our international partners to act. we must offer more support to ukraine, and that means logistical help, more humanitarian aid and more military equipment that they desperately, desperately need. they are fighting for us and they are looking to us for help. we should not ignore them. and in this regard, i would like you to join me for a minute of silence in memory of the victims of bucha, the victims of irpin and all the victims of war, terror and violence. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
madam president, please allow me to speak on behalf of my group, but i hope also on behalf of all the colleagues here, in this house, to express that we are very thankful for your trip to ukraine, to kyiv. it was a big message of solidarity to the ukrainian friends. it was a big message of strengthening democracy, rule of law. and you did this as the first president of an european institution, so you made the european parliament colleagues proud about this. thank you so much for this courageous trip.
madam president, also on behalf of the socialist and democratic group i would like to join in that message of thanks for your presence in kiev this weekend. all of us who have been able to see the images during these days of the atrocities that are taking place in ukraine, the images of bucha, what the putin regime is doing, have obviously become more aware than ever of the importance of defending freedom, defending democracy and everything that this institution, the european parliament, represents. thank you very much for being there, because your presence there is also a sign of the commitment of this whole house to freedoms.
thank you very much, ms garcía pérez. as i said, the session is re—opened. i would also like to share with you a few comments on the 65th anniversary of the treaty of rome. i thought it was timely that today we recall that 65 years ago, on 25 march 1957, we witnessed the birth of our european peace project. with the ashes of the great wars still smouldering, six countries came together with one pledge: that never again would our continent allow such scenes of senseless death and destruction. with the signatures on the treaty of rome, our ancestors established the foundations of a peaceful and prosperous union. a union which stands for human dignity, for freedom, for democracy. a union in which countries would reconcile their differences and see the merits of integration and cooperation for the greater good. a union that would never allow war to be the answer. as we mark the anniversary of this declaration of unity in rome, let us remember the reasons behind our european peace project and continue more resolutely than ever before to uphold our european values. these are difficult times, but faith in our union’s strength is enough to withstand them.
moving on to the order of the day, the minutes and the texts adopted of the sittings of 23 and 24 march 2022 are available. are there any comments? (the minutes of the previous sittings were approved)
by way of information, ms tatjana ždanoka has left the greens group and sits now with the non—attached members since 1 april.
in relation to the decisions by the juri, empl, femm and econ committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) announced at the opening of the sitting on wednesday, 23 march 2022, i have received requests for a vote in parliament pursuant to rule 71(2) from the epp group and other members reaching at least the medium threshold on the joint decision of the empl and femm committees to enter into negotiations on the proposal for a directive to strengthen the application of the principle of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value between men and women. the vote will be held on tuesday, 5 april 2022. concerning the other decisions to enter into negotiations, i have received no request for a vote in parliament by members or a political group or groups reaching at least a medium threshold. therefore, the committees may start the negotiations on the basis of these reports.
the econ and libe committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules. the report, which constitutes the mandate for the negotiations, is available on the plenary web page and its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least a medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday, 5 april 2022 at midnight, that the decision to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament on the decision to enter into negotiations is made within the deadline, the committees may start negotiations.
i would also like to inform you that, together with the president of the council, i shall on wednesday, 6 april 2022 sign seven acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of our rules of procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of the sittings.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents on 31 march 2022 pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. i would like to inform you that i have received four requests for urgent procedure from envi, regi and itre committees pursuant to rule 163 on the following legislative files. first, medicinal products for human use made available in the united kingdom in respect of northern ireland as well as in cyprus, ireland and malta. investigational medicinal products made available in the united kingdom with respect to northern ireland as well as in cyprus, ireland and malta. increased pre—financing from react—eu and gas storage. the vote on these four requests will be taken on tuesday, 5 april 2022. if the vote on the urgent procedure of increased pre—financing from react—eu is carried, then a debate with one round of political group speakers will be added on thursday as the first item. next, with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposal for change to the final draft agenda. on wednesday, the objection pursuant to rule 112(2) on genetically modified soybean mon 87769 and mon 89788 is added directly to the votes. if there are no objections, this change is approved. therefore the agenda is adopted and the order of business is thus established.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, let me start by saying that at the end of last week, when i saw president metsola sitting across the desk from president zelenskyy, i felt personally represented. not just because i ran in the last european elections as lead candidate of the socialists and democrats, and got elected to this parliament. not just because i also represent a european institution, but because i’m one of 440 million european citizens who she represented at that moment. and i felt represented, and i believe in that sense she has done a great service to this parliament, to our citizens. and i would like to echo the call she just made that we should pass from words to actions now. that we should quickly move to tighten the sanctions, do everything materially, morally, politically, economically to support a nation that is fighting for its very survival. in the last days, we’ve seen the level of atrocity committed by putin’s troops. we’ve seen the declarations again today in moscow, even foreshadowing the chance, the possibility of genocide. there is no bigger task of us than to support the ukrainians in this struggle, which is also our struggle. this peaceful nation has been invaded. but it’s not just an attack on them, it’s an attack on all of us, our values, our way of life, our security, and also on the momentous task we face. the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report that was presented today, again demonstrates how big the challenges humanity’s facing. ipcc, based on science, again points to the fact that we need to do more if we want to achieve the goal of keeping the rise of the temperature well below 2 degrees and hopefully on 1.5 degrees. we we’re not there by a long stretch. that’s the bad news. the good news is, however, that if we change our policies, if we up the ante, if we do more, we can reverse the trend. that’s also what the ipcc report says that was just published. so i believe that this parliament, this commission and the council are under a political and moral responsibility to act as fast as we can. on fit for 55, on the green deal, on farm to fork, and all the projects we have put on the table to get where we need to be. and this is because even with everything we’ve put on the table, one cannot exclude, if you read the ipcc report, that we might be called to do even more in the months and years to come. and we should be clear on this message. and the war in ukraine has only increased our sense of urgency because now nobody can find an excuse, in my view, to not speed up the end of the overuse of fossil fuels, to not speed up europe’s stronger reliance on its own energy production, which has to be solar, wind, biogas, geothermal, if we have it. but we cannot continue to import massive amounts of fossil fuels for political reasons. we cannot be in a position to be blackmailed, but especially also because that’s the only way we can fulfil the pledges we’ve made in fit for 55. that’s the only way we’ll get to a reduction of at least 55% by 2030 of our emissions. and this is the only way we have a shot at climate neutrality in 2050. now, the other reason why i believe we should stick to our plans and perhaps even revisit them, is that the only way we can convince others in the world to do more, who need to do much more than we do, that’s also crystal clear in the ipcc report, is if we show the way how it can be done. and please, i plead with all of you to help me counter those who say, ‘as long as others don’t do more, we shouldn’t be doing more’. it is clear that we’re the only continent with a comprehensive plan to get us where we need to be. and only through comprehensive plans can other countries, other continents get where they need to be. and by leading the way, europe can help them get there. by leading the way, we can do what the positive, what the optimistic part of the ipcc report says, namely, change the trend and give humanity a shot at survival.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are now formally discussing the second part of the ipcc report. so from my point of view, a little bit about climate adaptation: i think it's extremely important that we support our foresters to reforest climate-friendly forests, that we maintain and support sustainable forestry in europe. and that, in my view, is a central idea, a central point in adaptation to climate change. but at 5 p.m., the third part was released, so of course i'm going to focus on the third part as well. it is clear that we must act quickly to halt at least part of the climate change and at the same time become more independent of energy imports from russia. and i can inform you that just half an hour ago the epp decided that we should advocate an embargo on coal, oil and nuclear fuels because we are too dependent on russia in that too. and it also makes clear that these technologies may play a bigger role in the short term -- if they don't come from russia -- but that it's certainly not the solution. the solution is renewable energy and energy efficiency. and we have to be more involved now because of russia, but also because of climate protection. we must take other parts of the world more seriously on this path, not to diminish our own ambitions. but if we get our 55 percent and the americans get their target, then the americans still have more than twice the per capita emissions. and we need to talk about that, too. and we need to -- this is what the ipcc says over and over again -- have a carbon price with social compensation in all parts of the economy and really focus more on the negative emissions now. we can't waste any time here. the commission has announced something for next year. we have to move very, very quickly here.
for the renew group. - madam president! thank you for speaking, and thank you to the 270 scientists behind this report. it's no news that we're busy fighting the climate crisis. the shocking thing about the un's sixth climate report is how many people are already affected by climate change. millions of people are being displaced by extreme weather, about half the world's population is experiencing water scarcity, species are going extinct, and it's all happening right now, and it's happening right here, right around us. so, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of negotiations on the eu's climate policy. the negotiations are already starting from too low a starting point. but let us remember this report. we need to stop choosing half-green solutions that may look good right now, and are the easiest and helpful in the short term, but that are actually going to delay the end goal and the right solutions. that is a mistake we must not make. we can still do a lot for the climate and for future generations. but we must not try to solve our problems in a way that ends up creating new climate problems in the future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we are discussing here now the working group iii contribution to the sixth intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) assessment report. and let’s be honest, their messages have been the same now for quite some years. yes, the climate is changing. yes, it’s because of human beings. the impacts are severe, and it makes sense to stay below 1.5 °c instead of below 2 °c. and the solutions are there. and that’s what working group iii is showing time and time and again. but if we then look on where we are, despite all the rhetoric, also this report is very clear: we are on track in overshooting the 1.5°c. and if you then see on measures, they make it very clear: leaving fossil fuels in the ground is one of the most important measures we have to take. and they make it very clear, no expansion of coal or oil and gas should be done. and that’s not what we’re doing. and this is really a call to the council. now, from a climate perspective, but also geopolitically, it’s more clear than ever that we should stop our expansion on fossils. but for the time being, we are expanding as a reaction to the war in ukraine, because we are expanding liquefied natural gas (lng), and until now we are refusing to debate an import ban on fossils from russia. so we are increasing our fossil dependency as we speak, and that really has to stop for many reasons. the last point is to the commission. you really said, like, we ‘may have to’ consider an increase of our targets, but you have to. i am not talking about the reduction target. i’m talking about renewables and energy efficiency. here we really, if we want to accelerate and shorten the transition, then we need to step up on renewables and efficiency. please, commission, come forward in may with proposals for that.
madam president, allow me to focus today in the framework of the ipcc on a really huge issue, which is the lack of water, and allow me to provide some figures. in europe, about 30% of our population is affected by water stress, which is a situation where there is insufficient water of sufficient quality to meet the demands of people and the environment during an average year. as the climate crisis is deepening, the situation is expected to worsen. the trends are especially worrying for southern and the south-western europe, where river discharge during summer could decline by up to 40% under a 3℃ temperature rise scenario. improved water efficiency and policies to reduce demand can reduce risks to water security. at member state level, local authorities in collaboration with communities can take actions that include updating building codes, land use plans, improving soil management and finally, enhancing water-use efficiency. protection and restoration of our natural and semi-natural ecosystems are key adaptation measures. moreover, water is a crucial input for hydroelectric and thermoelectric energy production. with 1 300 gw installed capacity in 2019, hydropower became the world’s largest single renewable energy source. therefore, minimising the risk to water security from the climate crisis will require a full systems use that considers the direct impacts of mitigation measures on water resources and their indirect effect to our efforts to tackling climate change.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. my dear frenchman! the third part of the sixth assessment report makes one thing very clear: the climate crisis is not waiting for us to act, it will continue if we do not act. i would like to begin by thanking all the scientists around the world who are increasing our knowledge of climate change with these reports each time, and who are not being diverted from their course by scientific deniers and critical governments who deny climate change. with the third progress report, we now have everything we need to take decisive action on the climate crisis. we know from the first part of the report that we cannot live with 1.5 degrees of warming permanently. the second part of the report tells us that if we do not do this, three billion people will lose their livelihoods. and from the third report we now know what we have to do in concrete terms. what we need to do is move away from fossil fuels and towards renewables. the cost of renewables has fallen by 85% since 2010. our carbon budget is gone in ten years. we must act now! not a single country is meeting its climate goals. the national climate plans that have been submitted are putting us at 3.2 degrees. that's miles away from the 1.5 degree target! that is why we must do much more in the european union. we must protect our forests and we must - and i am coming to the end of this - above all ensure that we do not grow more energy crops and food on the scarce land.
madam president, it's in black and white. over and over and over. the extreme weather we are experiencing in slovakia and across europe is caused by climate change. man-made climate change. the floods we face in slovakia, but also in western europe, the heat that kills people, the drought that destroys our crops and our forests and drains our wells. the climate crisis is here, and we're heading for a climate catastrophe. we caused it. but many slovak politicians and business captains pretend that nothing is happening. they're talking about trading in hot air. do not expect to be paid for the damage you suffer from flooding. the solution is in our hands. reducing emissions is not just about green energy and ending waste. it's also about ending our dependence on putin's murderous regime and lowering our energy bills. but we also need to adapt our cities and towns to be green, adapt our agriculture, and give the forests back their life. the science is clear. it's up to us now, and we have to act.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr vázquez lázara, the committee on legal affairs, and all of those who contributed to this report. the commission notes with great satisfaction that the report aims to ensure that the best interests of the child are the primary consideration in judicial proceedings, regardless of whether they are civil, criminal or administrative, and regardless of the reason why a child comes in contact with the justice system. this highlights that the commission and the parliament share the same objectives that the rights of the child are protected. the eu has a very strong acquis on child—friendly justice. in the criminal law domain we have the 2016 procedural safeguards directive as regards children accused, or the victims’ rights directive, along with the legislation on child sexual abuse and trafficking in human beings. in the family law area, in the brussels iia regulation, its recast, and the maintenance regulations are contributing to the creation of child—friendly settings. these are complemented by several strategies, including the eu strategy on the rights of the child adopted in march last year, where child—friendly justice is one of the thematic areas. the strategy sets out concrete actions that the commission will implement by the end of its mandate to make justice more child friendly. the commission will notably contribute to the training of justice professionals on the rights of the child and child—friendly justice; strengthen the implementation of the 2010 guidelines on child—friendly justice with the council of europe; propose in 2022 a horizontal legislative initiative to support the mutual recognition of parenthood between member states. but let me come back to our existing family—law instruments to address and ensure a child—friendly justice. i would like to highlight, for example, the brussels iib regulation, which enters into application on 1 august. this regulation covers many of the important elements highlighted in your report, including new obligations for the member states to provide children who are capable of forming their own views with a genuine and effective opportunity to express their views, either directly or through a representative or an appropriate body. this obligation extends to all proceedings concerning parental responsibility. it will offer better protection for children and will facilitate cross-border procedures for families, which in turn reduces time and costs and increases efficiency. mediation is also encouraged in the new regulation. as from 1 august this year, courts deciding on parental child abduction will be called upon to invite the parties to consider engaging in mediation or other means of alternative dispute resolution unless it is contrary to the best interests of the child or it’s otherwise not appropriate. overall, these new rules reinforce the rights of children by ensuring that their perspectives are heard in the legal proceedings concerning them. we therefore welcome that the european parliament report calls for proper implementation of these rules. the commission will be intensifying its efforts to ensure that the new regulation is effectively applied by all member states. to ensure this, we have already started working on the update of the practice guide on the application of the brussels iib regulation. it should be available before the regulation starts to apply. as to the new legislative initiative on parenthood, the proposal will aim to ensure that parenthood established in one member state is recognised in the other member states so that the legal links between children and their parents are not compromised when the family moves to another member state or returns to its member state of origin. this will further protect the rights of children such as their right to an identity, the right to be raised by and to maintain a relationship with both of their parents, the right to a family life and other rights derived from parenthood, such as the right to maintenance or succession rights. we are grateful for the parliament’s support for this, including its parliamentary resolution on this matter in september last year. the parliament’s earlier resolution on the cross-border aspects of adoption will also be taken into account in the preparation of this legislation. as regards the acceptance of accessions to the 1980 hague convention on child abduction, i would like to recall that in the period of 2015-2021, 20 council decisions have been adopted concerning no less than 27 third countries, and three commission proposals are currently still pending at the council. the assessment of the level of implementation by third countries is a common endeavour of the commission and member states. the problems regarding the enforcement of return and decisions and visiting rights in japan is a matter of great concern for the commission, which worked closely with the eeas and the eu delegation in japan to establish a continuous dialogue with japan on these matters, notwithstanding the difficulties linked to different social and legal concepts. finally, besides the measures taken at the eu level, we also note that this report calls on member states to implement several actions in order to better protect the rights of the child in civil, administrative and family law proceedings. many of these are in line with the recommendations to member states outlined in the eu strategy on the rights of the child, such as support to judicial training providers. we have also recommended member states to develop robust alternatives to judicial action, including alternatives to detention, the use of restorative justice and mediation in the context of civil justice, and to enhance cooperation in cases with cross-border implications to ensure full respect of the rights of the child. as you can see, there is strong and significant eu action in the area of the protection of the rights of the child, with a wide range of legislative and policy instruments. i would like to once again thank the parliament for this report and its support.
the debate on this point is closed. the vote on it will take place tomorrow.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches pursuant to rule 172 of the rules of procedure. and i'm hereby informing you that you're performing these performances from your chair.
mr. president, a few days ago, slovakia was shaken by a video in which one of the senior representatives of the russian embassy in slovakia directly bribed allied journalists who had long been spreading russian propaganda. this incriminating video confirmed that russian agents have managed to infiltrate, or control, some of the media in europe. yes, it is true that europeans are indebted to russia for fighting evil in world war ii. but in a nutshell, europe has had bad experiences with russia. as it was in '68, when the russians didn't like the world view of alexander dubcek and invaded czechoslovakia with a huge number of tanks and missiles ready to kill. just as ready to kill, they invaded ukraine this time. now they have. they kill not only soldiers but also innocent civilians, even from behind. dear friends, we all want to see russia on the right side, as it was in the second world war. unfortunately, today, the bombing of houses, apartments, schools, hospitals and, unfortunately, the killing of innocent children and civilians, are the legacy of putin's army. putin knows why he's sending his agents to europe. their goal is to use lies and propaganda to mask his bloody aggression.
mr. president, the heinous acts of the aggressor in ukraine call for the establishment of a special international criminal court. this court must punish the atrocities that took place in buchi, irpin, mariupol and other cities of ukraine. but they also have to punish, of course, the indecencies that have been committed at the expense of the representatives of the local authorities. i want to talk about them today. it is clear that the mayors and mayors have been the target of systematic kidnappings. they are more than a dozen representatives of the territorial self-government from the regions of kiev, kherson, kharkiv, zaporozhye and donetsk, who were abducted by russian soldiers. why are the russians taking them? no doubt because they want to break the resistance of the local population and also, of course, to displace the local authorities. unfortunately, the fate of the mayors is a matter of speculation. unfortunately, there are cases of tragedy, such as the murder of the mayor of motyzyna, olga suchenko, who was murdered by the russian occupiers along with her son and husband. what a horror! ladies and gentlemen, the heinous acts of the aggressor in ukraine call for the establishment of an international criminal tribunal. and no crime can go unpunished.
mr president, after horrifying images from mariupol, bucha, irpin and other areas, we see more and more crimes committed every day. bombing of civilian areas, killing of innocent people, rape, torture, looting, forced deportation of people to russia. this is the true nature of putin’s special operation, not a liberation, as kremlin propaganda lies day after day, but a scene of brutal war crimes. a real hell on earth. the crimes committed by the russian soldiers and security servicemen must be fully documented. and those responsible, from the highest ranks to the lowest, must be held responsible and brought to justice. that is why i welcome the announcement of the european commission supporting a joint investigation mission to ukraine to document these unspeakable crimes. to remain silent and not stand up to the evil means supporting utter moral bankruptcy.
this item is closed.
the negotiations are hereby concluded and will continue tomorrow, that is to say on tuesday 5 april 2022 at 9.00 a.m., with a priority debate on the council and commission statements: eu protection for children and young people fleeing the war in ukraine [2022/2618 ((rsp)) ]. the agenda will be published and made available on the european parliament's website.
mr. president, how would you feel if your children were suddenly cut off from school for an entire month? what would this blockage have to do with their training? this is what is happening to millions of children fleeing the horror of the war in ukraine. our duty is to go beyond words. we need concrete actions to help those who have lost everything. and one of the fundamental issues for child development is education. every day that a child goes without going to school, without relating to his peers, to his teachers, without learning, is a day lost in his future. it is a lost day for the future of europe. the european union must ensure that refugee children can enjoy their right to education here. more teachers, materials in ukrainian language, more infrastructure, ensure that the schools can take care of them with dignity. and for that we need infrastructure, investment, staff, european funds. and we must also focus on the recognition of qualifications. when people, many young ukrainian students, who are already in the universities of the european union, flee from the bombs, they don't think about taking their degree or their qualifications with them. they come to colleges, and our colleges have trouble recognizing their degrees. they need a support plan to facilitate reconnaissance procedures. what is the european commission's plan to support our universities within the territory of the european union? let the war not take away from us and let it not take away from ukrainians the right to a decent education, to their future opportunities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the situation is very serious. 1.8 million children left ukraine. 2.5 million children were displaced inside ukraine. in total, we're talking about 60 percent of the children in ukraine. we talk about destinies, we talk about people, we talk about young people, we talk about children who need our support and we cannot ignore this situation. it's not enough to just talk about access to education, access to health. we have to act. we need to act in a unified, common way, providing a minimum package of services that these children have access to. that's why we need resources. we need common action at european level and we cannot leave the burden of this effort on the shoulders of the member states alone. many of the member states, including romania, which i represent here in the european parliament, have made efforts to do this, but we need to go further. we need to be able to join forces and that is why we, at the level of the european budget, have asked the european parliament to make common resources available to meet these challenges and to be able to provide integrated support for these children. as i said earlier, whether it is access to education, whether it is psychological support, whether it is housing, there are many things that need to be done not only immediately, but also in the medium and long term. in this respect, i would like to welcome the efforts of the commissioner who has raised this issue at member state level and i would like member states, especially those who contribute more to the european budget, to continue to make efforts in this regard. we see that the council is not present today for this important debate and that is why it might be appropriate to move on. i was at the border, as were many of my colleagues, and i made efforts to support the children. we must act together because children's rights are human rights.
member of the commission. – mr president, what makes us human? i think it’s the ability to imagine, to realise the reality of another human being. to feel her fear. to feel her suffering. to feel her hope, her love. i would like to thank you all for this very good debate. i would like to thank you for your engagement and solidarity, as well as your readiness to act. ukrainian parents want us – count on us – to protect their children while they are out fighting for their country, for our shared european values, and i know that i can count on you in the european parliament in this effort. many of you have mentioned education. just to answer some of the questions, through the cohesion funds, we help integration into kindergartens, into schools, including language courses. we are also ready from the commission side to publish school books in ukrainian and to support technology providers to develop digital educational content. already today, this morning, more than 160 ukrainian refugee children went to school in an eu member state, and this, of course, we need to step up. two weeks ago, the ukrainian minister of internal affairs, denys monastyrsky, spoke to the extraordinary jha council of ministers of the interior. he told us about the terrible numbers of reports of children witnessing their fathers being killed, their mothers being raped, again and again and again. many of you have spoken about these terrible war crimes. i want to tell you that the eu has set up a joint investigation team with ukraine to collect evidence and investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity. the eu stands ready to send investigation teams on the ground to support the ukrainian prosecution services and, as i mentioned earlier, both eurojust and europol stand ready to assist. as i also told you at the beginning, the protection of and support to the refugee children are the top priority of my 10—point plan that is going to guide the commission’s work in the coming weeks. again, thank you very much for this very good debate. thank you for your engagement and thank you for your readiness to act. this is what we need now to protect children in war.
the debate is closed. the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions on this item expired at 10.00 a.m. today. the vote will take place on thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. dear prime minister, commission president, colleagues, it is now almost six weeks since the war in ukraine began and every day the whole world is witnessing the horrors of this war. everyone suffers in this war, but the worst situation is with the children of ukrainians who are dispersed by the war. it is appalling to hear that europe, which should have been a safe haven, has become a place of violence and exploitation for more than two thousand children. unaccompanied minors, orphans and minors are at high risk of abuse and exploitation, ranging from trafficking and smuggling to illegal adoption. over two million ukrainian children have come to the eu since the war began, and now here in europe is their home, and it is our duty to ensure that these homes are safe. i therefore urge the commission and the member states to act without delay and to establish an eu-wide system for the registration of children. all children fleeing war must be registered for the purpose. no child can disappear. national governments must develop legislation as soon as possible to allow for the urgent granting of custody to unaccompanied children. the need to ensure that refugee families and their children do not experience poverty and social exclusion is urgently needed to increase funding for the european child guarantee scheme and to allocate at least eur 20 billion of a dedicated budget to combat child poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. unacceptable any innocent life taken as a casualty of war, but especially unacceptable when it involves the lives of children. all war crimes must be rigorously and consistently investigated, and war crimes cannot go unpunished. almost exclusively women and children are fleeing the war in ukraine. more than 600,000 refugees have arrived in hungary so far. for those who want to stay, the goal is to integrate and catch up with the children as quickly as possible. so, in addition to compulsory schooling, the government provides students with five afternoons of private lessons a week, and they have the opportunity to take a final exam in our country. hungary is selflessly helping. i saw it myself on the hungarian-ukrainian border. in addition to providing accommodation, food, medical and hygiene equipment, a baby-mom corner for mothers with small children and a playground for children have been set up at the humanitarian transit point in an attempt to alleviate the traumatic experiences of these children and mothers. and to help the internally displaced in transcarpathia, we have provided a grant of huf 1 billion 350 million under the hungary helps program. the victory in the parliamentary elections guarantees that the government, through aid agencies, will continue to be committed to helping ukraine with the largest humanitarian aid in our history.
in writing. – the footage of all the horrible atrocities in bucha had all the hallmarks of a war crime. the european union needs to be prepared for the wave of propaganda that shall follow and obtain the objective truths and facts about what has been happening in ukraine during the war. there was a time before bucha and after bucha. the european union needs to reassess its whole relationship with the russian federation in all aspects – political, economic and military. europe’s defence and the protection of ukrainian refugees are of upmost value at the moment. vulnerable youth should be protected. children should be protected. while the international community has well-established institutions, mechanisms and processes in place to deal with such incidents, russia has the key to block them and obstruct our efforts to learn what really happened in bucha. the european council should form a special investigative committee into the situation in bucha and dispatch a fact-finding mission to collect evidence on the ground. if the european union wants to effectively counter russian aggression and prevent further escalation, we must not merely condemn, but also act firmly. the stakes could hardly be any greater.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has caused a huge refugee and humanitarian crisis, with 90% of the displaced being women, young people and children, many of them unaccompanied. the strengthening of the common european response and support to ukraine, which we are discussing today, must be geared to the protection of children and young people trying to escape the violence and horrors of war. let us not forget that unaccompanied children are at increased risk of violence, abuse, exploitation and disappearance, especially when they move across borders, where they are at serious risk of being trafficked. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances. our main priority must be family reunification and facilitating contact between children and young people and their relatives, wherever they are in europe. moreover, as in every refugee crisis, relocation is imperative not only to reduce the pressure on the first host countries but also to allow young children to continue to dream in favourable conditions, with all the help they need.
the next item is the report by mr zdzisław krasnodębski, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructure and repealing regulation (eu) no 347/2013 (com ((2020) 0824 c9-0417/2020 2020/0360 ((cod)) the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament. before we start, i want to remind you that the free seating applies with the exception of the first two rows, which are allocated to the group leaders. after inserting your ballot card, you will then be able to ask to speak by raising your hand and using the blue card via the voting machine. i would also like to remind you that speeches in the chamber will continue from the main podium, with the exception of the right to raise your hand or the blue card and procedural objections.
mr president, dear colleagues, ten-e is a key to connect our energy infrastructure within the eu. without robust investments into infrastructure and interconnections between member states it will not be effectively possible to decarbonise our economy and achieve our climate and energy goals, nor decrease our dependency and increase our autonomy. if europe wants to decrease or even cut off dependency on russian gas and strengthen its energy security, then cross-border energy infrastructure is crucial. as a reaction to war in ukraine, commission has to assess new infrastructure needs, which will be carried outside the scope of the ten-e regulation. in this context, i welcome the repowereu plan of the commission to urgently reduce eu demand for russian gas, including measures to respond to rising energy prices, replenish gas stocks for next winter, diversify gas supplies, and above all speed up the rollout of the renewables. we should not forget about the countries like mine, slovakia, that have worse conditions for renewables such as photovoltaic or wind energy. if we want to increase our autonomy, we need solidarity within the member states and infrastructure to distribute green energy and ensure no one is left behind.
madam president, europe's energy infrastructure, as the climate crisis and the terrible war in ukraine show, is no longer just about connectivity, but is the infrastructure that will enable us to meet our climate goals and guarantee our security. what's destabilizing our climate, what's threatening our security and ultimately threatening our future and our survival is fossil fuels, and this infrastructure needs to enable us to disconnect from fossil fuels. but what we're seeing is a huge package ready to build another gas infrastructure. connecting cyprus and malta to our gas infrastructure will not be a cheap or easy project and will take a long time to complete. i'm already afraid of the moment when it's finished and we see how useless it is, how useless and expensive the effort has been. please, this proposed framework has a built-in systemic flaw and i cannot and will not support it at this time.
mr. chairman, let's face it, we underestimated the education of our youth. it's not enough to teach math or physics. in addition to critical thinking, young people lack civic education. before entering politics, i worked with young people for more than ten years, and until recently i also spoke to students about extremism in person in hundreds of classes in slovakia. we've invested a tremendous amount of investment in digital skills. we talk a lot about ecology. but we forget that young people are threatened by misinformation, lies, and even by the nationalism and fascism that are on the rise today. on the one hand, digital technologies are enabling us to progress, on the other hand, social networks in particular are influencing us, even raising a generation of young people who cannot evaluate the veracity of sources, who cannot compete with the manipulation of fascists, nationalists or extremists. one of the few programmes that effectively combats the plague of disinformation is erasmus+. but it's not enough, not every young person is taking this european programme. europe cannot afford to let its young people be educated by propaganda. europe cannot afford to lose the generation of people who will one day lead europe or the member states of the european union. we can't lose young people who won't be raised in the truth, but in lies. we urgently need to put in place systematic measures that, in addition to physics, mathematics and chemistry, teach young people to recognize the truth and to resist lies, disinformation, populism and fascism.
madam president, the horrors we are seeing in ukraine today are the kind europe has not seen since world war ii. and what's worse is hearing from the far left and the far right about how we need to have fun, how we need to find common ground. the same common language we found with hitler in munich? is that what you want? ukraine needs our help, including military aid. they need guns now. when are we going to help ukraine more than we help russia with fossil fuel and nuclear fuel money? when will this money stay in our families and in our regions and finally get rid of the addiction, even the drug addiction, to fossil fuels? when are we going to stop tolerating a culture of lies on social media and innocently watching how algorithms, let's face it, give facebook more room for evil, give it more room for lies? all this just to get someone to pack. we're letting the system be disrupted from within. ladies and gentlemen, we must stand not only for the defence of our freedom and the defence of the freedom of ukraine, but we must also stand for the future of europe as such. it's time to stop talking, it's time to start acting.
madam president, i feel that for the european union, every citizen with a different opinion is now becoming an extremist. ten years ago, the word extremist didn't even exist in politics, and today, under the rule of intolerant liberals, everyone is being labeled an extremist. i remember a few years ago, when not me, but the serious western media called the ukrainian right sector and the azov battalion neo-nazi organizations. suddenly nobody is anything. no one can see anything. no one's bothered. i'm asking if this is the objectivity. why is there never any talk in this plenary about left-wing extremism, which is just as dangerous, even more dangerous, because many left-wing extremists are in power. on the one hand, they talk about personal freedoms, but they introduce mandatory vaccinations and covid passports, on the other hand, they talk about freedom of speech, but they introduce censorship. people are not blind, and they are not stupid, please, so they can see who the real extremist is, who is robbing them of their freedom, who is robbing them of their dignity. and one day, i think, in the election, they're going to count all of these people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with russia's invasion of ukraine we have all come together against putin's act of military aggression. yet, if we rewind the tape, we realize that this has not always been the case, that in these years we have not all been on the same side; the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the balkans, and it has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the balkans. in fact, he showed it right here in this very hall, in his fan club shirt, as a political and cultural example. the same people who, while accusing us of being subservient to the interests of brussels, went to moscow to establish links and raise funds, thus promoting a clear international political project, with putin as a reference point and sovereignty as an alternative to european construction. we are therefore pleased that everyone condemned the aggression against ukraine today, but that is not enough. there needs to be a real distancing from now on from that putin who has always had one goal: the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict, but must be able to take part in the process of peaceful settlement of the conflict. there's no room for all that now.
madam president, let's not cover our eyes anymore. vladimir putin is directing the dismantling of democracy in our countries directly from the kremlin, and it's no longer about circumstantial evidence or suspicious connections or fictitious-looking loans to far-right politicians. the spies that vladimir putin has installed around europe have long and systematically subverted european democracy. in my country, slovakia, the secret service only a few days ago uncovered and documented how diplomats from the russian embassy recruited, bribed and exploited a colonel in the slovak army or a pseudo-journalist from a conspiracy media. our naivete with putin has gone too far. we can no longer tolerate the russians under diplomatic cover conducting intelligence activities, corrupting our citizens, spreading disinformation and polarizing society. indeed, if we want to stop vladimir putin, we must not only expel his spies, but we must also realize how many people in our own countries have helped them subvert european democracy.
madam president, like many of us in this chamber, i also grew up behind the iron curtain. most of my youth i spent struggling against a political system – call it communist or socialist – that used more or less the same practices as putin practices in russia: terror, fear, lies, election fraud, corruption, instrumentalisation of the judiciary and the like. add to this constant anti—capitalist, anti—western europe propaganda and your picture is more or less complete. we ripped down the iron curtain, introduced the three-way partition of powers, free market, joined the eu, and i was confident that we had won once and forever. but hardly a few years passed and a right—wing government was elected, and just like my hungarian friends, also we must struggle again for a free media and for a free judiciary. we struggle again for equality in the elections, against political corruption and the like. add to this the propaganda which makes enemies of our western neighbours, including the european union, and your picture is more or less complete. it is really difficult to differentiate between left or right wing authoritarian regimes. so be careful!
madam president, friends of putin can be found in every single member state. let me start from marine le pen in france to matteo salvini in italy and nigel farage, the europhobic ukip party. and for what purpose? of course they both want to divide us and to destabilise european democracy. but putin’s unprovoked aggression against ukraine has had the unplanned consequence of putting europe’s populist superstars on the back foot. marine le pen is now destroying a million campaign leaflets featuring a photograph of her with putin. we who are working for a democratic, inclusive and peaceful europe should count this as a win. but we shouldn’t stop. it is high time to expose these extreme movements. it is high time to act. and, madam vice—president, thank you very much for your strong support to ukraine, to the brave people of ukraine, to president zelenskyy. as a representative of all the parties, i am proud that the verkhovna rada is part of our family, because we care about democratic values, we care about freedom, we care about a free society. slava ukraini!
madam president, madam commissioner, for years putin has systematically supported, financed and exploited all political movements that could weaken or divide europe and the west: some share his ideas - ultra-nationalism, homophobia - others simply believe they can take advantage of themselves and are used. we saw it with trump's victory in the united states, we've seen it with brexit and we continue to see it within our borders. i want to talk about the spanish case, where we have had for years funding by russian oligarchs of ultraconservative groups aligned with the extreme right, the extreme right of vox which, recently - i suppose paying bills - refused to take away a medal from the city council of madrid to putin. by the way, the madrid city council is elected today with votes from the extreme right. at the same time, catalan secessionism or at least a part of it cultivated contacts with the kremlin because it believed it could benefit it. this is a reality that the new york times exposed, not we say. that is a reality that must be recognized today in order to be able to fight it, because defending europe today is also defending it from the interference of war criminals who want to destroy its democracy.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, this has been a very important debate. i think that the vast majority of us felt very strongly that we need to say loudly ‘no’ to evil. and i think that many of us are also convinced that we have to do more to help ukraine because the debate was ongoing in the context of the atrocities we see on the territory of ukraine caused by russian aggressors. this was a debate about extremist parties, who are seen – and we have evidence to say that – as putin’s allies, who operate on european territory in our member states. some are doing it for political gains, some are doing it for money, and we, of course, have a very strong conviction, which is also the result of this debate, that we have to fight using our legal tools against the extremists in the eu. but i didn’t notice in the debate one question: why is it so easily possible? why is it so easy to seduce the europeans with toxic ideas, which are spread through russian propagandist campaigns and through disinformation to our information space? why is it so easy? why are we so lacking in resilience? where is the immunity we should have in a democratic system? i think that these are questions we should be asking as well and we should try to seek remedies and solutions, how to have more a resilient society. i read with great interest, two days ago, about finland and why the disinformation campaigning does not bear fruit there. i think that the answer is that there is an education system which is making people more knowledgeable and more resilient. so maybe that’s also something we should think about. this debate also shows that this is the right time for reflecting on whether we have not been too naive vis-à-vis putin’s russia and putin’s regime and putin himself. i believe we have been naive. we saw a lot of signs through the disinformation campaign spreading across europe since the annexation of crimea in 2014. we saw that putin’s regime was preparing the ground by a very well—targeted spread of disinformation against ukraine. there were some periods where we detected almost 40% of all the messages coming from the pro-kremlin media which were describing ukraine as the aggressor. it was preparing the ground and we did not fight against that. we didn’t do anything, or not too much. and this is also because we had a tendency to underestimate the potential of russian propaganda. so, in my view, we should have fought for ukraine much earlier than since 14 february this year. i am over time, i know. i will be finishing. so why is it so easy to seduce european people, and why is the russian propaganda successful? there are, i think, four reasons: frustration, fear, hate – they are always very close to each other – and ignorance. we have neglected something very important. everybody in the european union knows what dachau was. who knows about the kolyma gulag? the atrocities there were comparable to those which we see in the concentration camps in the european union. these were also europeans dying in these horrible conditions. so my message is that we have to join forces. everybody who can do something against this toxic messaging should do much more. the political forces, the media – that’s why we have to do more to have an independent and strong media, and also an economically strong media. we should also support culture and, as i said, education because it should not be that easy to convince the people that putin is right.
president of the council. madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this debate which is sadly timely. freedoms, fundamental rights, political and media pluralism, the rule of law, free, fair and transparent elections are the foundation of our european democracies and must therefore be vigorously protected from any hostile foreign interference. the risk of such interference, it has been said, in our political life, in our democratic life is unacceptable. it's become ubiquitous. this is all the more so in the geopolitical context we are experiencing, and furthermore with the approach of the european parliament elections in 2024, and of many national deadlines in our european union countries. i would like to pay particular tribute to the very important work of your special committee on foreign interference in the democratic processes of the european union, whose mandate you have recently renewed. foreign influence tactics can unfortunately include a growing list of tools of all kinds. you have also mentioned them, madam vice-president: secret or direct donations and loans to political parties, campaigns favouring certain favourable candidates, particular organisations and media, associations which are often the false nose of a foreign power. to this can be added highly organised techniques of capturing or coopting a political or economic elite. russia is currently particularly active in trying to influence our political decision-making, to interfere in the information space, in particular by spreading anti-european disinformation stories against facts, evidence or massacres, by exploiting the internal divisions in our societies. many populists are contributing to this, following a strange conception of sovereignty. hostile foreign actors aim to polarise our democratic societies, to undermine the union by a number of means, from covert or overt influence on certain european political parties. the disinformation media in particular, like rt or sputnik which have recently been banned across the european union, often focused on the same political issues that are fostering these divisions, this polarization: hatred against migrants, lack of trust in public authorities, anti-vaccine conspiracy theories in particular. foreign interference cannot be dealt with with fragmented policies or simply with our usual rules. we must of course maintain our rule of law, but we must also strengthen it. this calls for a multi-faceted, multi-stakeholder policy framework, which places responsibility on all and requires decisive action by all actors and institutions concerned. in particular, on behalf of the presidency, we have included in our agenda for this semester the revision of the rules governing the exercise of democracy within the union. i want to welcome the commission's action in its recent proposals, and yours in particular, dear vera jourová. this is a huge priority for our presidency. i would like to draw attention to two points in particular in the council's recently adopted position on the proposal for a recast of the regulation on the statute and financing of european political parties and foundations. first, the transparency of the financial flows to these european political parties should be increased. citizens must know the origin of the funding received by the parties that express their will. the aim is to reinforce the verification and transparency mechanism for all donations exceeding € 1 500 per donor per year, which is twice the previous ceiling. secondly, in order to minimise this risk of foreign interference, we must also restrict participation in the funding of european political parties to members from european union countries only; the council adopted this position as a major step forward in this text. the context in which we live makes such precautions all the more necessary. this does not, however, of course, prevent european political parties from maintaining cooperation with political partners beyond the union's borders: this must be regulated, and the funding even more so. together with you, we are therefore working to develop this european legislative framework which will reduce the gaps, the possibilities of interference in our european political parties, in our common democratic life. we are also working together, as you know, on other relevant legislative proposals, such as those related to digital services, cybersecurity, anti-money laundering legislation, and the regulation of cryptocurrencies. and we hope to make similar rapid progress in the council in our positions and in the interinstitutional negotiations. in particular, the council is working to develop a european union framework to respond to hybrid threats: a european union hybrid toolkit. we are fighting this battle on all fronts. it will be a long battle, it is a vital battle for our democracy. we sometimes have to fight it within our own countries. we must not be naive or weak on this subject.
we now have a personal statement under rule 173, under which members who ask to make a personal statement are to be heard at the end of the discussion of the agenda item which is being dealt with. so mr puigdemont wants to take the floor. he has three minutes.
madam president, there have been accusations, direct allusions, that i cannot ignore. it is a lie fabricated by the spanish intelligence services to attack the independence movement. there is a long and structural tradition of fabrication of false information which this parliament could investigate if it is really determined to fight against false information. i could give you a lot of examples that affect me personally: defamation and slander that are never prosecuted by the spanish justice system. in any case, the most commented case, and the one which is the basis of today's allegations, is the spanish police report which is supposed to prove the links which are the subject of today's debate. it was rejected by the spanish prosecutor because of its complete lack of credibility. do you know what is collected as compromising messages? passages from a book that my office manager translated from russian into catalan and spanish. a book about two russian spies in the united states, which was the basis for the popular television series "the americans". mixing academic and editorial work with documents proving the relationship between the...
mr puigdemont, you are supposed to respond on the personal statement regarding the comments made, so please.
..because i was accused of sharing interests with the russian secret services, so i have to answer those lies by telling exactly what happened. i say that the person who was accused of being a russian spy and who was supposed to be the liaison between putin and the catalan independence movement with whom i shared a coffee in geneva for five or ten minutes, was actually the person in charge of trade relations between catalonia and russia at the barcelona chamber of commerce. can you imagine if he were a russian spy, that the spanish authorities would grant him the right to reside in the european union? can you imagine that? and so it should be known that while catalonia was demonstrating en masse to become an independent state within the european union, russian warships were filled up more than 50 times... (the president withdrew from the floor)
i think you correctly responded to what concerns you and, as for the rest, i do not think that this is the time for this debate. it’s a personal statement concerning yourself and it’s not on the different matters. so thank you mr puigdemont. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. once again, i am convinced that the european parliament has become a platform for people who have broken with reality. at a time when we have several concurrent crises and unprecedented war in europe, we are discussing some imaginary connection between putin and the nationalists in europe. i'm not surprised. it's all the fault of the far right, the nationalists, the conservatives and so on. never failures are due to the crazy ideas of the left-liberals who run europe. you never take responsibility for the big failures. dear, when you closed your eyes to nord stream 2, was the far right again to blame? when you were working to undermine the european energy system and signing various green pacts while continuing to buy russian oil and gas, were the nationalists guilty again? of course you didn't. this debate will not hide your shame. and today, when ukraine needs help, you decided to impose sanctions on poland and hungary, which are carrying the brunt of the refugee crisis. you must understand that the defenders of ukraine, its heroes, are the patriots and nationalists. it is their sense of duty and honor that compels them to confront their much larger adversary and heroically defend their home. this debate is a disgrace.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the ongoing hearings under article 7(1) eu regarding poland and hungary (2022/2569(rsp)). i want to remind my colleagues that free seating is applied with the exception of the first two rows, which are allocated to group leaders. you will be able to request catch—the—eye and blue cards via your voting machine after having inserted your voting cards. you have the instructions next to your office. i would also like to remind you that interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum except for catch—the—eye, blue cards and points of order.
president of the council. madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, as a continuation of the previous debate, we know that democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are our common values. and as president macron said before you on 19 january, on behalf of the presidency of the council, they are also our treasure, as well as the cornerstone of the european union. their imperative is more important than ever today, when ukraine is brutally attacked. this war, in essence, reminds us of the essential. it shows how important it is for states to comply with the rules they have set themselves, to which they have sovereignly subscribed. this is essential, this is respect for the rule of law. i would particularly like to commend the commitment of the european commission and many of you to this fight. the rule of law is at the heart of the union because it is the basis of mutual trust, legal certainty, our single market, equality for all in the application of common rules, which is essential for the functioning of our union, its market, its policies. the french presidency of the council of the european union has committed itself to continuing this more structured approach, followed since 2020, with in particular the council dialogues on the rule of law. i would like to announce that a fourth country-specific discussion, devoted to this wave in luxembourg, hungary, malta, the netherlands and austria, will take place next week in the general affairs council, which i will chair. i believe that exchanges in this format allow us to have a useful, political discussion in a constructive atmosphere that concerns each country. the annual report of the european commission, which i would like to welcome again, is an essential part of this process. this dialogue within the council facilitates the sharing not only of good practice and criticism but also of reflections on specifically identified points of difficulty. both must support our actions in all these aspects of the rule of law. in this way, we intend to continue to improve the instruments for strengthening and promoting the rule of law: this was the meaning of our informal debate in the general affairs council which i had the opportunity to organise in arles a little over a month ago. as regards the two article 7 procedures, i believe that our presidency has already demonstrated its determination to continue the work, and i have had the opportunity to be heard on several occasions before your parliament, while also maintaining, of course, an open and constructive dialogue with the two countries concerned, poland and hungary. we've resumed auditions that were suspended. a hearing from poland took place on 22 february. all the subjects were covered. all those in the commission's reasoned proposal have been discussed. poland was able to present to the council the aspects of the reforms to be considered by the polish parliament, notably concerning the key point of the disciplinary chamber of the supreme court. we will now be vigilant in implementing these announcements, which commit poland, and we hope that this dialogue and pressure will be fruitful between poland and the european commission in particular, in order to reach solutions that preserve the rule of law. a hearing of hungary is also scheduled, in accordance with the timetable we announced, for 30 may. it will be an important and essential moment in assessing the situation of the rule of law in this member state. the chair cannot prejudge these discussions, but the fact that we have scheduled this hearing is a very clear signal of our commitment. we are listening and will listen again today to the european parliament's suggestions with great attention to the scope of this exercise, given that the last hearings, which took place in june 2021, had already been opened under the portuguese presidency to all the many issues contained in the european parliament's reasoned proposal. we will also be following closely the work leading up to parliament's interim report on the procedure for hungary. i want to conclude by saying a word about the cross compliance regulation, which is another element of our toolbox, which does not directly concern article 7 procedures. each must remain within its legal and political framework, i believe that is necessary, but it is obviously a very powerful additional instrument - you mentioned it at the beginning of your work this week. i say this on behalf of the presidency, as we have said since the beginning of our six-month presidency of the council, we are ready to take the next steps. it is now up to the european commission to take the first steps, as president von der leyen announced yesterday in front of your house. we stand ready, on the council's side, to continue these debates, this work and to give life to this instrument, which we as co-legislators have built together and which is essential for the preservation of the rule of law in our union.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for putting on today’s agenda the article 7 proceedings regarding poland and hungary. it is essential that all of us, eu institutions and member states alike, contribute within their respective roles and competences to upholding the rule of law in the eu. as regards poland, you will be aware that the last hearing under article 7(1) of the treaty procedure took place before the council on 22 february this year. this was the fifth formal hearing since the commission adopted its reasoned proposal on 20 december 2017. at this hearing, the commission updated the council on the most important developments that occurred in recent months, concluding that the situation on the ground continued to give rise to serious concerns. these developments include a number of rulings of the polish constitutional tribunal, questioning the basic foundations of the eu’s legal order and a number of international obligations. the commission informed the council about the infringement procedure launched against poland on 22 december 2021 as regards the constitutional tribunal, and the commission also informed the council of several recent judgments of the court of justice and the european court of human rights, which have confirmed the commission’s concerns on the rule of law in poland. the commission notes as a positive step the fact that there is movement to address and reform the disciplinary regime in poland. underlying that, it is imperative that new legislation complies with eu law and solves the issues raised by the court of justice. the commission is open and available for dialogue with the polish authorities in order to resolve existing concerns. concerning hungary, the commission has had the opportunity to explain on different occasions that it shares an important number of concerns expressed by the european parliament in its reasoned proposal, triggering the article 7 procedure. the commission updated the council on related recent developments at the general affairs council on 14 december 2021, expressing regret that no positive developments were registered in the areas covered by the article 7 proceedings. the commission also reiterated its availability to engage with the hungarian authorities to resolve issues of concern. the commission has also made very clear that whatever position the council will be taking on the article 7 procedure, it must ensure a fair handling of the reasoned proposal tabled by parliament. a new hearing of hungary under article 7 has been scheduled by the french presidency for 30 may. the union also has at its disposal the budget conditionality mechanism, as clément beaune just referred to as well. following the february judgment of the court of justice, on 2 march, the commission adopted guidelines that clarify how the budget conditionality regulation will apply. president von der leyen also announced yesterday that the commission would launch the next steps in the process of protection of the eu budget after reviewing the reply from the government of hungary to the informal letter sent last november. last but not least, in july 2022 – so in several months – the commission will publish its third annual rule of law report. for the first time, it will includes recommendations. these recommendations will help member states to focus their follow-up on the key issues, including on justice, anti-corruption, media freedom, and checks and balances. they should also help and support member states in their efforts to uphold the rule of law and to prevent problems from emerging or deepening. let me refer to the fact that this rule of law report is meant to be a preventive tool. a very important one, in my view. to conclude, i regret that i am not in a position today to report on positive developments falling under the article 7 procedure. i hope and wish that the ongoing proceedings will allow the polish and hungarian authorities to reflect further on how to respond to the concerns expressed. i would also like to thank the french presidency for having kept on the council’s agenda the procedures initiated under article 7 against poland and hungary, and for having scheduled formal hearings in this regard.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, now, poland is not hungary, and hungary is not poland, and both countries merit very much their own assessment and individual evaluation. on hungary, we welcome the announcement yesterday that a notification has been sent under the rule of law conditionality. it’s an important step, and it means the commission is now convinced there is a clear case of rule of law violations that endanger the union’s financial interest. we look forward to hearing more about the details. rule of law conditionality is a crucial tool in our toolbox, and it should be used effectively. also in poland, patience is wearing thin. the polish government has had every opportunity to fulfil the requirements set out by president von der leyen and court of justice of the european union (ecj) judgments – dismantling the disciplinary chamber, ending the disciplinary regime for polish judges and reinstalling judges that have been unlawfully dismissed. we have seen little progress, despite prime minister morawiecki’s promises from last autumn. in the absence of such progress, the european commission must stand firm. i know there are people who argue that, with the terrible war ongoing in ukraine, now is not the time to focus on rule of law issues, it would not be fair to bother member states like hungary and poland with these issues, with procedures, with conditionality, at a time when the polish and hungarian people are making such great efforts to welcome ukrainian refugees. let me be absolutely clear: we need solidarity in the eu; we need to help the member states most affected by this crisis, and we equally share the responsibility to take care of millions of ukrainian refugees. this is why we are together in one union. but let me be equally clear: helping member states deal with an unprecedented crisis should never come at the cost of being silent about rule of law issues at home, simply because that would be cynical. at a moment when ukrainians are fighting and dying for values like freedom, rule of law and democracy, it would be cynical to turn a blind eye to the attack on those very same values at home. if anything, putin’s russia should be a stark warning to all of us about the dangers of a system where checks and balances, democracy and rule of law have ceased to exist.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, it took the commission 459 days to trigger the conditionality mechanism against hungary. and let’s be honest about the reasons behind this long—awaited decision: it was never about the ecj ruling or the commission’s guidelines, nor some recent transgressions in hungary, because these have been documented for over a decade; it is about the massive toxic influence of one non-democratic leader on the entire eu political system, poisoning everything from values to energy policies, to our security and foreign policy choices. by now, everyone should see that mr orbán’s hungary is not a local problem. a month ago, we entered a new era of war in europe, and if every member state behaved as hungary, there would be no eu response. in fact, there would be no eu. so now, at last, we need a robust eu action, blocking funds for orbán’s kleptocracy and, if it comes to that, indeed, moving with article 7 and suspending voting rights in the council. because dithering over eu values is what brought us here, and it must end now.
madam president, yesterday ursula von der leyen, the president of the european commission, announced a new set of sanctions and a new procedure against hungary. but what crime did viktor orbán commit? he was re-elected on sunday with an absolute majority, the most comfortable in europe. he is the best-elected head of government in the european union. and of course, the european institutions show on this occasion how much they have a real problem today with democracy. it has been five years since there were article 7 proceedings against poland and hungary. and everyone knows that in reality these alleged violations of the rule of law are only a pretext, a political pretext. hungary and poland are accused of defending our identity as a european and christian civilization. they are accused of wanting to fight immigration and of refusing the mandatory quotas for the distribution of migrants. they are criticized for not giving in to injunctions and lgbt activism. today, hungary is at the forefront of welcoming ukrainian refugees. one billion was paid by the hungarian state. it is time for the european union to respect democracy, to stop the sanctions and proceedings against hungary, and to really and concretely help hungary. because you talk a lot about european solidarity, but you rarely put it into practice.
madam president, russian aggression has changed the world. it has strengthened our position. it opened many eyes to the dictatorial collapse. but for some, pictures of buche are not enough. in that case, i'm afraid we can't help you. now is the time to stand up for freedom, for democracy and for human rights. now is the time to defend european values. poland can be immensely proud of its citizens and their huge wave of solidarity. the people of poland are unhesitatingly on the right side of history. they demonstrate this by their daily actions in helping those fleeing russian aggression. i therefore call on the polish government to find the courage to catch up with its citizens. warsaw can show good will to take steps to promote the much needed unity of our europe. europe is strong when justice is done, when we do not fight over disputes we can solve. we have to say unpleasant things to each other among friends. the polish government's willingness to understand each other on justice issues is still low. the key to a strong and stable europe is now in warsaw's hands. i'll be brief on the situation in hungary. i'd like to be optimistic, but the first words of the winner of the hungarian election threaten me. hungarian politics is unfortunately breaking up europe. they are following the values on which the european project is based. it's time to use all instruments, including financial ones, madam vice president, to defend democracy and justice in budapest fully together. we must not hesitate any longer.
madam president, i do not want to talk about right, left, i do not want to talk about liberalism and conservatism. i want to speak about the sacred right of citizens of a nation state to elect as their representatives whom they see fit and to be free from any punishment. the anthem of the republic of hungary begins with the words "god bless the hungarians". the european anthem opens with an ode to joy. today, after the statements of some politicians who call themselves liberals, which is as far from liberalism as my horse meat, we can cry. both mrs leyen and the vice-president of the european parliament have even said that the hungarians should be punished for having made the choice they have made. this is unacceptable, this is unacceptable, this is something terrible, something unprecedented. and that's why all i can say is isten áld meg and magyart. that's all i have to say.
mr president, in 2005, an institute for the study of the russian regime wrote: 'in order to establish his plebiscite dictatorship, putin decided to break with liberalism and replace it with an ideology of a different order. putin has steered his regime into a patriotic, anti-western, imperialist, clerical, militarist, authoritarian and xenophobic nationalism. this is the brutal face we see in russia today. this regime has strengthened police repression, established a justice system at the behest of the authorities to destroy any protesting will and covers arbitrary arrests, such as that of alexei navalny. exile today has become the only way to claim a russia with a human face. the dictators do not listen to us, so we must turn to the free voices. it is these free voices that we must help. it is these free voices that we must protect when they ask for it.
mr. chairman, alexei navalny is a symbol of freedom in russia today, because he has stood up to vladimir putin with his candidacy for president and his fight against corruption. likewise, ukraine has become a symbol of freedom. she stood up to putin and his bloody war with the active resistance of her people and her army. vladimir putin hates freedom in his heart, fears it perhaps more than nato fighter jets or the strong eu economy. in fact, they fear that freedom, change of mind and penetration of freedom into russian society. so he's jailing his critics, liquidating the media, suppressing protests, waging wars, and bombing civilians. clearly, this is the fear that putin cannot stop. so it's not going to end, just like it didn't end with the poisoning of alexei navalny or the occupation of eastern ukraine before. only the freedom of russian society, symbolized today by alexei navalny, can stop him.
mr. chairman, in russia, it is forbidden to talk about the war, it is forbidden to speak the truth. those who have the courage to speak the truth are exposed to violence, police brutality and a hijacked judiciary. russia is expanding its cruelty not only in ukraine, but also at home on its own population. the re-imprisonment of alexei navalny is a symptom of problems that have been growing in russia for years. putin is a brutal dictator who is destroying civil society, independent media, freedom of speech and pluralism of opinion. as long as russia is a dictatorship, there is nothing to stop putin's expansive ambitions. and after ukraine, ladies and gentlemen, he will not hesitate to attack lithuania, poland or slovakia. as long as russia has political opponents in prison, russia will be a threat to europe. alexei navalny said that russia will not be able to imprison all those who oppose the regime. she's right. europe must support those who fight against the putin regime in word and deed. i am proud that we have awarded the sakharov prize to alexei navalny. i believe that one day he will come for her personally.
for the ppe group. mr president, the last ten years have shown that having ambition, strategy or even money is not enough. on the one hand, europe is leading the way in artificial intelligence, robotics, even space program, on the other hand, it is unable to get drinking water to european regions where poor roma drink from the stream in the 21st century. we can develop cutting-edge technologies, but we can't educate roma children. we are capable of creating millions of jobs, but we cannot give jobs to europe's roma. we are able to realize what we once dreamed of, but we cannot fulfill the dreams of roma children. i myself have co-authored several resolutions concerning the observance of human rights in countries outside the european union. on the one hand we see the suffering of the weak and powerless everywhere and on the other hand we have accepted for too long the catastrophic living conditions of our own roma europeans. i have repeatedly stressed that we have a huge number of children without education, parents without work, that the education systems in several countries are not able to prepare roma children for the labour market. today we know exactly where the shoe is pushing us. we have plans, even money. but the situation has not improved, and it must be said, my friends, that ambition is not enough. any campaign, any ambition without political will is doomed to failure. we see how many municipalities are able to successfully draw on european money for bike paths, electric trains, cultural houses, but when it comes to projects for roma, it stops there. the rise of racism and fascism is also due to the long-standing failure to implement in european towns and cities what the european union and the member states are planning. we're on the threshold of a new decade. it is our responsibility to ensure that the plans are not just on paper, but that the roma feel it, as do the people living near the roma communities. dear friends, we can no longer ignore the dreams of roma children. roma children are also european children.
for the renew group. mr president, there is a war in ukraine and i know that we are dealing every day with how to stop putin and save lives, and it is very difficult to get your attention right now to what is happening right here in the european union in our member states. but a few kilometres east of that institutional bubble of ours, there are separate and segregated roma settlements in different member states. and in them, even though people live there in peace, children die every day from malnutrition, from respiratory diseases, at night they are bitten by rats. they're itchy, they're lice, they're coughing, and they're hungry. many teenage girls turn to prostitution just to get food. many children are given toluene or glue by their own parents to keep them from feeling hungry. in many roma settlements, thousands of people live without access to drinking water, gas, or electricity. they don't have access to quality education, they don't have access to the labor market, they don't have access to employment, they don't have access to health care. i ask whether this is compatible with the social europe we talk about every day. we have seen this with our own eyes during the european parliament's delegation to the roma settlements in the slovak republic, but it is not the case in romania, bulgaria, the czech republic or hungary. it is about millions of people, europeans, whose living conditions are incompatible with what we here in our brussels bubble call a social europe in which no one can be left behind. this is a clear example of the continuing disregard for basic human rights and the rule of law, not only by the people in the settlements but also by the people living near them. the strategies we write down on paper are clearly not working in practice, and i wonder where all the billions of euros from eu funds went when there is no sewage in the settlements and people are walking around in the rain up to their ankles in their own feces. policies to include roma from segregated settlements are failing because there is no political will at member state level to address their problems and integrate roma into society. it is not only the roma who suffer, but also the neronians, and we should stop looking at it as an alibi.
mr president, the roma in central europe are particularly vulnerable in the long term. many roma communities have been socially excluded for decades, and their status and prospects for a better future remain dim. the consequences of the covid pandemic and the brutal russian aggression affect every european. but in crises, the weakest suffer the most. if we do not support them, if we do not give them the opportunity to live a decent life, the current problems of the roma will be much worse in a few years. many solutions are in the hands of individual member states. even more than three decades after the fall of communism, we have not resolved the ownership of land and land in communities where many roma live in slovakia. while there are examples of successful social enterprises and local business initiatives that offer jobs to roma, they are isolated snails rather than a coherent system. a successful evaluation of the european recovery plan must also include a look at those who are most at risk. member states now have european money to support projects that can fundamentally change the quality of life of roma children. social isolation during the pandemic has shown how much they lack access to a decent education or clean drinking water. but beyond finance and ideas, what we need above all is the political courage to stand up for equal opportunities and the integration of everyone into the wider society. if we want to help the roma, we must act in tandem with european values in brussels, bratislava and jarovnice. i am convinced that the social support for roma life in central europe will come back to all of us.
mr president, according to statistics from the eu agency for fundamental rights, around 80% of roma in europe live in absolute poverty, in catastrophic conditions, often without access to drinking water, medical care or education. and the poor social situation, often at the level of developing countries, is of course exacerbated by the fact that this largest national minority in the european union is discriminated against in all areas of life. and virtually all experts, including the commission, agree that the key to breaking the cycle of generational poverty is education. and that is why i want to ask the commissioner here today: it is now more than six years since the infringement cases against slovakia, the czech republic and hungary for discriminating against roma children in education were launched. the children born then are now in first grade, most of them probably doomed to fail. i therefore ask: when will the commission finally take action to prevent the persistent discrimination against these children in the member states?
mr president, the situation of marginalised communities in the european union is a particularly serious problem. the coronavirus pandemic has contributed significantly to further deepening the poverty, social exclusion and health status of disadvantaged communities. in countries like my own, slovakia, this poverty can be further exacerbated by the consequences of sanctions on energy resources from russia. we talk about electric cars today, about digitisation, but even this morning, 30% of roma in the union woke up in homes without access to drinking water. this is unacceptable in the 21st century and we cannot speak of solidarity, european values or social europe in this way. i am glad that the commissioner also stressed today that 80% of roma in the union live below the poverty line. in my country, slovakia, there are currently 50 roma settlements with no drinking water and 500 settlements with access only to public water supply or wells. i personally know dozens of roma and their families from my home region and their daily social problems and really, believe me, they are serious. imagine that the slovak government, despite promises to use the eu funds more efficiently, will probably have to repay more than two-thirds of the money from the human resources operational programme by the end of 2023. we are likely to lose more than eur 250 million, which could have benefited disadvantaged roma communities. commissioner, we have to do something about this.
madam president, the proposers wanted to help the environment with this proposal, and that is a good goal. however, when extending the life of products, we should not only take into account that if old products have a longer life, we will not harm the environment by producing new products. we should also take into account that, according to expert studies, repaired old products often do more harm to the environment than new products of the new ecological generation. imagine if, 50 years ago, there had been a right to 50 years of repair and a 50 year warranty, what kind of cars we would see on the road today. it is therefore important that such designs are analysed now and in the future and that their environmental impact is precisely quantified. so we don't do more harm than good.
in writing. i am very pleased that, thanks to an amendment i co-authored, we have succeeded in banning the incorporation of so-called cassettes in appliances. after the entry into force of this legal standard, products should be designed to last longer and at the same time to be repaired safely. at the same time, the consumer should have free access to repair and maintenance information. clearly, manufacturers are not very happy about this, but securing the repair will strengthen the entire raw material chain and allow for the creation of new jobs. from now on, manufacturers will have to put durability information on the product, putting pressure on their longer durability.
thank you, ms loiseau. i’ll put the request to the vote by roll call, and give time for colleagues to enter their voting card. (parliament rejected the request)the agenda in this regard remains unchanged. for tuesday, the s&d group has asked that the debate on the follow-up of the conference on the future of europe taking place on tuesday afternoon be wound up with a resolution to be voted on wednesday. i give the floor to ms garcía pérez to move the request on behalf of the political group.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. it is therefore important that this parliament holds a debate on this subject and, moreover, that this debate be accompanied by a resolution in which we can express the position of this institution on the fundamental issues to be taken into account by this conference. there is agreement on the part of a significant number of groups in this house on the resolution and it should therefore be put on the agenda for a vote the day after the debate, that is to say on wednesday.
thank you, ms garcía pérez. would any colleague like to speak against? mr verhofstadt, you want to speak in favour? i think you can get 30 seconds to speak in favour! you are in favour. (mr verhofstadt indicated that he was indeed in favour)
mr weber, would you like the floor? (mr weber indicated that he did not wish to speak)ok, thanks a lot, that’s clear. let’s put the request to the vote. (parliament approved the request)therefore the debate on the follow—up to the conference on the future of europe will be wound up with a resolution to be voted on wednesday. i’ll give you the deadlines. motions for resolutions: monday, 2 may at 19.00; amendments to the motions for resolutions and joint motions for resolutions: tuesday 3 may at noon; amendments to the joint motions for resolutions: tuesday at 13.00; and split and separate votes: tuesday at 19.00. also on wednesday, the left group has asked that council and commission statements are added on the resignation of the frontex executive director in light of the olaf inquiry into frontex as the fourth item on wednesday afternoon, after the council and commission statements on threats to stability, security and democracy in western and sahelian africa. i give the floor to cornelia ernst to move the request on behalf of her group.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are anxious to have a debate on this subject. the debate is also urgently needed in view of the resignation last week of the executive director of frontex, fabrice leggeri. and i would point out that to this day members have not had access to the 200-page report of the olaf investigation which is directly related to this resignation. the european parliament is responsible for monitoring frontex and we must discuss this withdrawal with the commission and the council. frontex has long tolerated violations of fundamental rights at the eu's external borders, as we know. the olaf report has given us further information, and i think we should agree on this. we ask for your support, including by roll call vote.
would any colleague like to speak against? mr sarvamaa, please go ahead.
madam president, as the epp group spokesperson on budgetary control, and therefore the committee responsible for the discharge of agencies, i would like to underline that, first of all, partly on the same grounds that this was moved, namely that we simply have no way to discuss all of the investigation. there is no point in having this discussion. and, secondly, the discharge we are going to vote on wednesday will be most probably and also my group will be for postponing the discharge as the clear majority of groups, including yours, will be asking for postponing. so, therefore, we want to have a thorough look at what happened and what did the olaf report say actually, and then come back to this after the second discharge report so that we all have the possibility to have a meaningful discussion on this subject.
thank you very much, mr sarvamaa. now i put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request)so the agenda in this regard remains unchanged. with this, we come to the end of all the requests and the agenda is therefore adopted. the order of business is established.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr domènec ruiz devesa, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation on the direct and general election of the members of the european parliament and repealing council decision (76/787/ecsc, eec, euratom) and the act concerning the direct and general election of the members of the european parliament annexed to this decision (2020/2220 ((inl)) (a9-0083/2022). i just want to remind you that before we start, we are testing some of the recommendations of the specialised group on reform of the plenary. many of you have had the opportunity to do this before, so all of those rules apply.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i want first of all to thank the rapporteur, domènec ruiz devesa, who did an excellent job because this is not only about spitzenkandidaten, not only about transnational list, it is a complete electoral law. it’s a huge legislative file that we have prepared that is an overhaul of the electoral system on the 8th, on transnational votes, on a democratisation for the spitzenkandidaten on the election day, on everything. i want to thank especially sven simon for his intervention. i have older bottles in my cellar, but i will wait until the votes are sent to open them, so we will see. so let there be no hesitation for those who believe in europe to vote in favour of this. i know that mr annemans’ idea people vote against. he’s against europe. he’s against the european demos. he will say it himself, he has another opinion about europe in any way and in any way, a europe that is not based on transnational list and on a european demos. that’s the reality. and i want all those who have hesitations to reflect on that. listen to mr annemans and you will know why you will vote in favour of this file in a few moments, in a few seconds. don't follow those in fact who don’t want a european demos and who think that democracy can express itself by simple addition of national democracies. by the way, this file doesn’t abolish national democracy. what we have is we give two votes to the people, one vote on european level to vote for his own representative in the european parliament, national representative on the parliament, and then a second vote to express the european concerns, the european challenges that are at stake. and the most important point of this side, and i think sven simon has quietly underlined it, is this is also to avoid the catastrophe – may i say that? – of 2019. in 2019, when the parliament was an outsider, i should say, in the designation, the nomination of the leading figure of the european union, the president of the commission. by this system, there will be a democratisation of the spitzenkandidat. there will be votes for the spitzenkandidat, and it will be impossible in my opinion, dear colleagues, that the council will choose somebody else, will nominate somebody else than the spitzenkandidat who has won the elections in 2024. that is what is at stake, with the balance between big member states, small member states and medium member states. so for those who are still hesitating, this is in fact an historical and existential file for europe and for the european project. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
just before the next speaker, mr rangel has asked for a blue card, which is not typically used in the first round of speakers, but feel free to have the floor for 30 seconds, as mr verhofstadt agrees.
mr president, i’m really enjoying this discussion. i hope we can actually bring it to our constituents in the member states but i do believe the moment i begin talking about transnational lists back home, you know, there will be a big silence. the discussion just goes dead, that is the reality. and that’s why i want to say, as a convinced european, that transnational lists are creating a problem rather than fixing it. if i am to be blunt, transnational lists are a problematic solution to a problem that did not exist to begin with. transnational lists go against the very principle of european unity and equality of european citizens. they could create a division among meps based on their constituencies, creating confusion as to which constituencies are represented by which meps. this whole notion could add more distance between the elected transnational meps and their voters. it would, in turn, create questions about the legitimacy of the elected meps and the applicability of their vote. possibly, it could trigger a discussion on european versus local meps, thus creating an additional dividing line in european politics. indeed, i could go on and on, but i think this concept only deepens divisions in europe, and this is the fundamental problem. i don’t see any valid data that would tell us otherwise, and we don’t have any examples from other political systems. we can always argue europe is sui generis. it is! but let’s not experiment. let’s look at practical solutions, how we can bring more voters to the european elections in 2024. i’m saying this as somebody, who is coming from a country that has seen the lowest turnout in european elections, and i can tell you convincingly, transnational lists are not going to resolve the problem. we should rather strive to bring europe closer to our citizens by honest and diligent political work, not by creating transnational lists. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card answer. – the answer is very simple. we are elected on a single list. with two lists, you create two different classes of meps, two different classes of candidates, two different classes of people running for political office, and that is the problem. you also create different constituencies. at the moment, my country is a single electoral district. very simple, very clear. this sort of revolution would not make – believe me – a positive difference when it comes to participation in european elections and a tie and connection between those who vote and those who are elected. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card answer. – i don’t think transnational lists are going to improve the european union. we can lose any other member state because of the way we don’t connect our domestic politics to european issues and european agenda to domestic politics. and this is not going to be done through transnational lists. well, we have to be actively engaged. we have to have a much longer, much more massive campaign. we have to have a permanent campaign in our constituencies and bring the issues back to our voters. talk to our voters, connect with them, and do this through diligent work, not through social engineering, such as transnational lists.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i thank the honourable members very much for this debate. very interesting, very lively, very concrete, factual. i myself didn’t know what exactly to expect when i was coming here. and for me, this is very important that now i know that the spectrum of the opinions is so wide and there are so many arguments, pros and cons. i would like to use this opportunity of having these concluding remarks maybe to clarify once again the position of the commission. but first of all, let me react on several comments. first of all, indeed, as pascal durand said, i said that the recommendations of the conference on the future of europe should be respected, and we should work with them for respect. we have 325 recommendations, and the one which suggests the changes of the electoral system is there, is one of them. to be honest, more than the institutional issues, the people we are discussing in this room, the matters which they see as important in their everyday life. ms bischoff was here with me and with many others. it was incredible what was happening here over the plenaries, also now on friday and saturday. the people obviously want to see more resilient europe, more secure. they want to have europe where there will be more justice and fairness, especially social fairness. they indeed want to have a more democratic europe, european union and more understandable. and this is connected with what ms grapini said, the question about european citizenship. that is one of the recommendations also that we should strengthen that so that the european citizens are not only asked to come once in five years to elect, to cast their vote. we want, we need, healthy democracies need active and well-informed citizens. so, these are the matters which we heard from the citizens. eight hundred citizens were selected and they worked well with those who represented the european parliament, national parliaments and social partners and some other institutions. so, this is it. i take the recommendations which were delivered to us through the conference as a task, and we will discuss further when and how to deal with the recommendations, including this one. and now what the commission wants: indeed, as mr rangel before indicated to me informally that the commission should be impartial. so i want to confirm once again the position which maybe was not very clear. i said at the beginning that the commission is supporting the overall objectives of mr ruiz devesa’s proposal. when you look at the european democracy action plan, you would see in it that what we propose for europe is to keep and to guarantee free and fair elections, strengthen democratic legitimacy of the candidates, a level playing field for the candidates and fair electoral and transparent electoral campaigning, which will guarantee visibility and accountability of the candidates. here comes the question: whether the candidates, which will be elected through the transnational list, will be able to be fully accountable to their voters in different countries. i do not say yes or no. it’s for you to debate it. but i believe that in this higher turnout, in elections, in these overall objectives, we are on the same page with the proposal we discussed today. and i also said that the commission will act as a facilitator of the process, which includes also to be able to give the commission legal opinion on the legal conditions and the questions which you asked, whether this proposal is not getting outside the framework of the treaty, this is for the commission for the legal service. and we will, of course, watch the process of voting on the final proposal also in the council, because, as we know, the council will have to unanimously vote. high time to do that. in the previous mandate, it was in 2000. oh, i am beyond the time, sorry, i will conclude soon. in 2017, what i heard in the member states when the proposal for the changes of the electoral system appeared, i heard many times ‘it was too late’. many national politicians, in fact, were caught by surprise. and that’s why i think that it’s high time to introduce the changes this year. otherwise, the system will remain the same for 2024. sorry, i wanted to say more but these were the most important things i wanted to share with you. and thank you once again. i don’t remember such an open and vivid and constructive debate in this parliament. this was a really amazing experience for me.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on tuesday 3 may 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the rapporteur proposes that the number of meps be increased by 28. these additional members should be selected from a transnational pool. i do not think that it is necessary to increase the number of meps at a time when we are facing many crises (russian aggression, high inflation, rising energy prices, the coronavirus pandemic ...), which will make it increasingly necessary to rapidly optimize public spending. i also think that creating a new category of meps would be another complication of the way the european union works, without having analysed the benefits of such an investment. in my view, further breaking down barriers to cooperation between member states, for example in the area of services, would rather help to improve the functioning of the eu institutions and to increase interest in the euro. it would also help if the eu were more transparent. at least as transparent as slovakia, where contracts with the state are published. it would also help if the union were more understandable. it is not very clear at present, for example, the materials discussed by the european parliament are less clear to the public than those discussed by the national council of the slovak republic.
in writing. in the wake of the pandemic and in the context of the war in ukraine, we are at a crossroads for the european union. we need a change, we need new mechanisms to strengthen european resilience but also european sovereignty. one such instrument is that of democratic participation. transnational lists can provide the possibility of european representativeness for members of the european parliament, but above all a direct accountability to all european citizens. we can also hope for the proper implementation of the system whereby the first on the list is the proposal for the head of the european commission and thus strengthen the legitimacy of the european executive. however, we must avoid accentuating the imbalance between member states and ensure that romania does not lose its representativeness. but from good intentions to practice, the road is long. we have some work to do, but i'm confident that together we can find a solution.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr martin hojsík, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending annexes iv and v to regulation (eu) 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants (com (2021) 0656 c9-0396/2021 2021/0340 (cod)) the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
rapporteur. – mr president, as the rapporteur for the review of the waste limits for the persistent organic pollutants, i’m very proud of what we have achieved in the envi committee, but also of the great support from all the major groups. i would therefore like to thank all my colleagues who are supporting low, responsible limits for the content of the pops in the waste. and we are not talking about some nice chemicals, these are some of the worst chemicals known to mankind. examples: we are talking about pfas – forever chemicals; we talking about dioxins, ddt. and unfortunately, even years after the restrictions, after we banned these chemicals, we still find them in the water, we still find them in the products: in the toys that our kids play with, or in the breastmilk of the new mothers. that is why the international stockholm convention requires parties, including the european union, to prohibit and/or take legal and administrative measures necessary to eliminate – and i am highlighting eliminate, going down to zero – both the production and the use of chemicals listed in the annex a, and their import and export. why? because they are persistent, they are for ever, they do not really break apart. and the limits? the limits are there because we have to have some limits. but ultimately, they are also bio—accumulative, they are going up in the food chain, and we are on top of the food chain. a recent report from the scientists, who concluded that the chemical pollution has now passed the safe limits for humanity, is indeed and should be a global wake—up call. therefore, what we decide during this review, and with the other co—legislators, will have an impact on public health and environment. it will have impact beyond national and european boundaries, as the waste limits also influence what we dispose in third countries, especially in developing countries. it is also why african countries are desperately asking eu to adopt low limits, because they see this as a light at the end of the tunnel to limit pollution to their own environment from the waste that we dump there. the limits that we adopt decide whether to allow those dangerous chemicals to enter our lives through waste. adoption of the envi report means a clear ‘no’ the toxic economy, clear ‘no’ to toxic recycled material, because these are waste limits. but dumping of waste, think of resource for the circular economy. we don’t want a circular economy that contains toxic chemicals. so i hope that tomorrow we will defend the result from the environment committee, and it will help to free our economy from pollution, increase the trust of our citizens in recycled materials and products. this is absolute precondition for a circular economy. i believe that this will be the case, as our report is ambitious but also realistic at the same time. the limits that we propose are within the impact assessment of the commission. and the commission said that it was technically and economically feasible. therefore, there is no reason why not to adopt lower limits that the commission proposed. as a step forward towards toxic—free future, my envi report proposes to adopt a limit of 200 mg/kg on some of pbdes, brominated flame retardants, with a review to lower it further in next 5 years; 200 mg/kg for the hbcdd, with a review to decrease it to 100 mg in 5 years; considerably lower limits for dioxins and furans; thresholds for the pfoas to reflect the commitment in the chemicals strategy for sustainability to reduce the contamination by the pfas that sadly many people are affected with; limit of 420 mg/kg for short—chain chlorinated paraffins; and we are also adding a new group of perfluorinated substances that will be soon listed – and by soon, i mean early june – to the convention; last but not least, we address the incoherence between the classification of all waste containing old and new pops to ensure effective treatment of all pops waste. i hope that by adopting the report tomorrow, we, the european parliament, will stand behind the public interest, and i hope that we get a strong mandate for our negotiations in a trilogue. it will not be easy, but i can promise you we’ll do the best.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i have listened carefully to the different interventions and i have taken good note of the ideas and desires of honourable members for increased ambition. i am pleased to see that we agree on the need to increase the scope and the stringency of our control on persistent organic pollutants in waste. in doing so, we will ensure tighter and better waste management. it will mean destroying greater amounts of these pollutants in waste and ensuring that what remains is managed in a sound way minimising emissions to the environment. regarding the level of ambition, i hear very clearly your call for limits that are stricter than those proposed by the commission for most substances. the commission too would like to go further, but when we proposed these limits, we did so on the basis of the best information available and on the basis of a balanced assessment of what is feasible from a technical, environmental and socioeconomic point of view. in its proposal, the commission has set ambitious limit values. they are systematically lower than the values for substances that were already in place. we also met the reduction requirements demanded by this house a little less than three years ago. we therefore consider that further work and honest discussions will be necessary for some of the limits proposed. we need to find a base that allows recyclers and other operators to continue and even accelerate the essential work they do in reducing the presence of persistent organic pollutants in waste. recyclers are not the problem. they are part of the solution. thank you once again for your work and for the very useful discussion today. and we look forward to engaging very soon in constructive trilogue negotiations with you and the council.
rapporteur. – madam president, first of all, let me thank you for the very interesting debate on this topic and for the support and encouragement that i got from you during this debate. now, this is indeed a global problem. i myself was in the arctic more than 20 years ago to witness the toxic pollution there. i was on the agbogbloshie dumpsite in ghana, where computers with pbdes from europe are ending and polluting the local environment, and i witnessed the measurements of mountain goats from the high tatras in slovakia, polluted with pops chemicals. we really have to eliminate these chemicals. toxic recycling is not an option. and i have to say to the commission that what we are proposing is not something that we pulled out of our fingers. these values are stricter than those proposed by the commission, yes, but are within what the commission, in its own impact assessment, said is technically, economically and socially feasible. just the commission decided to go for the middle of the range and we decided to go for ambition, because we believe that human health needs to have a very strong priority, that the best cancer is the one you don’t have to cure. it’s actually also the cheapest and with the least suffering. i was happy to hear the engagement also from the echa being stronger on the pfas. and i’m really happy for that. but i also hope that we can be equally strong on the brominated flame-retardants. the technologies are there. we really need to clean up our economy of the toxic chemicals, of the worst toxic chemicals, which the pops are, to start proper transformation to a sustainable circular economy without the toxic chemicals, with the trust of the consumers, and with the future that fits the planetary limits.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. third time, i ask my fellow socialists. get rid of the evil. get rid of the smer party, which is a sore in slovakia that needs to be operated on. while responsible politicians were protecting lives during covid, the trend of populism was endangering people. while the politicians responsible isolate the fascists, the right wants to rule with them. while responsible politicians do not turn a blind eye to putin's murder in ukraine, the putin direction defends. there is no doubt that under the fica governments, not only contracts but also judgments were traded. the state was de facto run by the mafia, which was willing to murder the journalist jan kuciak to protect fic's business. they silenced their political opponents by discrediting them. turns out they wanted to silence me, too. the police, run by the mafia from the direction, polished me in 2015. they also examined my mother, my nephews, nieces, children, wife, and even my mother-in-law. this is the work of the smeretz mafia. dear friends of the socialist faction. you have nothing to do with the mafia of the direction. get rid of them as soon as possible. they have no business among decent people.
the examination of this item is therefore closed.
the session is closed and will resume tomorrow, tuesday 3 may, at 9.00 a.m. with the priority debates on the commission communication on the threats to the safety of journalists and media freedom, in the context of world press freedom day. the rules of procedure have been published and are available on the european parliament's website.
dear colleagues, good morning. i have a short statement from my end because today is world press freedom day. the european parliament has always sought to defend and promote a strong and free press in europe and beyond. our position has always been – and will always be – on the side of the truth, on the side of the truth-seekers. journalists should never have to choose between uncovering the truth and staying alive. they should never be forced to spend years and savings to argue against vexatious lawsuits or slapps. so today, on world press freedom day, we launch the second edition of the daphne caruana galizia prize for journalism, a prize named after a journalist assassinated for speaking the truth. in her memory, we support those who promote and defend core european values and seek to establish the truth through outstanding journalism. i am proud that this parliament stands up for what we believe in. i am proud that we match our rhetoric with action – today and every day – because a strong democracy needs a strong press, and we know that there can be no democracy without freedom of the press. the next item is the debate on the commission statement on threats to the safety of journalists and media freedom, on the occasion of world press freedom day. dear colleagues, i remind you that we are testing some of the recommendations of the focus group on the plenary reform. the free seating is applied, with the exception of the first two rows that are allocated to group leaders. i would like to inform members that this debate is foreseen with one round of political group speakers and also that speakers can continue to speak from the central rostrum. so i remind colleagues to keep an eye on the speakers’ list and to approach the rostrum when your speaking time is imminent.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, on the occasion of this year’s world press freedom day, i would like to pay tribute, in particular, to journalists who are covering the russian war of aggression against ukraine from the place. they inform us at the risk of their lives. they are our eyes under russian bombs and threats. they show us what russia does not want us to see. indeed, as the president has just said, we have to stand on the side of truth seekers. our first priority is the safety of journalists. this is why the eu has already dedicated more than eur 6 million to emergency support for journalists in ukraine, including protective equipment, training and also relocation when necessary. but even in the eu, journalists are at risk for doing their work. this is why the commission presented in september last year, for the first time ever, recommendations to member states to improve the safety of journalists. we want to provide journalists facing threats with legal and psychological support and increase their protection online and offline, for instance, during demonstrations. but any legislation is only as effective as its implementation. therefore, i call on all member states to fully implement the measures suggested in the recommendation. a few days ago, the commission proposed legislation to protect journalists against abusive lawsuits – strategic lawsuits against public participation (slapps). these abusive proceedings are often david against goliath fights. those bringing these lawsuits are wealthy and powerful, their targets usually not. journalists speak in the public interest, they keep power in check and this is why we need to protect them. i call this a toughness law. this directive is in honour of daphne caruana galizia and her family, who have fought so much for it. we adopted also a recommendation to encourage member states to align their rules with the proposed eu law, including for domestic cases and in all proceedings. the recommendation also calls on member states to take a range of other measures, such as supporting, training and awareness-raising to fight against slapps. and we will go further. we are now preparing, together with commissioner breton, the media freedom act. the act will enshrine, for the first time in eu law, common safeguards to protect media pluralism and the editorial independence of the media. hand in hand with the legislation, we are also dedicating more eu funding to supporting media projects. we have just announced eur 8 million for cross—border journalism partnerships, and more will come. we support innovation and digital transformation as this is important for the sector to thrive in the long term. and, at the same time, with the digital markets act and the digital services act, we have new rules to better protect fundamental rights online and to ensure fairer digital markets. to sum up, the eu has never done so much to protect and promote media freedom and pluralism. this is clearly thanks to the strong support of the european parliament and i would like to thank you for being such a great ally in our common fight to defend our european values and our democracies. recent crises have showed the importance of standing for media freedom and pluralism and protecting our democracies.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, today we are here to honour and to protect the work of journalists. the job of a journalist is a brave job. a reporter in ukraine today is also a freedom fighter on the frontlines of russia’s aggression. dear journalists in kyiv and everywhere in ukraine, you who report on russian attacks and war crimes, you help shield millions of citizens in any of our european countries from foreign propaganda. all of you who write and work as war journalists, local fixers across ukraine, cameramen, producers, all of you working for the media that deliver news from the front, all of you provide your citizens with information that literally saves lives. you are heroes who might come under fire even if you wear the ‘press’ sign. you may be abducted or you might simply die because you do your work for a democratic society that we may enjoy in no small part thanks to free and independent media. journalists and journalism face different threats in different parts of europe. across the western balkans, journalists are exposed to verbal attacks and smear campaigns. this is a region of deeply polarised politics, where the notion of free and independent media is constantly challenged by the idea that journalists serve either the government or opposition politicians. quality journalism and quality media anywhere, however, are about the constant search for facts and the truth. we are not immune to attacks against journalists who seek to uncover the truth in eu member states. many reporters, anchors and well-known people in the media are constantly attacked online. women journalists especially are vulnerable to abuse on the internet. some of those who investigate corruption, the dark side of business and politics, have tragically paid the highest price for their work. daphne caruana galizia was killed in malta and ján kuciak and his fiancée, martina kušnírová, were brutally murdered in slovakia. we must bring to justice all perpetrators of crimes against journalists. the courage of those who produce and write the news for us is an invaluable part of the fabric of european democracy. it deserves our full attention and protection. as we continue to face russia’s brutal attack against ukraine, we must bluntly acknowledge that russian media outlets are tools in the kremlin’s war. disinformation kills. we must not allow any malicious actor to exploit our freedoms. across the european union, we must support independent and quality public service media for lively and free democratic debate. we must give support to organisations of independent journalists, but be vigilant about those who falsely present themselves as journalists. let us show zero tolerance towards attacks, harassment, violence and threats against journalists. we must swiftly work on the commission’s proposal on the safety of all these persons, including an anti-slapp instrument. we need to protect journalists and foster a culture where attacks are unacceptable. dear colleagues, today we are paying attention to journalists because it is their special day. let us work so that every day is special for journalism and media in europe. this is the only way forward for meaningful democracy and freedom.
i'm not going to tell you. instead of general ideological rhetoric, i would like to focus on a pragmatic reality, namely the reality of protecting journalists and human rights organizations from bullying, unjustified, life-damaging lawsuits, which are primarily the domain of the powerful, the rich and those with the financial means to defend themselves in this way either against investigative journalists or against some of their unfair activities being pointed out. it is undisputed that any person having standing to bring proceedings has the right to bring an action before the courts to enforce the protection of his rights and legitimate interests. however, this right cannot be absolute. this right cannot be abused to make bullying, unacceptable claims that make life unpleasant for the defendant. the commission, which has already proposed some of these measures, and the member states must take appropriate measures to this end. these are measures in the field of procedural law and in the field of the protection of journalists against physical attacks, in the field of criminal law. in my view, it is essential that such actions, which we simply cannot avoid, have the necessary elements of compulsion that are exceptional and different from other actions. first of all, the plaintiff should be represented by a lawyer, as is the case in administrative and other proceedings, because while it's true that rich people pay for a lawyer, nevertheless, the lawyer's status is in a way a fee that could somehow limit such bullying lawsuits. secondly, the laws on fees, on motions, where such a fee should be increased to the extent that no one can bring such actions at any time, would need to be amended. it wouldn't have made any difference. in the event of success, such a fee would be reimbursed. another very crucial point is that the relevant criminal codes must make it mandatory to hear such a case before it is brought, without the parties being involved in the proceedings, and that the defendant, and this is very important, in this particular case journalists or human rights organisations, should be entitled, by law, to free legal aid through the state legal aid centres. of course, then it's necessary to have more and more adjustments, but about two minutes is not enough. there's a lot to talk about. that's a matter of civil procedure. the inevitable. and then there's the danger of physical attack. this is already the domain of criminal law. it is essential that specialised teams are set up in the relevant police departments, as they are for various activities, drug crime, just another idea, related exclusively to this protection of journalists. i mean, i have to go. two minutes have passed. i could talk about it a lot.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you very, very much for this very rich and interesting debate. as, i think, many of you have mentioned, with this work the european union is pioneering: we are the first to take this endeavour upon us, to make this comprehensive legislative framework and to promote trust in a very promising technology. but the thing is that promoting trustworthy ai is a global endeavour. it is not something that can be done in europe alone. this is why we must complement our legislative work with an ambitious external agenda everywhere we go. we need to influence global standards so that they reflect democratic values – because fighting for that is also fighting for democracy as such. this is what we have done in several international forums, such as the oecd and unesco, and what we are now taking forward bilaterally with our like—minded partners, such as through the eu—us trade and technology council. there is one thing i think very characteristic for the debate today, and it is that dragoş tudorache was very right in his first takeaway from the work of the aida committee. ai is not about technology; ai is politics. the way we deal with technology reflects how we want our societies to develop. so it has indeed been a pleasure to be part of this, i think, very passionate, debate – a debate about how we would want to create societies that are inclusive, where people feel seen and heard and counted in, where we can live with the freedom of not being discriminated against or not being under surveillance by machines, in our lives, in our workplaces. i think this is a very promising starting point for the next chapter of our legislative procedure, but also for europe assessing itself in these global endeavours to be the creators of a human—centric, trustworthy, artificial intelligence. and, in that, i feel very encouraged with the debate today, so thank you very much.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. basically, i think we all realize one thing: we don't want to die in beauty here. values are important, but they must be balanced with the innovation of a technology, and that is what matters. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. we need better access to data, and by that i mean personal data, because not every artificial intelligence is going to do without personal data. we need the single market so we have a lot of homework to give you. we need the stronger, more robust digital infrastructure that you mentioned, the ecosystem of excellence, the ecosystem of trust, an ai industrial strategy with sustainable investments, but also clear regulations for ai in the area of security and stronger cooperation, including cybersecurity, etc. but we also need the unconditional will to survive digitally as europe, as the european union, and to lead the way. we need a strategy, a plan, a design and an implementation. we need a lot of money, talent, cyber security, the pooling of our forces in europe so that we can also achieve greatness, european projects and, of course, legal certainty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we need the spirit of our society to move forward, and for that we need political leadership that also rests on your shoulders. i would like to thank all those who have made this possible, and i hope that the vote will also indicate what we want and what we are giving you, so to speak, for implementation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 3 may 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. artificial intelligence is playing an increasingly important role in the economy and democracy. ai-based solutions are increasingly being used in our daily work and life. the use of this technology could in the future significantly improve efficiency, boost innovation and drive economic growth in many european countries. during this mandate we will for the first time regulate artificial intelligence horizontally, and the report by mr voss, which is the result of the work of a special committee set up to consider the future policy needs of the union in this area, is another step forward. however, i would like to stress that we need an even more innovation-friendly approach that recognises the role of intellectual property rights protection, as well as an experimental approach such as dedicated regulatory environments. at the same time, we must strike a balance between the need to implement new technologies and the implementation of environmental policy. i believe that the green deal and technology policy should complement each other. the presumption that the green deal should prevail over everything is not a sensible solution, because it threatens the future of our economies and our overall ability to achieve our goals, both technologically and ecologically. i believe that in the near future we will be able to develop legislation that will seek to maximize the use of this technology while protecting citizens from the risks associated with it.
in writing. the aim is to create human-centred ai that serves our people while respecting their privacy. the report encourages the use of more ai-based solutions. the commission will continue to support the development of the european research area (era) and its activities in the field of research and technological development. the commission will also continue to support the development of the european research area (era) and the european research area (era) in the context of the european research area (era) and the european research area (era) in the context of the european research area (era). but the european union needs to significantly increase its investment in ai as a matter of urgency if we are to remain competitive.
artificial intelligence (ai) is no longer science fiction, but is already a reality today - in everyday life too. ai applications control what music you listen to and what videos you watch online. they make sure that the food you eat isn't unnecessarily treated with pesticides, and they help decide on the loan for your dream home and the determination of your cancer diagnosis. ai, with its vast data fuels, powerful algorithms and vast computing power, has the potential to provide answers to the challenges we face today in virtually every industry: in the social media, in agriculture, in the financial services, in health care, in law enforcement. of course, we must be aware of the possible side effects. we cannot blindly rely on an algorithm that cannot be adequately explained, cannot be monitored, and is fed with extremely incomplete or clearly incorrect data and potentially leads to discrimination. ai will only succeed with a balanced legal framework that allows ai systems to develop and refine themselves using large amounts of data while providing safeguards that enable us to deal with the potential negative side effects.
we have the prime minister of italy, mario draghi, with us today. prime minister, let me start by thanking you for accepting our invitation to address the european parliament as part of our ‘this is europe’ debates where, together with european leaders, we discuss our common agenda for europe’s future. we know, dear colleagues, that prime minister draghi is a committed european who, as president of the european central bank, has already steered the eurozone out of a crisis that could have seriously undermined our monetary union. prime minister, it is largely thanks to your vision, your commitment and your steady hand that we got through. you gave confidence to our people and to our banks, and i have no doubt that we can rely on your expertise as europe again faces challenges of a different kind, but that are just as existential in nature. after the russian army’s illegal and unjustifiable invasion of ukraine, europe faces another ‘whatever it takes’ moment. we have seen unprecedented european coordination, solidarity and unity against this war, and this must remain the blueprint for us going forward, be it on further sanctions, on sending aid to ukraine, on disentangling ourselves from energy dependence on the kremlin, helping the millions forced to flee, or building a new security and defence union. prime minister, you guided your country through the worst of times, coming out from the pandemic stronger. we know that we must take stock of the lessons learned and ensure that we have the flexibility that we need to care for our populations. we must build our future in a sustainable manner that protects the next generation. we can do this, and i know that we will look to you for a way forward. prime minister, let me also thank italy and the italian people for your leadership on migration in the mediterranean. you have borne the responsibility thrust upon you in a humane and value—based approach, and it is now on us to ensure a way forward where italy and other states do not feel alone. next week, on europe day, we will receive the conclusions from the conference on the future of europe. the onus will be on us to listen and to act. in terms of responding to people’s demands on policy changes in health, climate, security and more, no suggestion for change should be off—limits because, if not now, then when?
president of the italian council of ministers. president metsola, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, i am very happy to be here in the heart of the cradle of european democracy. i would first like to pay tribute to the memory of david sassoli, who presided over the european parliament in very difficult years. during the pandemic, parliament continued to meet, debate, decide, as a testament to its institutional vitality and sassoli's leadership. sassoli has never stopped working on what he called in his last speech to the european council a 'new project of hope' for 'a europe that innovates, that protects, that illuminates'. this vision of europe is more necessary today than ever. i thank president metsola and all of you for your contribution to carrying this idea forward every day. the war in ukraine is putting the european union in the face of one of the most serious crises in its history. a crisis that is at once humanitarian, security, energy, economic, and that is occurring while our countries are still grappling with the consequences of the greatest health emergency in the last hundred years. the european response to the pandemic has been united, courageous, effective. scientific research has delivered, with unprecedented speed, vaccines capable of curbing contagion, of drastically reducing the severity of the disease. we've organized the largest vaccination campaign in recent history, which has saved lives, gotten boys and girls back into school, gotten the economy going again. we have approved the next generation eu, the first major project for the reconstruction of europe, financed by everyone, to meet everyone's needs. the same readiness and determination, the same spirit of solidarity must now guide us in the challenges ahead. the institutions that our predecessors built over the past decades have served the people of europe well, but they are inadequate to the reality that we face today. the pandemic and the war have called on the european institutions to assume responsibilities never assumed before. the geopolitical landscape is undergoing rapid and profound transformation. we need to move as quickly as possible. and we must ensure that the management of the crises we are experiencing does not lead us back to square one, but allows a transition to a more just and sustainable economic and social model. we need a pragmatic federalism, one that embraces all the areas affected by the transformations under way - from the economy to energy to security. i have spoken of pragmatic federalism, but i must add that our european values of peace, solidarity and humanity need to be defended now more than ever. and this defence is now more difficult than ever for individual states and will become increasingly difficult. we need not only a pragmatic federalism, but an ideal federalism. if this means starting a process which will lead to the revision of the treaties, then embrace it with courage and confidence. if we can draw strength from the tragic events of these years to take a step forward, if we can imagine a more efficient functioning of the european institutions which will allow us to find timely solutions to the problems of the citizens, then we can give them a europe in which they can identify with pride. russia's aggression against ukraine has called into question the european union's greatest achievement: peace in our continent. a peace based on respect for territorial boundaries, the rule of law, democratic sovereignty; a peace based on the use of diplomacy as a means of resolving crises between states; the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the violence of the russian army against innocent civilians. we must support ukraine, its government and its people, as president zelensky has asked and continues to ask us to do. in a war of aggression there can be no equivalence between the invader and the resistance. we want ukraine to remain a free, democratic, sovereign country. protecting ukraine means protecting ourselves, it means protecting the project of security and democracy that we have built together over the last 70 years. helping ukraine means above all working for peace. our priority is to achieve a ceasefire as soon as possible, to save lives and to allow those humanitarian interventions in favour of civilians which today remain very difficult. a truce would also give new impetus to the negotiations, which have so far failed to produce the desired results. europe can and must play a central role in fostering dialogue. we must do so because of our geography, which places us alongside this war, and therefore at the forefront of dealing with all its possible consequences. we must do so because of our history, which has shown us capable of building a stable and lasting peace, even after bloody conflicts. italy, as a founding country of the european union, as a country which believes deeply in peace, is ready to take the lead in reaching a diplomatic solution. already today war is having a profound impact on our countries. since the beginning of the conflict, some 5.3 million people have left ukraine for the european union - mostly women and children. this is more than double the number of refugees in the union at the end of 2020 approximately 2.5 million. italy believes in the european values of welcome and solidarity. we have welcomed over 105 000 ukrainian refugees, thanks to the generosity of families, volunteers, ngos, to whom i extend my deepest thanks. other countries including poland, romania, germany and slovakia have made even greater efforts. many refugees want to return home soon, and some have already begun to do so. however, we do not know how the conflict will develop or how long it will last. we must be prepared to continue our initial momentum so that ukrainian refugees can be better integrated into our societies. from an economic point of view, the conflict has caused instability in the functioning of global supply chains and volatility in the price of raw materials and energy. ukrainian food supplies have collapsed due to the devastation of war and the export blockades imposed by russia on black sea and azov sea ports. ukraine is the fourth largest foreign food supplier to the european union it sends us about half of our maize imports, and a quarter of our vegetable oils. russia and ukraine account for over a quarter of global wheat exports. nearly 50 countries of the world depend on them for more than 30 percent of their imports. in march, prices of cereals and other staple foods reached record highs. there is a strong risk that rising prices, coupled with the reduced availability of fertilisers, will produce food crises. according to fao, 13 million more people could suffer from hunger between 2022 and 2026 due to the war in ukraine. many countries, especially in africa and the middle east, are more vulnerable to these risks and may experience periods of political and social instability. we can't let that happen. our commitment through the development banks and multilateral financial institutions and our commitment on a bilateral basis must be maximum. as for energy, the price of crude oil, which fluctuated between $70 and $90 a barrel between december and january, is now around $105 after a peak of $130 in march. the price of gas on the european market is around 100 euros per megawatt hour about five times that of a year ago. these increases following the upturns seen before the conflict have pushed the inflation rate to levels not seen for decades. in the euro area, the price index rose by 7.5 per cent in april compared with a year ago, and is having a significant impact on household purchasing power and business output levels. the european economy is in a phase of slowdown: in the first three months of 2022, euro area gross domestic product grew by 0.2% compared to the last quarter of 2021. the international monetary fund forecasts that the european union will grow by 2.9 per cent this year, compared with 4 per cent estimated until recently. each of these crises would require a strong response from the european union. the sum of these factors requires a decisive acceleration of the integration process. in the coming months we must show the citizens of europe that we are capable of leading a europe that lives up to its values, its history and its role in the world. a stronger, more cohesive, more sovereign europe, able to take its future into its own hands, as chancellor merkel said some time ago. over the past 75 years, european integration has often been the best - practical and ideal - response to common challenges. the founding fathers of the european union realised that economic development and social progress were difficult to achieve by the resources of individual member states alone. they identified the supranational model as the only one capable of uniting the interests of the peoples of europe and of exerting influence on events that would otherwise have been beyond their reach. integration has been a gradual process, marked by crises and relaunch, by successes achieved despite internal divisions and sometimes in the face of extreme resistance. a result built "piece by piece, sector by sector", to quote robert schuman, because the european union could not be "born out of thin air, like an ideal city". europe responded to the trauma of the second world war by creating the first institutions for economic cooperation. i am thinking of the european union of payments, which helped to bring about a return to monetary stability and the resumption of trade, or the economic community of coal and steel, which abolished customs barriers and other obstacles to the free movement of goods in crucial sectors of the economy. the geopolitical tensions that arose from the suez crisis in '56 helped to accelerate the path to the treaties of rome. faced with the collapse of the bretton woods system in 1971, european countries reacted by establishing the monetary snake and then the european monetary system. the growing euroscepticism of the 1980s was met by the targeted programmes of intervention proposed by the delors commission and the single act of 1986. the end of the soviet union and the reunification of germany were followed by the signing of the maastricht treaty, the creation of monetary union and, finally, the enlargement of the european union to the east. the eurozone crisis in the early years of the last decade led to a strengthening and modernisation of economic institutions, starting with the european central bank. the pandemic, as i mentioned earlier, has brought us together and led to the creation of the next generation eu. you see, this long journey of integration has changed our lives for the better, because it has given us peace, prosperity and a social model to be proud of. the single market has not only given a boost to europe's economy in a difficult time, but it has also provided protection for consumers, workers and forms of social security that are unique in the world. we have built common democratic institutions, such as this parliament, in which we reach joint decisions and enforce respect for fundamental rights. we have made the european union not only an economic area but also a place for the defence of human rights and human dignity. it is a legacy we must not squander, we must not back down from. now is the time to take this path forward. the conference on the future of europe will conclude on 9 may, and the final declaration calls for us to be very ambitious. we want to be at the forefront of designing this new europe. in a geopolitical context that has suddenly become much more dangerous and uncertain, we must address the economic and social emergency and ensure the safety of our citizens. investment in defence must be made with a view to improving our collective capabilities as the european union and as nato. the last european council took an important decision by adopting the 'strategic compass', which we must implement quickly. but we must move quickly beyond these first steps and build effective coordination between defence systems. our security spending is about three times that of russia, but it's broken down into 146 defense systems. the united states has only 34. it is a profoundly inefficient allocation of resources, which hinders the building of a real european defence. strategic autonomy in defence is first and foremost achieved through greater efficiency in military spending in europe. it is appropriate to convene a conference to rationalize and optimize our investment in military spending. the construction of a common defence must also be accompanied by a unified foreign policy and effective decision-making mechanisms. we must move beyond the principle of unanimity, which gives rise to an intergovernmental logic of cross-cutting vetoes, and move towards decisions taken by qualified majority. a europe which is able to take decisions in a timely manner is a more credible europe in the eyes of its citizens and the world. the first step must be to speed up the process of enlargement. the full integration of countries with european aspirations does not threaten the survival of the european project. it's part of his realization. italy supports the immediate opening of accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia, in line with the decision taken by the european council in march 2020. we want to give new impetus to the negotiations with serbia and montenegro and ensure that the legitimate expectations of bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo are given the utmost attention. we are in favour of the accession of all these countries and we want ukraine to join the european union. we need to follow the entry path we've drawn, but we also need to proceed as expeditiously as possible. the solidarity shown towards the ukrainian refugees must also push us towards a truly european management of migrants who come from other contexts of war and exploitation. more generally, it is necessary to define an effective european mechanism for managing migration flows, which goes beyond the logic of the dublin treaty. we need to strengthen and make the return agreements really effective, but we also need to strengthen the legal channels of entry into the european union. in particular, we must pay greater attention to the mediterranean, given its strategic location as a bridge to africa and the middle east. we cannot look at the mediterranean merely as a border area, on which to erect barriers. the mediterranean is home to many young countries, ready to pour their enthusiasm into their relationship with europe. with them, the european union must build a real partnership, not only economic but also political and social. the mediterranean must be a pole of peace, prosperity and progress. energy policy is an area in which the mediterranean countries can and must play a key role for the future of europe. europe is facing a profound geopolitical reorientation, which will increasingly shift its strategic axis to the south. the war in ukraine has shown the deep vulnerability of many of our countries to moscow. italy is one of the member states most exposed: in fact, about 40 percent of the natural gas we import comes from russia. we have no coal, we have no nuclear power and we have almost no oil. such energy dependence is economically unwise and geopolitically dangerous. italy intends to take all the necessary decisions to defend its security and that of europe. we have supported the sanctions that the european union has decided to impose on russia, including those in the energy sector. we will continue to do so with the same conviction in the future. in the last few weeks we have moved with the utmost speed and determination to diversify our gas supplies. and we've taken important simplification steps to accelerate the production of renewable energy, which is essential to making our growth more sustainable. the reduction in fossil fuel imports from russia makes it inevitable that europe will look to the mediterranean to meet its needs. i am referring to gas deposits as a transitional fuel, but above all to the enormous opportunities offered by renewables in africa and the middle east. the countries of southern europe, and italy in particular, are strategically placed to harness this energy production and to act as a bridge to the northern countries. our centrality tomorrow depends on the investments we can make today. at the same time, we must find solutions now to protect households and businesses from the rising cost of energy. moderating fuel bills and prices is also a way to make any sanctions more sustainable over time. since the beginning of the crisis, italy has been calling for a european ceiling on the price of gas imported from russia. russia sells almost two thirds of its natural gas exports to the european union largely through pipelines which cannot be redirected to other buyers. our proposal would allow us to use our bargaining power to reduce the exorbitant costs which today weigh on our economies. at the same time, this measure would reduce the sums we send to president putin every day, which inevitably finance his military campaign. we also want to look at the structural mechanism of electricity price formation, which depends on the cost of producing the most expensive energy source, which is usually gas. even in normal times, the production costs of energy from fossil sources are higher than those of renewable sources. this is a problem that is bound to get worse over time. as the share of renewable energy in our energy mix increases, we will have prices that are less and less representative of the generation cost of the entire market if we continue to have this system. in this period of very high volatility in the gas market, the price difference is disproportionate. the pressure on the gas market has been passed on to the electricity market, although the cost of producing renewables, from which we now obtain a substantial share of our energy, has remained very low. in italy, in the first four months of this year, the price of electricity has quadrupled compared to the same period last year, with a very severe impact on the economy. and the italian government, but also other governments, have reacted strongly to protect businesses and families, especially the most vulnerable. italy alone has spent about 30 billion euros this year alone. the emergency management of these surcharges has many limitations, first and foremost the sustainability for the public budget. the problem is systemic and must be solved by structural solutions, which break the link between gas and electricity prices. the problem of energy costs will be the focus of the next european council. strong and immediate decisions are needed for the benefit of all european citizens. the various crises arising from the conflict in ukraine come at a time when europe already faced enormous spending requirements. the ecological and digital transitions require us to make unwavering investments. to these must be added the costs of war, which we must face immediately, if we are to prevent our continent from sinking into recession. in both cases, these are asymmetrical costs, affecting different sections of the population and different sectors of production and therefore requiring different compensatory measures. no national budget can support these efforts on its own. no country can be left behind. it is a question of social peace on our continent, of our ability to support sanctions, especially in those countries which for historical reasons are more dependent on russia. the european union has already devised some useful instruments to govern these challenges. these are the responses we have put in place during the pandemic and which have ensured a rapid and widespread economic recovery for the european union. we need to build on that success, and adapt these same tools to the circumstances that we have in front of us. sure the european temporary support instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment in an emergency has provided loans to member states to support the labour market. the european union should broaden its scope to provide countries that request it with new funding to mitigate the impact of energy surcharges. i am referring to measures to reduce the cost of living, but also to temporary support for the lowest wages, for example as we did yesterday, with compensation measures for the lowest wages. these have the advantage of protecting the purchasing power of households, especially the most vulnerable. the use of a lending facility such as sure would avoid the use of non-repayable grants to pay for national current expenditure measures. at the same time, in a period of rising interest rates, it would provide member states with weaker public finances with a cheaper alternative to borrowing on the market. we could thus broaden the scope of support measures and at the same time limit the risk of financial instability. this is a measure which should be put in place very quickly, because we have been in this situation for eight, nine or ten months, to enable governments to intervene immediately to support the economy. as regards long-term investment in areas such as defence, energy, food security and industry, the model is the next generation eu. the system of periodic payments, linked to timely checks on the achievement of objectives, provides a virtuous mechanism for controlling the quality of expenditure. spending the resources allocated to us well is essential to our credibility with the citizens and our european partners who, as i have said many times, have agreed to tax their citizens in order to help italy and other countries which have used these grants. good government is not just about responding to the crises of the moment. it is to move quickly to anticipate what is to come. the founding fathers of europe have shown us how to make democracy effective on our continent in its progressive transformations. european integration is the best ally we have to face the challenges that history has set before us. today, as in all the decisive turning points since the end of the war, we need determination, vision, but above all unity. i'm sure we'll find them again, together. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all, my congratulations. who else than the italian prime minister should start the new dialogue between the european parliament and the member states with this new framing of ‘this is europe’? italy was always a driver for european integration. i want to mention also alcide de gasperi and i also want to mention david sassoli. a lot of european leaders have come from italy and italy needs a strong europe, but also europe needs a strong italy. thank you, dear prime minister draghi, not only for being here today, but also for your brilliant work as an ecb president in the last decade. i want to thank you, first of all, for your leadership in the last period of time as prime minister of italy. italy was the first target of the pandemic, and finally italy reacted in a very well organised way. it became a kind of role model in managing the pandemic on the european level. it was the rrf, you mentioned it. my party, the european people’s party, with angela merkel, with ursula von der leyen, also i want to mention antonio tajani and other friends – we showed that we are ready to invest in solidarity on the european union level after the pandemic, to restart our economy, to give a good idea about the future of our economy and our european solidarity approach. italy is the country which gets the biggest share of this rrf and you are showing that this money is well spent. you combined this with the reform agenda in italy and that is great because, for the long run, a good implementation of the recovery and resilience fund gives us on european level arguments for the continuation of the european solidarity approach. and also for ukraine, italy had a clear position in this conflict. so your clear leadership is good for italy, but also good for europe in crisis. we need more than ever before this kind of leadership and towards, to quote alcide de gasperi, he said once, ‘a politician looks to the next election; a statesman looks to the next generation’, and europe needs more statesmen and less tactics in europe. when we describe now the challenges of today – you mentioned a few of them – i could sum up my contribution today and say, ‘well great, let’s do it now’, because we have a lot of these speeches and we see ambitious approaches from our leaders on the council side. when i would frame, let me say, the general consideration from my party’s point of view, then i want to underline that europe must avoid another lost generation. we need a europe for the youth. we have to shape a europe of hope and not of fear, and we have to shape a europe of opportunities and not of limitations – and that’s why you mentioned it. the outcome of the conference on the future of europe is, for us, a motivating starting signal to now go further. and that’s why let me really underline, let me be clear, that i am really happy that you today, as one of the first leaders on the council side, you are outspoken but clear that after this conference you are ready for a convention, indeed a new power architecture for the european union. thank you so much for this leadership. when we speak about the concrete points, then for sure foreign affairs and defence is a main pillar. we experience clear momentum in the european union. citizens are together showing solidarity with ukraine friends and we have to speed up now our efforts to build up a european defence union, integrated for sure into nato. you spoke about a pragmatic federalisation of the european union, federal system of europe. i want to give you an example. on this defence, the long-term idea is a european army, no doubt about this, but in the short term we should focus on european added value. for example, on cyber defence, it’s obvious that we are much stronger if we do it together. or on a missile defence system, it’s obvious that we can protect our airspace together much more effectively than if we do it at national level. so let’s focus on the concrete things. we need these kind of flagship projects now to make things possible. unvestments would be much easier, much cheaper in the future – you mentioned this, and also for our military, it would be much more effective. i want to underline a second point, which is important for us, and that is we can only have a good future for our european union if we create growth again. economic strength is the real power base for today’s strengthened european union. and as a central banker, you know that a good future needs a union of growth, but not a union of further debt. and as a family father, you also know that the most important thing for the future of the next generation is opportunities and not additional burden. so that’s why when we speak about the economic model for the future, we face fundamental changes. we haven’t spoken so much in the last weeks about china, about what is happening on the global market, but we know things are fundamentally changing. we speak about independence in today’s european union, but this means also to have a little bit less globalisation, which was the foundation for our economic success in the last decades. so that’s why we have to rechange and reorganise the economic model, including on a global level. and that’s why we are strongly fighting for a single market for the free world on the global stage. we have to bring together australia, india, japan, all those who believe in our values on the economic base that can create a precondition for the growth for tomorrow. and finally, on migration, let me underline that there are no italian, greek or spanish migrants. there are only european migrants. it’s a common european challenge, and that’s why the european parliament is ready for a solution. you know that we are waiting for the council to solve the legislative blockade on the council side. let’s go now after the ukraine experience for solving this problem. ladies and gentlemen, we hear today a leader who was ambitious for the future of europe. now it’s a moment to implement things. now it’s a moment to do it, to make it real. that is what brings us the trust and the support from our citizens. let’s use this debate, thanks to roberta metsola’s initiative, for creating exactly the precondition for the delivery process.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, mr prime minister, welcome to this house, which is the house of european democracy. i am very grateful to you for your words about our dear president sassoli, who, as you have rightly said, represented the best of the european spirit, and we will therefore work on continuing his legacy, fully aware of the importance of that work. as you have well described in your speech, we are facing a series of crises that have been going on for several years and which are now being exacerbated by the war in ukraine. these are not easy challenges, but our best weapon at this time is unity and determination. we've seen it in the response to the pandemic, both in its health dimension and in its economic and social impacts. with unity and solidarity we were able to bring nextgenerationeu forward and now the key to facing the consequences of russia's war against ukraine is again unity and determination. almost ten years ago, when you were president of the european central bank, in the midst of the sovereign debt crisis, and when some were predicting the collapse of the euro, you uttered three words that have made history: 'whatever it takes'. and that same spirit is what we must demonstrate now in the face of putin's threat to our values. as ten years ago, the answer to overcome this crisis has to be more integration, because sharing our sovereignty is how we are stronger and more masters of our own destiny as well. but to keep building this house we need to put more bricks. we urgently need an energy union, a fiscal union, a health union, a defence union. and we must go forward and work for it, because this project of peace and freedom, which has been growing over the last decades and has established a friendship and solidarity between our countries and between our citizens, is still not enough. since that schuman declaration, the union's objective has also been to contribute to peace and the development of our values and to international relations based on law, human dignity and multilateralism. unfortunately, the desire of ukrainian men and women to be part of this project has come at a great cost to them. unlike the soviet union, the european union does not impose itself. the european union does not force, the european union does not dominate, but attracts by its promise of the future, by its values of freedom and human dignity, as the protesters of the maidan in 2013 cried. we cannot therefore close the door on any european country. supporting ukraine's self-defence and legitimate aspirations requires us to rethink our internal policies in the union, our aim of moving forward in a transition towards more environmentally and humanly sustainable economic development. we cannot give up this objective. it is urgent to agree on an energy policy that will free us from fossil fuel imports and that will support renewable energy sources by diversifying sources, which must be accompanied by measures that also guarantee affordable prices for businesses and households. let us not forget that we also need to think about the future of young people, who need decent jobs and access to housing, who need to think that their future can be better than that of their parents and that of previous generations. we need to send a message of optimism to these young generations who are looking forward to a bigger and better europe. the citizens have told us loud and clear during the process of the conference on the future of europe: they want more social policies and they want to reduce poverty. and for that, it is essential to extend the suspension of tax rules over time, because without public investment we will not be able to meet our proposals, nor our support for ukraine, nor our support for refugees, nor the sanctions we have agreed on, nor will we be able to meet our roadmap for a just transition and the phasing out of fossil fuels. mr draghi, we count on you in the council to advocate realistic fiscal policies for the times we live in. and we also need to address an issue that is totally unacceptable at this time: that there are people who are getting rich at the expense of families suffering. there are companies which, with the rise in the price of energy, are making exorbitant profits at the cost, i insist, of many families falling into poverty and not even being able to pay the electricity bills and therefore something must be done with these profits that have fallen from the sky to prevent this injustice. we can and must go ahead with our project, but always with dignity and well-being at the heart of our policies. because our union is not against anyone, it never has been. we will say it again and again for putin to hear, but above all for the russian people to hear. let us all say it loud and clear: we will do whatever is necessary to secure the future of our european union.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president draghi, welcome to the european parliament. with you at the head of your government and paolo gentiloni at the european commission, it can be said that italy is once again committed to europe, and that it is fully aware of its responsibilities as a founding member and a third economic power of the union. if there is one area, mr president, where italy has not only assumed its share of responsibility, but more than its share of responsibility in europe, it is the reception of migrants. for many years, italy, the frontline country facing the mediterranean, has felt it had a moral duty to welcome the european union, without being able to benefit from the necessary solidarity of its european allies. and i am glad to say that this parliament, already in the previous legislature, was prepared to do what you are asking for, with a very large majority, to go beyond the dublin rules. it is really necessary that we move beyond the doctrine of unanimity in the council so that we can decide, as you say, by qualified majority, including in the matter of migration, where this is already the case in reality. whatever it takes: for these three words, then at the head of the european central bank, vous aviez pris la mesure de lenjeu. faced with attacks from the financial markets, the euro had to be saved at any cost. with the pandemic, the 'what's the cost' has become the alpha and omega of economic policy in the union. saving lives, all while supporting workers and businesses in the face of the repercussions of the crisis, whatever the price. such was the ambition. today, you have said, this is putin's invasion of ukraine that tests our determination. once again, the european union must show itself ready to do whatever is necessary to come to the aid of the ukrainians and ensure our indispensable energy autonomy. italy is also exemplary in that it acts in a spirit of unity alongside its european allies, and this despite, as you have said, its massive and exaggerated dependence on russia. unlike others, she has understood that this war is the moment when the european union must prove that it can become a geopolitical power. in the immediate future, italy's efforts to diversify its sources of supply in fossil fuels are understandable. but, you have said to yourself, there is no long-term solution. only the transition to renewable energy and energy security can ensure our energy independence in the long term, all of which will enable us to meet our share of the climate challenge. and on that, i listened to you, i had the impression that we shared the conviction, but when i hear your minister of the environment pleading, like a monomaniac, for the arrival of nuclear power in italy, while this energy has been rejected massively by the italian people barely ten years ago, i understand it no more. and i mean, maybe you can refute that, that your government would call into question the main building renovation programme, the superecobonus 110%, even though the european commission takes it as an example of good practice. i remember that in our many exchanges, the mario draghi central banker refused to integrate the climate constraint into his monetary policy, on the grounds that it was within the competence of the policy. i listened to you and i am glad to hear that mario draghi, who has become the head of the italian government, has heard the message: it is up to political leaders to show leadership, and the energy transition is an imperative not only climate, but also geopolitics. to finance this transition, we need colossal means. you have rightly called for a reform of the budgetary rules, but we must go further and move faster, and finally achieve a genuine budgetary union. there is still no doubt that the member states as a whole will succeed in making the european union the world leader in ecological and solidarity transition and a respected geopolitical power. we therefore need common loans, reimbursed by common taxes to finance common projects. the nextgenerationeu stimulus plans, of which your country is the prime beneficiary, are the prototype of such a budgetary union. i would like to say that the greatest service that italy can render to the european project today is to make this plan a success and ensure its continuity. i am also pleased, on behalf of the green group, to hear you pleading with us and engaging with us and the citizens present at the heart of the conference on the future of europe for a reform of the european treaties. mr president, this is what it takes, this is what is indispensable to the pragmatic and idealistic federalism you are calling for. president draghi, your political capital in your country and within the union is undeniably great. i encourage you to continue to mobilise unreservedly for the european union to be a key player in the 21st century. i say to you: go!
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr metsola, for his report and for the work he has done. as you have said, we are facing one of the most critical moments in european history, with a war a few kilometres away, which calls for a strong, thoughtful but above all credible response to the dark period we are facing. unfortunately, in recent weeks we have had to see that the initial conviction that we are strong and united european member states, institutions and leaders has been dissolved as a result, in our view, of past and present strategic errors in the construction of our european system which continue to make us weak, inefficient and above all vulnerable to blackmail. we must work through these mistakes before we look to the future. today, we must reflect on the choices we made in the past. we need to find new solutions to old problems and we need to do so quickly. dependence on countries like russia has been a political decision for the past few decades. we have made our prosperity dependent on cheap raw materials and energy, and therefore have no control over production levels, risking the paralysis of entire economic sectors, but the strategic autonomy we all invoke today will not exist until we fundamentally change our industrial development model and our socioeconomic model. with only a few days to go until 1 may, i would like to draw attention to the issue of work and to recall that, as regards wages and purchasing power, the strategic security of the union requires that certain basic products are no longer produced in a single country outside our borders but on european soil. and we know that there will be a price to pay for this, which is an inevitable increase in costs. so - and you know this well as an economist - economic equilibrium will require that it is possible to pay them more and that these goods are also usable by the same workers who will have to be paid better. unfortunately, the levelling down that we've seen during the period of runaway globalization has to be reversed first and foremost for reasons of national security. but first, i think we need to be clear on one thing: for this reversal to be sustainable, we should all think in terms of a race to the top, demand quality, support the cost and of course demand the return. today we are seeing that we must become more independent in our supply arrangements, but i would urge everyone not to repeat the mistakes of the past. the shift from dependence on russia to dependence on china, for example, cannot be considered a winning strategy. the highest officials of the union must reconsider the decisions of the past and reflect on the answers to the enormous questions that the dramatic conflict in ukraine has posed to us. is this still the right direction to take? has it been wise to rely on the leadership of a single country to chart the political and strategic course of an entire continent? is it really necessary to insist on proposing ideological recipes for real problems? what is needed now is more pragmatism and less ideology, more concrete action and less announcements on the issues you have touched upon - employment, energy, environment and defence - in order to find a solution the eu can refer to the energy issue. as we are seeing, energy mix varies from country to country, and needs and lifestyles vary depending on the capital city we are in. i hope that this state of affairs, which is both a reality and a metaphor, will finally lead this european institution to abandon the rhetoric of 'one size fits all' which in many cases has made the achievement of the european project itself an obstacle and not a resource as it should be. it's not a crime to admit mistakes and change course, but it has to be done in time. i conclude, president draghi, because the difficulty of the moment brings with it an opportunity to change things. you mentioned it when you spoke of the european treaties, which are the end point, but there are so many small things we can do together first. i hope that the union, like our country, will follow the good sense of this renewed approach to dealing with the problems affecting our countries and europe as a whole. we'll always be on that.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gentiloni, president draghi, i too would like to welcome you to this parliament on behalf of our group. at a very complex and difficult time, it is certainly necessary to call for the unity that has been shown by all, and by you in particular, who represent, even in the context of strong and clear condemnation of what is happening, a strength of the western institutions. on the one hand, there is a human tragedy, a disaster, together with a strong attack on the values of freedom, democracy and peace, which cannot merit any kind of doubt or perplexity, which is why we have never had any doubts, as a group of conservatives and at the same time as a party of conservatives, to strongly support this line and this action. i say this because this is the starting point for a reflection which is also taking place at national level, where there may have been some hesitation, mr president, i am sure we have not, whereas we have given our full support to support in this direction by taking serious and responsible action. but it is also an opportunity to think critically. the idea of being united and looking to the future without thinking about what has happened in the past cannot pass, it is wrong because we risk making the same mistakes and therefore it is necessary, following precisely his pattern, his discourse, to think about some essential points. we are certainly not - i use a euphemism - enthusiastic about the work of the conference on the future of europe, which is likely to be a mere self-celebration. we also believe that the calls that have been made on issues such as the need for a central role in the mediterranean and africa are at odds with the reality of what we have seen in recent days, in recent months, in recent years, an increasingly greater presence of russia, china and turkey, thanks to the embarrassments and mistakes that have been made in europe. it is equally important to reflect on the errors which have led to a lack of independence on strategic issues, which have seen industrial policy increasingly relocated in the absence of a capacity for autonomy in terms of energy, agriculture and food. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the issue of immigration. the narrative of those years has fallen, because we see today that those countries which were held responsible for the failure of the agreement are the main countries which opened their borders, their arms and their hearts to the real immigration of refugees, women and children fleeing war. we must make these considerations if we are to have a real analysis of the perspective and we must also make them with two proposals, because we do not have the criticism as an end in itself. we are capable and used to making proposals. you are very authoritative and credible in this assembly. we are asking you very strongly, i am asking you as a member of the european parliament, as the chairman of a group, but i am also asking you as an italian. we are making two concrete proposals. the first is to put in place strong, concrete strategic action, as you said, to deal with the issue of sanctions, which must be backed up by an adequate compensation fund that takes account of the needs and requirements of individual countries from the energy point of view, but also and above all from the point of view of exports, which is one of the fundamental aspects that risks bringing a country like ours to its knees. and secondly, in the last few days, as part of the national political debate, giorgia meloni proposed to you the amendment of the national recovery and resilience plan, an instrument which, unfortunately, although just started, is already old. article 21 of the rfg provides that in exceptional cases it may be possible to take action to modify the organisation and the choices which have been made in this context. well, it's a tool for pandemics, for economic recovery, for war, what's more extraordinary than trying to find solutions and change the structure of this tool to meet real needs? it's not a national thing. you mentioned, as many have, that italy is the main beneficiary of these resources here in europe and that is where we need a strong response, because the success or failure of the italian pnrr will be the success or failure of a strategy along these lines. and since we are not used to the worse the better, we strongly ask you to evaluate this proposal in the interests not only of italy but also of the future prospects of young people, citizens and european businesses.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the madam president, prime minister draghi! the italian government is taking decisive action against russian oligarchs, freezing their assets and assets. but to avoid the cost of maintaining the frozen assets, the assets must be seized, expropriated and put to other uses. i want the oligarchs' villas to be made available to ukrainian refugee children, their yachts to be made available for community recreation and the prototype cars to be made available for public transport. they're levying a crisis profit tax on energy companies. bravo! crisis winners must be asked to come to the cashier. but if i were your treasury secretary, my advice to you would be that even pandemic winners like bigtech and big pharma should be taking their surpluses to the state. and that goes for the winners of the war, the arms industry. they are calling for a reform of the european debt brake, i.e. the stability and growth pact. but here the german federal government in particular is on the brakes, just as this federal government is only reluctant to act against russian oligarchs and is afraid of taxing the winners of the crisis. yes, prime minister draghi, this debate is called "this is europe". let us also look together at the political history of the recent financial and economic crisis, a history in which you played a prominent leading role. some called you super mario back then, some called you a supervillain. you were president of the ecb when the ecb turned off the money tap to the government of alexis tsipras in greece because it had resisted the policy of austerity and cuts. the banking crisis was paid for by the workers, the pensioners, the patients, the recipients of social benefits. everything and everywhere was cut down. and when the troika began its devastating activity in greece, the greek public debt stood at about 150% of gdp. the italian public debt today is, as you know better than i do, almost 160%. and now imagine with me, just for a moment, that someone would come up with the absurd idea of subjecting italy to the same brutal austerity as was done to greece. they would rightly oppose it politically. and then mrs lagarde, the ecb, turns the money faucet on you overnight. italy would be the one to blame. that was your big historical mistake. and in doing so you did great damage to european democracy at the time. in the eyes of the people, whatever it takes was only about saving the banks and the big investors. but europe will have a good future if there is a whatever it takes to protect against the exploding prices of energy, rents and foodstuffs, so that the crisis and inflation do not eat away at wages and pensions, a whatever it takes to protect the climate and democracy from the authoritarian right. in short, whatever it takes for people and planet.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president draghi, welcome back to the european parliament. during the pandemic, we discovered how much europe can do for its citizens, and as you rightly pointed out, with the next generation eu we have saved our economy and created the conditions for a new start. then with sure we allocated billions to help the unemployed and the precarious. of course, it wasn't easy. there were many european leaders who were sceptical about the measures to be taken, but solidarity and unity prevailed and today, precisely because of european unity, putin has not yet gotten what he wanted in ukraine, but beware, we have not gotten what we wanted either, which is peace. ladies and gentlemen, after more than two months of this conflict, the time has come to save the ukrainian people from further death and suffering by the force of diplomacy. the right of ukraine to defend itself is sacrosanct, but let us not forget that our real ultimate goal must be peace. and then at the same time we take advantage of these difficult months and we start to work concretely towards energy independence from russian gas and oil. we're fighting the energy pandemic with the same tools we used during the healthcare pandemic. we replicate the success of the recovery fund and approve an energy recovery fund: this is the proposal of the five star movement to maximise the development of renewable energy. the sun is our gas and the wind is our oil, but as you know very well, president draghi, not all countries have the financial leverage to trigger the necessary investments. we need europe's firepower and we ask you to insist on this at the next european council because our credibility is at stake in the matter of energy. and i too, like the president of the green group, mr lamberts, call on you to make the success of the 110% super bonus, which the european commission has openly praised, a european success, while it is shameful that, while the oil giants are racking up profits worth billions of dollars, one in seven citizens in italy cannot pay their electricity and gas bills because they are too expensive. the galloping inflation is taking away the purchasing power of families and all this is happening while wages are stagnant and then we wonder why europeans are not having more children. we have a social equity problem which must be countered by a european minimum wage. president draghi, we agree with you when you talk about reforming the dublin regulation, we need solidarity, responsibility always, as demonstrated in the reception of ukrainian refugees. i would also like to remind you that this house, thanks also to the contribution of the five star movement, voted four legislative proposals from the waste package. european standards do not provide for the indiscriminate use of incinerators. the european union's flagship is called the circular economy, let's apply it in italy too. finally, mr president, today is world press freedom day. let's show that we're proud of our values. we are officially demanding, as europe does, the release and freedom of julian assange. for him, for the ukrainian people and for all oppressed citizens in the world, the european union is the land of freedom and peace. ladies and gentlemen, after more than two months of this conflict, the time has come to save the ukrainian people from further death and suffering by the force of diplomacy. the right of ukraine to defend itself is sacrosanct, but let us not forget that our real ultimate goal must be peace. at the same time, we are making the most of these difficult months and are beginning to work concretely towards energy independence from russian gas and oil. we're fighting the energy pandemic with the same tools we used during the healthcare pandemic. we're replicating the success of the recovery fan of approve, an energy recovery fund. this is the proposal of the five star movement to maximise the development of renewable energy. the sun is our gas, the wind is our oil. but as you well know, president draghi, not all states have the financial leverage to trigger the necessary investments. we need europe's firepower and we ask you to insist on this at the next european council because our credibility is at stake in the matter of energy. and i, as president of the greens, would like to invite you to make the success of the 110% super bonus, which the european commission has openly praised, a european success. while it is shameful that while the oil giants are amassing billions of dollars in profits, one out of seven citizens in italy cannot pay their electricity and gas bills because they are too expensive. rising inflation is robbing households of their purchasing power. all this while wages are stagnant. and then we wonder why europeans don 't have more children ? we have a social equity problem which must be countered by a european minimum wage. president draghi, do we agree with you when you talk about reforming the dublin regulation? solidarity and responsibility are needed, as you have always shown in the reception of ukrainian refugees. i would also like to remind you that this house, thanks also to the contribution of the five star movement, voted four legislative proposals in the waste package. european standards do not provide for the indiscriminate use of incinerators. the european union's flagship is called the circular economy. we also apply it in italy. finally, the president. i'm finished. today is world press freedom day. let's show that we're proud of our values. we are officially demanding as europe the release and freedom of julian assange. for him, for the ukrainian people, for all oppressed citizens of the world. the european union is the land of freedom and peace. thank you, sir. thank you, sir. mr glenn close to speech, which vice-president giovanni floris concludes. but first of all, i would like to thank all the leaders for the words and expressions of esteem and appreciation that you have had for my country. i think these are very important expressions. i must say, i was surprised and moved. so, thank you again. i would like to thank the president of the european parliament for this opportunity, for this opportunity to meet her for the first time since i left the ecb and therefore have not had the opportunity for three years.
president of the italian council of ministers. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the group leaders for the words and expressions of esteem and appreciation you have had for my country. i think these are very important expressions. i must say, i was surprised and moved. so, thank you again. i would like to thank the president of the european parliament for this opportunity, this opportunity to meet for the first time since i left the ecb, so it has been three years since i had the opportunity to speak and exchange views with the european parliament. two or three specific points before we arrive at what i believe is a shared vision of the aims and objectives of our european vision. two or three specific points: italy will be in favour of an embargo on all fossil fuels. as i said in my speech, we have supported the sanctions that the european union has decided to impose on russia, including those in the energy sector, and we will continue to do so with the same conviction in the future. we must do something, but it is not enough to support sanctions. we must work to become independent of russian gas. we have done so and we will continue to do so. we have moved with remarkable speed to diversify our sources of supply and to accelerate investment in renewables at a pace that was not expected last year. the measures taken yesterday by the government also lead to a liberalization of the permitting processes for the installation of renewable energy, because this is the only obstacle that exists today in italy, but i believe also in many european countries. these are the permitting processes for renewable energy installations. i think we made a very important step forward yesterday with regard to italy. companies that made profits and poor families, no doubt. companies that have been in the electricity business and the fossil fuel import business have made incredible profits. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the same is happening to companies in italy and other countries that have imported fossil fuels. our government yesterday decided to renew the taxation of these extra profits of companies that imported and produced different types of energy. the overall taxation has now reached 25 percent of this definition of extra profits that the government has given. in essence, this is a total of some 11 billion between the first and the second measures. and so we have been able to give a flat check, a one-size-fits-all check of 200 euros to 28 million people, to those of the 28 million people, that is to say pensioners and employees, who earn little. all those who are in the lowest or lowest bracket, i.e. who earn up to 35 000 euros a year, will get this check equally for all. so a very progressive measure, of course, that rewards the lower income brackets a lot and that compensates in part, in some cases largely, for the loss of purchasing power that these families have had due to inflation. you see, this is a way of helping the poorest families without necessarily, as it were, undermining the soundness of the public budget. this is very important for us because, as you know, our budget requires special care. second point on the climate. this government was born, as i recall in a speech in parliament, as an ecological government. so it's making climate, the green transition and also the digital transition the cornerstone. in that sense, i have to say that our minister of the environment has been extraordinary. he did what was hardly imaginable even a year and a half ago. he made extraordinary arrangements. we may disagree about the 110% super bonus and we may disagree about the validity of this provision. i will give you just one example. the cost of efficiency has more than tripled with the 110% measures. the prices of the investments needed to carry out the restructuring are more than tripled, because 110 per cent in itself takes away the incentive to negotiate the price and so this is the result. in any case, things are going on in parliament, the government has done what it could do and our minister is very good. thirdly: changes to the pnrr. then we must understand each other. first of all, the first problem with the pnrr is to ensure that the construction sites for public works and public works remain open and that those for new tenders are opened. to this end, yesterday the government allocated an initial 3 billion to enable businesses to recover 90 percent of the increase in raw material prices. this measure has been very well received, not only by the industries producing these infrastructures which are involved in public works, but by everyone in general. so this is the path we've chosen. so before we talk about changing the pnrr, let's make it work. the pnrr is not old. he's not old at all. we met all the objectives. we'll continue to do that now, at the end of june. we will do the same on december 30. he's not old. so there are points and if we need to change certain things in certain points, in certain sectors, specific investments, but we are not talking about revolutions in the pnrr. there are investments which may have to be modified and for which special action will be required. those are the three specific things i wanted to say. but let's now look at the big picture of this exchange. i believe that this exchange is characterized by a deep sharing. shared visions, shared projects, shared ideals. the union's challenges are many, we have seen, the first of them all. i agree with what the last group leader probably said, and he is not a group leader, i do not know. this is undoubtedly the main objective towards which the european union must move, towards which this government, my government, is moving, but there are many others and the answer to all of them is: the european union is a great ally. all of them. i said pragmatic federalism, what does that mean? it means that for many of these challenges, the only way to deal with them is to work together. tackling them together is not just about financing them together. because you think, i'm a banker, so i always think that. but that's not it. to tackle them together means to design them together, to supervise them together, to make sure that the money is well spent all together. italy is deeply aware of this and feels, as you know, because i have said it many times, very responsible for the good use of these funds which have been allocated for the next generation. but it will also be the case for decisions on energy, public investment, the green transition and digital. these are challenges of scale. you know that the green transition and the digital transition have been taken into account, so the need between now and 2030, the financial need for the entire european union is about 2 trillion euros. so these are not figures that can be addressed with national budgets. so we have two objectives: one is strategic autonomy as far as defence is concerned. we have said many times that a strong europe also means a strong nato. but for strategic autonomy, as i said in my speech and i say again, the first step is to make our military spending more efficient. i repeat: three times the cost of russia. it is not conceivable that anything can be done until military spending is made more efficient, more coordinated. that is why i have, as it were, called for a conference on this objective. i share the need, and this is the experience of the last few years, to achieve autonomy also for certain productions which are crucial for our continent. so, for example, microprocessors. it's one kind of thing, but there are other productions that are crucial in the production chains, that actually prove to be essential and for which strategic autonomy proves to be essential. the war, and even earlier, has shown that the market and production chains do not always function smoothly and that their disruption can create deep crises. so we have to equip ourselves for that, too. i have already said that this is programmatic federalism, but i would like to emphasize something else, what i have called ideal federalism. at the moment our values are being challenged in a way that has not been seen since the european union was founded. we must stand united in the face of these challenges. it is a question of the right of the people to selfdetermination, and it is a question of the right of the people to selfdetermination. so there is the real difficulty, in a sense, that we have to overcome and we have to be able to overcome it in order to succeed as europe. and finally, as i said before, if this is what i believe is necessary, if this is what will make it necessary, if this is what will lead to the beginning of a process of revision of the treaties, let us proceed with courage and confidence. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, prime minister draghi. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the ongoing hearings under article 7(1) teu regarding poland and hungary. i will remind you that free seating is applied with the exception of the first two rows, which are allocated to group leaders, and also inform members that this debate is foreseen with one round of political group speakers. the interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum except for catch—the—eye, blue cards and points of order. i therefore kindly invite you to keep an eye on the speakers’ list and to approach when your speaking time is imminent.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for putting the article 7 proceedings against poland and hungary back on the agenda of this plenary. as you know, the commission considers it important to keep the article 7 procedures on the council's agenda. the commission is also at the disposal of the council to support it in this context, in the course of hearings or in the context of the reports we present to it. it is in the same spirit that we naturally welcome the debate in the plenary with you. as regards the situation in poland, as you know, the fifth hearing under the article 7 procedure was held before the general affairs council on 22 february. the commission informed the council of developments in recent months, including a number of decisions of the polish constitutional tribunal calling into question the foundations of the union's legal order. these decisions have led us to initiate infringement proceedings before the court of justice, not only over the question of the primacy of european law, but also over our comments on the lack of independence of this constitutional court. the commission has also informed the council of several recent judgments of the european court of justice and the european court of human rights, which have confirmed the commission's concerns regarding the rule of law in poland, in particular on the issue of judicial independence, which i have just mentioned in relation to the constitutional tribunal. the commission could only conclude that the situation on the ground continued to give rise to very serious concerns in recent weeks. we have closely followed the legislative developments concerning the amendments to the polish legislation aimed at amending the disciplinary regime for judges in poland. the fact that there seems to be momentum towards reforming the disciplinary regime for judges in poland is a positive step. yet what will ultimately matter is the extent to which the legislation, as finally adopted by the polish parliament, if it is possible to go to final adoption, will address the requirements set out by the court of justice in its ruling of 14 and 15 july last year. i also note that last week the polish government put forward two draft laws which seek to fundamentally change the structure of the ordinary judiciary, including by changing the structure of courts and by transferring judges. we understand that these draft laws are now subject to public consultations. in this respect, i would stress that any new legislation concerning the judiciary must comply with the requirements of eu law on judicial independence, taking into account european standards and the case law of the european court of justice in this regard. the commission will continue to follow closely the legislative development in that respect and you know that it is in line with some decisions of the court of justice, including decisions on interim measures and including a decision on a fine of eur 1 million per day if there is no fulfilment of the requirements of such a decision on interim measures. and we are now at a total amount of more than eur 160 million with such a fine, until there is a possible positive development in poland. as regards the situation in hungary, the commission has had the opportunity to explain on different occasions that it shares a significant number of concerns expressed by the european parliament in its reasoned opinion and proposal triggering the article 7 procedure. the commission has also made it very clear that whatever position the council takes on the article 7 procedure, it must ensure a fair handling of the reasoned proposal tabled by parliament. the commission stressed this again in the geneva council of 14 december last year during a state of play point on the situation in hungary. hungary's fourth hearing under the article 7 procedure has been scheduled for the meeting of the geneva council of 23 may. we appreciate that the french presidency has included this hearing in the council's agenda. in addition to the article 7 procedures, the commission, as i said, has all the instruments at its disposal to protect the rule of law, and we do not hesitate to use them. one of these is the rule of law conditionality regulation, a financial instrument. we have to protect the eu budget and financial interests against breaches of the rule of law, as the court of justice has underlined. last week, the commission sent a written notification to hungary under the conditionality regulation. the commission has identified a number of rule of law issues, including corruption-related issues, that constitute reasonable grounds for the launch of the procedure under the general regime of conditionality. in particular, the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the union budget and the budgetary impact of the measures on the union budget. the identified issues, together with the long-standing commission recommendations and request to address them, combined with the lack of measures to address the identified issues in a structured manner over time, are indicative of a serious risk to the sound financial management of the union budget and to the protection of the financial interests of the union. hungary can now submit comments on the findings in the written notification within two months. it may also propose the adoption of remedial measures to address the findings. such a written notification is the first formal step of the procedure set out in the conditionality regulation, which establishes exchanges between the commission and the member state concerned with a view to addressing the commission's findings and protecting the union budget. throughout the procedure, hungary has the possibility to submit remedial measures. we are of course continuing to monitor the situation in all the other member states on the basis of the same regulation. the commission also does not hesitate to open infringement proceedings to address concerns about the rule of law. in the case of hungary, the commission has launched several infringement procedures related to respect for eu values. these procedures included the rights of civil society organisations, academic freedom, the rights of migrants and asylum seekers, media freedom and the rights of lgbtiq persons. as regards the situation in poland, as i said earlier, the commission decided last december to open a new infringement procedure against poland concerning the polish constitutional tribunal and its recent case law. this court expressly called into question the primacy of union law, and we added our doubts about its independence, which had already been raised in the context of article 7 since 2017. where relevant, the commission also has other instruments, such as the european semester, to promote and uphold the rule of law. in 2019, the council, following the commission's proposal, recommended to hungary to strengthen its anti-corruption framework and to strengthen judicial independence. in 2020, the council recommended to poland to enhance the investment climate, in particular by safeguarding judicial independence. the commission shall assess the national recovery and resilience plans in order to assess whether they are expected to contribute to effectively addressing all, or a significant subset, of the challenges identified in the relevant country-specific recommendations. moreover, in july the commission will publish its third annual rule of law report, and you know that for the first time the report will include recommendations. these recommendations will help member states to focus their follow-up on the key issues, including on justice, anti-corruption, media freedom, and checks and balances. they should also help and support member states in their efforts to uphold the rule of law and to prevent problems from emerging or deepening. and in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i regret that i am not able to report today on the positive developments in the rule of law in poland and hungary. i can only hope that the ongoing article 7 proceedings, like the other proceedings i have just mentioned, will give the polish and hungarian authorities time to reflect on how to respond to the concerns expressed. i also thank the french presidency again for keeping the article 7 proceedings against poland and hungary on the council's agenda. and we will of course continue to speak at every opportunity before the general affairs council when the items are put on the agenda, as i announced for hungary at the end of this month, as we will continue to move forward in all the other procedures we have initiated, until the legal systems in hungary and poland are fully brought into line with the european standards we are trying to share across the union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, before i go into the content of my contribution here today, i do have to say that i find it disappointing that we are having this debate today only with commissioner reynders. this is nothing personal against commissioner reynders obviously, but the fact that we’re talking about the ongoing article 7 procedures and there is an empty chair on my left, even though we all know that the main challenge, when it comes to article 7 procedures, lies with the council – it is very disappointing that the council is not present here today for this debate. in the plenary session in march or april, we already discussed the ongoing procedures for hungary and poland in detail and the lack of any progress when it comes to protection of the rule of law. so today it is also good to look at the procedural issues that we have in this european union. for the epp, the european union is, first and foremost, a community of values. a shared commitment to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is the glue that holds our union together. we can make all the progress we want on the internal market, on trade policy, in any other policy field, whatever we want, but, without a joint commitment to our founding values, none of that progress will ever be sustainable for the future. because how can we create a single area of freedom, justice and security if we cannot rely on the impartiality and independence of judges in all member states? how can we expect to have a level playing field for our smes if we cannot rely on the fact that member states will actually follow the rules that we have set together? and how can we count on the democratic legitimacy of the decision—making process when national elections are marred by the absence of a level playing field? when the rule of law is undermined in one member state, it affects the whole of the european union. this is precisely why we have always been very strict with countries that want to join the european union. the rule of law and the copenhagen criteria are the main focal points of the whole accession procedure and for good reasons. but, when we look back, it’s also fair to say that, as soon as an accession treaty is signed, that scrutiny seems to somehow disappear. this is a situation that we can no longer accept. the rule of law is so important and so crucial that it requires a constant and full commitment from all european institutions. it’s not that no progress has been made. the annual rule of law reporting that the commissioner referred to is a very welcome and important step because it also shows that the rule of law and the debates we have here in this parliament are not directed towards only one or two countries, but it’s something that all member states need to work on. but, even more importantly, with the conditionality mechanism, we took the historic step of linking values to the european budget, making sure that european taxpayers’ money is not used to further undermine and weaken the rule of law and democracy, but instead to strengthen it. we welcome the commission’s decision to send a formal notification to hungary, and we look forward to seeing the concrete follow—up. we call on the council, in that context, to show full political commitment to bringing this procedure to a successful conclusion without delay. as much as the annual rule of law report and the conditionality mechanisms are necessary and welcome supplements to the article 7 procedure, just as with the article 7 procedure, without real political commitment in the council, added value will always remain limited. for a long time, it seemed that, in the council, the rule of law was, like voldemort in harry potter, something that should not be mentioned by name. even though we now see article 7 hearings resume in the council – and we welcome this resumption under the french presidency – actions speak much louder than words, and it’s actions that we need. we need concrete recommendations with strict deadlines. eu leaders cannot just talk about the rule of law every now and again and then pat themselves on the back for a job well done, tick off the box on the to-do list and continue work as usual. we need concrete recommendations. if nothing concrete comes out of these hearings, there is little point in having them at all. so concrete recommendations with strict deadlines and, if these deadlines are not met, we need to look at all the other possibilities that the article 7 procedures offer us. we cannot allow our common values to be put at risk. this is also our main call to the council in the resolution we will adopt this week: show genuine commitment in defending our founding values and make real and meaningful progress in the ongoing article 7 procedures. i know there are people who argue that, with the terrible war in ukraine ongoing, now is not the time to focus on rule of law issues at home, and that it would not be fair to bother member states like hungary and poland with procedures or conditionality at a time when the polish and hungarian people are making such great efforts to welcome ukrainian refugees. but let me be absolutely clear and repeat what i said last week. yes, we need solidarity in the eu. we need to help the member states most affected in hosting hundreds of thousands of ukrainian refugees. this is why we are together in one union. but let me also be clear: helping member states deal with an unprecedented crisis should not come at the expense of being silent about rule of law issues at home. it would be cynical, while ukrainians are fighting – are dying – for freedom, democracy and the rule of law, to turn a blind eye to the attack of those very same values at home. if anything, putin’s russia should be a stark warning to all of us about the dangers of a system where checks and balances, democracy and the rule of law have ceased to exist. it should embolden us to fight for those values even more passionately at home.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, the trouble with authoritarian politics is that without pushback, it becomes ever more aggressive and dangerous. the european union has learned this the hard way with putin. but it seems to me that we haven’t really learned this lesson when it comes to our own values and rule of law in europe. we now have a member state government that has stifled independent media, captured independent institutions, which is spreading hate against minorities, and where billions of eu money has disappeared into the hands of oligarchs close to the ruling party. we also have a member state whose government works to dismantle the independent judiciary by targeting judges, by firing them. now, all of this takes place in the eu, a democratic community, with eu financial support and despite the many mechanisms and tools that we have in place to protect our values. today we are here to discuss article 7, which if you look at it, is a fairly straightforward procedure with hearings, with recommendations and ultimately sanctions. so on paper, it is a pretty powerful tool. in practice, the council has made it toothless and quite opaque. hearings are random and non—transparent, and even today, even after everything that has happened in hungary, the council has failed to even agree that this constitutes a serious breach of eu values, despite no unanimity needed for that statement. now thankfully, and after much hesitation, the commission has finally activated the conditionality regulation. but even here there is a risk that the scope will be too narrow and that it will fail to address the systemic deficiencies and risks that stem from the absence of checks and balances in the rule of law, which is precisely what this regulation is for. colleagues, i remember last time around many of you were saying when we had this debate that the situation is now unprecedented with a full—scale war on our borders. and now here we are four weeks later after the massacres in bucha, mariupol and many others, and what strikes me is that i hear many voices, even in this house, saying that while in times of war we should relax our principles and our rules when it comes to defending democracy in europe. but i strongly believe that this is precisely the opposite of what is needed. after putin’s invasion, many have said that we are now locked in a broader, protracted conflict between autocracy and democracy, between vladimir putin’s model and our european model, between tyranny and freedom, between brute force and the rule of law. and i agree. i agree that this is this is the conflict that we’re facing, which is precisely why, now more than ever, it’s important to protect our democratic model in europe, why we cannot relent, why we cannot now relax our rules, because otherwise, how are we going to prevail in this conflict that is upon us?
(the sitting was resumed at 2.07 p.m.) the president. before we go to the vote, mr fest has asked for the floor. i ask him to refer to the rule and not to exceed one minute.
mr president, you know that this was not a point of order, and i have therefore come to the vote.
the next item on the agenda is the vote.
we shall first vote on the request for urgent procedure on the dossier on transitional provisions for the packaging and labelling of veterinary medicinal products. does anyone in the house want to speak for or against the request for urgent procedure? that's not the case. i put the motion to the vote. (parliament adopted the resolution) the vote will take place on thursday 5 may at 12 noon. the deadline for tabling amendments is 7 p.m. today, 3 may. the deadline for requesting separate and distinct votes is 4 p.m. tomorrow, 4 may. for further details, see minutes.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to request a referral back to committee for institutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 59(4).
i'm not going to tell you. on the one hand, we must be pleased that despite covid, we have managed to involve a large number of people from all over europe in the conference on the future. on the other hand, we cannot be happy that we have not been able to involve the poorest and most vulnerable in this activity to a greater extent. on the one hand, we can be pleased that the huge number of people who have taken part in the conference on the future feel they are europeans. on the other hand, we must admit that there are a large number of people in europe who do not feel that they are full citizens of their own countries, not yet europeans. on the one hand, we can welcome the shift and vision in areas such as digitalisation, artificial intelligence or the environment. on the other hand, let's face it, a huge number of poor people in europe don't have access to drinking water. people want the assurances of a good education, a well-paid job, affordable housing, and quality health care. europeans want a europe that is fairer, more democratic, a safe place where everyone can make their own way, where everyone can fulfil their dreams. today, our most important task is to make all the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe a reality. that every child, every young person, has the opportunity to develop not only themselves, but also their surroundings. we have many of the recommendations before us, calling for far-reaching reforms. we can't afford to ignore them. europeans want a europe that is more social, more dignified, a europe where people live in prosperity rather than poverty.
thank you, ms pereira. now for this specific debate, we accepted all blue—cards and all the catch—the—eye requests, i believe maybe we had a record today, but it’s a most important and lively debate and it’s well—deserved as we discuss the future of europe. i really want to thank our vice—president, ms dubravka šuica, for staying and listening to the whole debate in the european parliament from so many colleagues staying with us, and also our vice—president, mr margaritis schinas, who also stayed and followed all the debate. i have received also three motions for resolutions to wind up this debate and now the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow. thank you colleagues, we may proceed to the next item. written statements (rule 171)
before we move on to the next point, i would like to say that as regards the recommendation to the decision by the agri committee not to object to the delegated act, which was notified at the beginning of yesterday's debate, no objections were raised within 24 hours. therefore, pursuant to article 111 (6), the recommendation shall be deemed to be approved and published together with the adopted text.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on eu preparedness for cyber-attack following the russian invasion of ukraine (2022/2649 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, i join my colleagues in calling for the unacceptability of these attacks and, of course, for the resilience of our cybersecurity. unfortunately, we're starting to see our weakness and european cybersecurity in action. certainly every eu member state is vulnerable, and we've seen these attacks in practice. in my country, it's not just attacks on government offices, but it's even attacks on hospitals, on transportation companies. we must also recognise the serious threat these attacks pose to our member states and their citizens, businesses and institutions. at the same time, we should build our system's resilience and readiness for these attacks and also change our policies, as our colleagues have talked about. cybersecurity is part of our critical infrastructure. and we should also help ukraine, because i really feel that we have an eu space agency, but the internet in ukraine was saved by elon musk. i think we should really think about this.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this rich debate. this is a defining moment for a europe that protects. we are now at a crossroads. what is happening in ukraine and in our neighbourhood is not isolated. it is a sign of things to come. it prefigures what modern warfare will be like. cyber-security is no longer a side tech issue of concern to the specialists. it is a fundamental pillar of the security of our economies, of our societies and of our democracies. it has nothing to do with industry. it has a lot to do with democracy. we have no time to lose if we want our union to be prepared, resilient and able to respond to these threats. the perpetrators will not wait for us. we need to work together, now more than ever, and put in full motion what we have already identified and announced in our 2020 eu cyber-security strategy. the whole lot leads to critical infrastructures, the cyber resilience act, the cyber-security skills gaps and, of course, investment. these are the foundations of our european cybersecurity shield. but, even more importantly, this is now the moment to move from a cyber-shield to an actual cyber-defence capability, and i am sure that we will be able to rise to this challenge. let me conclude with a final point. members of the european parliament, mr waszczykowski and mr papadakis, after thousands of dead, after bombarding the innocent and the vulnerable, after five million ukrainian refugees that have been kicked out of their homes, in today’s debate suggested that we should be ‘realistic’ with russia. that’s their assessment of what needs to be done well, with all respect, i think it’s not us that have to be realistic with russia. it’s russia that has to be respectful to us, and they should stop warfare now, be it with bombs, cannons or with computers. the best moment to stop is now.
the debate is over.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the impact of russia's illegal war of aggression against ukraine on the eu transport and tourism sector (2022/2643 ((rsp)).
i'm not going to tell you. in times of high, rising inflation, in times of war, in times of great metal problems and so forth, it is even more important than usual to spend taxpayers' money efficiently. the court has long drawn attention to budgetary problem areas, such as cohesion policy or the common agricultural policy. for example, the court found that the €100 billion spent between 2014 and 2020 to combat climate change by the agricultural sector had little impact on the amount of emissions from agriculture. i therefore consider it crucial that the outcomes we want to achieve and the ways in which they can be measured are clearly defined before the programme is launched. also, to make sure that those programs and funds that don't deliver results effectively get less and less money.
for the ecr group. mr president healthy competition is part of the european union's treasure trove. it is important that the commission and the states, that is, the politicians, fight against the abuse of a dominant position, against cartels. but sometimes we forget that it is we, the politicians, who systematically restrict competition. i can give as examples various systemic restrictions on trade in services, certain subsidies to member states' economies or tax exemptions. if we want to build a successful union, if we want to overcome the current crises, we must also have the courage and the strength to fight against the barriers to competition which arise directly from the rules of the game, which are therefore part of the system.
madam president, madam commissioner, colleagues, i stand here with my most sincere condolences to all ukrainians who have lost family members, friends and colleagues in this brutal war. it deeply pains me to hear the horrific stories from ukraine. every story, every picture, every emotion. we see you. we hear you. your stories are being documented. your stories will not be forgotten. ukrainian women have demonstrated enormous courage since the russian invasion. they have left their jobs, their families, their daily lives, to fight for freedom, for their future, and for democratic values. while we speak of european values and freedoms, ukrainian women live and fight for them. we must continue to listen with our full attention to the stories of women from ukraine. we europeans and the international community must urgently work on justice for all victims of war crimes in ukraine. as russia’s aggression continues, we have to make sure that we are ready to start prosecuting war crimes as soon as possible. this means pooling international resources together. i am proud of the eu’s leading role – for instance, eurojust’s joint investigation team into alleged core international crimes committed in ukraine. let us encourage justice authorities across member states to gather evidence and testimonies on war crimes against ukrainian women who have fled russia’s aggression. we must seek justice that will be speedy, not dragged out. justice that provides a safe and trustworthy space for victims and gathered evidence. justice using the most advanced forensic methods. justice for ukrainian women that is free from russian malign interference and is exercised not only through the media tools of russian propaganda, but also through russia’s position in global affairs. the crimes against ukrainian women will never be forgotten. we must do everything to bring their perpetrators to justice. slava ukraini!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i think it’s important that we discuss rule of law in this parliament as much as possible. i also want to thank the rapporteur for the reports, and i’m glad this has become a regular exercise. let me focus on one aspect, because i do believe that the 25 february and russia’s attack against ukraine has been a game changer in so many respects, including also the way we discuss rule of law issues. it has altered the reality of innocent people of ukraine, but in many respects, our lives too. our strong institutions are more important than ever. our functioning democracy and our freedom are invaluable. the rule of law and democracy can only flourish in an environment with quality, free and independent media, and free of manipulative propaganda. in this house, we do have several tools to tackle the consequences of malign foreign interference. we, thanks for the work of the inge special committee, know that we have to defend our democracy in the information space. we know who the malign foreign actors are; we know what russia has been doing to undermine our freedom for many years. sadly, with covid and russia’s war, we find ourselves in an increasingly vulnerable information space within the eu. fake news and the resulting disinformation aimed at eu citizens is a threat to democracy and the rule of law of our union, as the spread of disinformation polarises and weakens our institutions. the digital services act was a step in the right direction, but more needs to be done, especially in the european media act, and a set of rules aimed at tackling disinformation to create fair conditions for the media sector and the spread of free and factual information in online platforms. we need free and fair debate, we need facts, and this is the best way to fight for rule of law as well.
madam president, i’m happy to listen to this lively debate. indeed, it’s an important topic to be discussed, and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the colleagues for taking a very strong stand on the rule of law issues. i do believe that the progress reports, the annual reports on the rule of law, undoubtedly added an important instrument to the european union’s toolbox in reflecting the ongoing developments in the member states. at least, dear commissioner, member states cannot complain this time, saying that you are using your instruments in your toolbox for some of them and not for others. it’s a horizontal approach for everyone, so that helps in my own country, bulgaria, as well. lastly, we should continue insisting on our call on the scope of the report to be extended to all elements of the rule of law, including equality before the law, monitoring the protection of fundamental rights, the safeguarding of the rights of minorities, access to justice, and the instruments employed in the fight against discrimination and hate speech. i think it is important if we can develop the scope of the mechanism.
madam president, the commission's annual report on the rule of law is a regular opportunity for the european union to demonstrate its deeply ideological nature. poland and hungary are undoubtedly democratic countries, whether you like it or not. the hungarian government has just had its political majority confirmed and even amplified in the polls. poland is in the forefront of welcoming ukrainian refugees. but in order to circumvent democracy, you have twisted the meaning of the rule of law. it is based on a first imperative condition: the sovereignty of a people and a nation which establishes and respects its own laws. but you use the word "rule of law" to refer to the ideological state, the one that follows your political principles, against the law if necessary. it is because hungary and poland, supported by their peoples, are challenging your unique ideology that these two great nations are accused of being anti-democratic and threatened with being put on the scaffold by the illegitimate, because not elected, europeanist technocrats. to these historic european nations, which suffered for half a century under the scourge of communist totalitarianism, you are trying to reapply brezhnev's doctrine of 'limited sovereignty'. but the ussr has collapsed! so i hope that your ideological and prison europe will also collapse to make way for the true europe of nations, cooperation, projects and freedoms.
madam president, i have just heard mr lacapelle, i have heard mr lebreton... let us see: invoking sovereignty or invoking parliamentary majorities does not serve to justify the commission of crimes or the circumvention of the rule of law or the failure to follow the courts according to the appropriate hierarchy. let's start there: not in the european union. i am not going to say anything about outside the european union, but not in the european union. that is why we are here today, to evaluate the rule of law report. the rule of law in each member state is a matter for all europeans. the report we are voting on tomorrow contains recommendations which cannot be ignored. and we have to work without bias, without prejudice, to address every risk situation in any member state. and we have to listen to civil society, especially professional associations, on issues that have to do with justice, because the key to democracy is the separation of powers, the rule of law and the enforcement of judicial decisions in the appropriate body. the opinion of the committee on petitions on this report focused on sub-national entities to recall that they are also obliged to respect the eu's core values and that member states must act when they do not respect them. and when the member states do not enforce them on sub-national entities, the european union must also be involved, as it has been in the case of spaces free of lgbt people and as it must be in the case of catalonia with regard to some decisions that an ultra-nationalist government does not want to comply with either.
madam president, commissioner, the rule of law has been much debated. i am also on the committee on civil liberties and justice, i voted for this conditionality for european funds; i am also on the committee on budgetary control, but i am also vice-president of the committee on internal market, and the ambiguity that has remained in the minds of citizens is why the citizen should pay if the politicians are wrong - because the failure of the rule of law actually depends on the politicians and not on the simple citizen. the question i would like to ask you now is: how can we make this conditionality apply because yes, we must protect european funds, because yes, we must eliminate corruption, but without affecting the citizens of the country where we find, the european institutions, that human rights are being violated, that justice is not functioning, that there is no separation of powers in the state, so as not to affect the lives of citizens. because i don't think we want that through the sanction that we actually give if we put conditionality on the functioning of the rule of law. and frankly, it's not yet clear to the citizens and we should know how to explain it to increase the credibility of the citizens in the european institutions.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for this debate, which demonstrates the work we have to do together to uphold the values which, i repeat, were endorsed by the member states when they joined the european union or when they joined the european union, by approving the treaties. these are not imposed rules which the commission is trying to enforce and which are of its own accord: these are values which are enshrined in the treaties, i repeat, and approved by the member states. as regards the report itself, i would like to confirm what i have already said on several occasions: it is the commission's report. this is the commission's assessment of the rule of law, in a very correct way, in the 27 member states - when i say correct, that is to say on an equal basis: we work in the same way, with the same methodology and the same principles with regard to the 27 member states. but this is the commission's assessment, after the debates we have had, as i have recalled, with very many participants, whether they be the authorities of the member states, the judicial or political authorities, but also civil society and a whole range of stakeholders. in the end, this is the commission's report, which we are eager to discuss with a whole range of actors to ensure its follow-up, and we are doing this in the context of the debate here in the european parliament. we do this in the national parliaments as we do in the council, in the various council formations, but first of all in the general affairs council, and as we do in the member states with civil society. the aim is to ensure continuous follow-up of these successive reports. it is a real annual cycle, with the intention of establishing a culture of the rule of law. and i would like to confirm that the cycle now ends with an adoption by the commission in july, but we want to start the debate as soon as september and i would like to say that i am fully open to the idea of organising what has been mentioned as a values week where not only the rule of law report but also the other elements would be dealt with. there is a report, as you know, on the charter of fundamental rights. there are debates about democracy. we are quite prepared to discuss these various aspects with the european parliament. i would also insist that we have this debate on all the member states. i think this is important, even though i understand the point about the systemic nature of the problem which i myself have already mentioned in some member states. the report on the various national chapters makes a very clear distinction between the various member states. this report is primarily concerned with prevention. and you will have seen - i repeat, i am ready to talk to you about each of the member states - that very many reforms are being implemented in a very large number of member states to address the concerns expressed in the report. this will be even more so thanks to the recommendations that will appear this year in the third report on the rule of law, because we will have the opportunity to state clearly, perhaps even more clearly than in the first two editions, the reforms that are expected and therefore to discuss them with the member states. but of course, if dialogue is not enough, we must go further. the report is not enough and we must use the other instruments. i'll end by saying that we use them regularly. today, as part of the european semester, we have adopted country-specific recommendations which also concern the independence of the judiciary or elements of, for example, the fight against corruption. we have translated these country-specific recommendations into recovery and resilience plans. and you know that three plans still need to be approved: the dutch plan, because it was introduced very late, but also the hungarian and polish plans, which have not yet been approved by the commission or, even more so, by the council, and in which we repeat the same demands on the reforms that must be carried out in these countries concerning the rule of law. you are aware of the ongoing article 7 proceedings in hungary and poland. as regards conditionality, as i said earlier, we have started a formal notification procedure with regard to hungary. and, as you know, there are real and regular infringements before the court of justice, with convictions that go as far as financial penalties, which are expressed in deductions from payments to a member state. i am thinking in particular of poland, which was sentenced to a fine of eur 1 million per day for failure to apply the provisional measures decided by the court of justice in the context of the mechanisms for implementing judicial discipline in poland. we will continue to use all these instruments if the report is not enough, but i am very pleased that we have the opportunity to continue together these discussions on the permanent cycle that the tabling of the rule of law report now represents and especially the follow-up to be ensured in the european institutions, but also within the member states, with all the stakeholders and in particular all the actors of civil society.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank a lot all the colleagues who have contributed constructively. i think it was a very good debate. maybe we had some exceptions, but in general, i’m very happy about all the input and the very engaged debate that we have had. and i think that we can clearly see, and a lot of you have given examples for this, that the situation is challenging and that in certain parts it has actually deteriorated. and that is something that we need to strongly keep an eye on, not only in the rule of law report, but also with all the other instruments that we have. because i believe that, despite this backlash, we can still make it happen to defend the rule of law in the european union. but for that, we actually need a european commission that does not only do the paper work well, but that also has the political will and determination to stand up for the rule of law when wind is blowing in their faces. i hope that with the commitment that the commissioner has just given, we can we can see that happen in the future. let me take the last of my time to really thank the constructive work that has been put into writing this report, not only the shadow rapporteurs, not only the meps, but also the staff, the people from the secretariat, the apas. i think we have really pulled this off in a very future—oriented and constructive way, and you have made this report clearer and broader and better. i really believe that this approach that we form overwhelming big majorities from the left to the epp to stand up for the rule of law in this house is something that has proven to be very successful. we have actually shown that this is not a matter of whether you are a liberal, a christian democrat or a green, or whether you are from finland, spain or from poland, that this is really something about the fundament of our societies and of the european union. i believe that this is important because at the end of the day, it is in all of our interests to defend the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. having said that, i hope that we can get a very large and broad majority for this report tomorrow, so i ask you for your support tomorrow.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday (19 may 2022). the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. in the run-up to the commission's rule of law report 2022, i want to send a simple but clear message. the state of democracy in the world is a cause for concern. where the truth cannot be revealed, democracy cannot function. unfortunately, the share of democracies worldwide is declining, and the share of the world's population living in autocratic countries is increasing. is democracy in danger of dying out? in russia and china, democracy is far from being achieved. in the united states, democracy is under pressure. in our own european union, the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states is a cause for concern. but it is europe's responsibility to defend democracy. we owe it to ourselves, to our citizens, to our history. democracy and transparency go hand in hand. that's the message, that's the example we have to keep giving to the rest of the world. the european house of democracy therefore calls on the commission to play a more aggressive role and to defend democracy with all the means at its disposal.
before we move on to the next item, i have an announcement. the competent authorities of slovenia have informed the president of parliament of the election of mr matej žnemec as a member of the european parliament to replace ms tanja fajon, with effect from 18 may 2022. and here we would like to welcome our new colleague, of course, to take his place in parliament, in its institutions, and to enjoy the full rights set out in the rules of procedure.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr ilhan kyuchyuk, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the commission's report on north macedonia for 2021 (2021/2248 (ini)) (a9-0133/2022). the first speaker will be ilhan kyuchyuk for 4 minutes.
mr president, we all know that the western balkans are geographically part of europe. we all know what happened here: the council has already approved the accession of north macedonia to the european union as from 2020. and we also know, or we should know, the leadership of the european union, that we have to make political decisions in the context, and the context we all know now is the war in ukraine. russia is happy if we extend the strengthening of the european union with the western balkan states. that's why i think we need to hurry. it is a pity that the council is not here and that it was not in strasbourg. the council won't let us be here so they can hear us. so i support the accession of north macedonia and let's not disappoint them, because if a poll is taken, we will see how the credibility of the european union and trust decreases, precisely because of the delay in decisions. and yes you can try, commissioner, to do a survey in macedonia. if the citizens want it, we must strengthen our european union with the western balkans and the eastern partnership countries. i therefore support macedonia's membership of the european union as soon as possible.
mr president, i want to extend my compliments also to the rapporteur for a good report. i fully agree with what has been said by colleagues schieder and olekas. bulgaria at this critical moment in history has a unique chance to give a strong message to russia, to europe and to skopje. but the time has also come to hold the other 26 member states accountable for further delay from today onwards, because expressing, like monday at the foreign affairs council, full commitment and unwavering support is not going to do the trick anymore. the other 26 member states have to work together accordingly, to help bulgaria to overcome this hurdle. bulgaria has a unique chance to do a historic decision in this lifetime.
member of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank you all for this debate and again for your report, because be sure that the commission counts on the support of this house to remain engaged. more than ever, the european union needs to deliver on its commitments. north macedonia belongs in the european union, and the official launch of accession negotiations provides the best guarantees to ensure that the rule of law, fundamental rights and european values are implemented in practice in the interests of all citizens. so thanks again for this debate and for your report, and for your support.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, thank you all for your strong commitment to the european path of north macedonia, and thank you for your certainly positive contribution. i couldn’t agree more with the commissioner that the accession process provides the best way to secure the rule of law, high democratic standards. certainly – answering to madame zovko – the rights of minorities should be at the forefront of this accession process. i am trying to send a clear message in my report as well. to mr yordanov, i would like to assure him that i start with the friendship treaty and the prespa agreement, and i finish my report again with the friendship treaty and the prespa agreement, because they are the backbones of our report – not only our report, but they are the backbones of the strategic relationship between north macedonia and bulgaria, and between greece and north macedonia. they bring historical reconciliation. i concur with our colleagues saying that our credibility as the european union is at stake. yes, it is at stake because we didn’t deliver on our promises. we shouldn’t keep giving promises and making again and again the same mistakes. so to finish on a positive note, thank you colleagues and shadow rapporteurs for your contributions. certainly, your efforts improved my report, and i’m looking very much forward to have a strong, positive pro—european report by your vote tomorrow – and that is mainly for the citizens of north macedonia. the times are critical, and it’s certainly not a time to play nationalistic games, but it’s time to take courageous pro—european steps. i’m happy that we have the similar approach, not only on my report, but also on the entire western balkans, together in this house.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday (19 may 2022). the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. it is not desirable for north macedonia, mired in an endless dispute with bulgaria, to join the european union. the opening of negotiations is therefore not appropriate. first of all, i would like to mention the very low level of wages, flirting with the european minimum. this results in a risk of unfair competition, particularly for the french - a risk which has already been proven, since the quotas and customs duties have been essentially lifted as a result of the stabilisation and association agreement signed with north macedonia. in my region of the far east, some entrepreneurs who courageously try to reconnect with the illustrious lorraine textile tradition find themselves swept away by ruthless dumping. secondly, north macedonia is torn by significant religious and ethnic dissensions, involving, in particular, its albanian minority. this is compounded by the security risk posed by the return of jihadists and radical islam, even though this country (like all the countries in the balkans, except kosovo) benefits from the short-stay visa exemption of the european union. i would also remind you that the terrorist of the 2020 vienna bombing was a citizen of north macedonia.
the next item is the report by mrs isabel santos, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the commission's report on albania for the year 2021 [2021/2244 (ini) ] (a9-0131/2022) and speaking first in the debate, the rapporteur, mrs isabel santos, will speak for four minutes.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you again for such a fruitful debate and for the report – and maybe your support. we welcome such parliament support for albania’s eu integration and its recognition that the country has met all the conditions set by the european council to officially open accession negotiations. the future of the entire region lies in the european union and it is in our strategic interest to bring it closer to the european union. we look forward to adopting the negotiating framework and holding the first intergovernmental conference with albania as soon as possible. so thanks again for your support. we will try to move forward.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday (19 may 2022). the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. as we know, albania has been a candidate country for eu membership since 2014. the european commission is continuously monitoring the progress of reforms, particularly in the areas of the public sphere, the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and the protection of human rights. in march 2020, a decision was taken to open accession negotiations and in july 2020 a draft negotiating framework was submitted to the member states. however, due to bulgaria's refusal to accept the negotiating framework for north macedonia, it was suspended, as the decisions on the accession process of both countries are interlinked. i would like to stress - and this is also mentioned in the report - that we as members of the european parliament should support albania's efforts to join the community of eu countries. of course, further reforms are necessary and desirable, but i see no reason to postpone the opening of negotiations any further, since the basic conditions have been met. i would mention that i believe that the opening of negotiations with albania will provide an additional impetus for that country to carry out further necessary reforms. i look forward to further reforms in albania, particularly in the area of eliminating corruption and criminal activity from all areas of public life, including public procurement procedures and the financing of political parties.
the next item is the commission statement on the prosecution of opposition and detention of trade union leaders in belarus (2022/2664 ((rsp)). the first speaker in the debate will be commissioner didier reynders, who is representing the european commission.
for the ecr group. madam president, the initiative was initially launched as a legitimate attempt to tackle the problem of economic activity leaking out of the european union. and this happens for two reasons or two forms. on the one hand, it is the escape of taxation of economic activity to tax havens and, on the other hand, the escape of economic activity due to a worse business environment. the first is what we're trying to address now with the introduction of a global minimum tax. but we should be careful not to accept it as the only one, otherwise economic activity will continue to escape from the eu, for example to the united states. the latter should be addressed by structural reforms, otherwise economic activity from the union will continue to elude us, including investment, of course, not in tax havens but in countries with more efficient systems. in any case, with such a huge step, which will of course have many positive effects, the commission should have both positive and negative effects well analysed, and in my view we have reservations today.
mr president, i am very pleased that the creation of a european education area is now taking shape. we need to put in place mechanisms to help our citizens cope with socio-economic changes, such as the transition to a green or digital economy. we already have an army of unemployed people in europe, long-term unemployed people, such as roma, who are often unemployable. there are many reasons. i mention the failure of education systems to prepare roma children for the labour market, preferring to place them in special schools, thus losing their chance for a quality education, a job or a future. discrimination, racism or catastrophic living conditions without access to drinking water are the daily realities of many poor and poor roma children throughout the european union. dear friends, will tools such as micro-certificates or individual education accounts help vulnerable and disadvantaged groups? will they be sufficient in today's rapidly changing digital age? i personally believe that it is. however, it should be borne in mind that these activities need to be monitored and their real-world impact assessed.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear ukrainian colleagues, the war of aggression launched by putin against ukraine is primarily directed against ukrainian civilians, making them the main targets – an instrument of aggression. the russian leadership and soldiers have become the perpetrators of genocide and face responsibility. it is only a matter of time before justice is delivered. we must do everything possible to ensure that the war crimes and crimes against humanity that have been committed in ukraine are duly documented and investigated. the civilised world must send a clear message to russia. war crimes will be punished and there will be no possibility of hiding. i call on the european parliament to become as fully involved as possible in the investigations of russian war crimes by organising public and documented hearings with victims and witnesses. let us support the ukrainians and their rightful demand for justice. slava ukraini!
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm not going to let you down. my fellow citizens! the ukrainian people's heroism is admirable. after the victory in the war, a monument to ukraine should be erected in brussels for protecting europe from the ambitions of an aggressive dictatorship. the ukrainian people deserve our gratitude. i have no doubt that the war crimes committed against women, men, children, the perpetrators will be brought to justice. he has also been involved in the illegal 'seizure' of ukrainian cultural and historical heritage by the ukrainian authorities. let us hope that they will not be lost in private collections but will, however illegally, end up in russian museums and be returned to ukraine after the war is won. those who, in occupied territories, have destroyed scientific collections and archives by means of barbaric obscurantism are also punished as war criminals. the largest seed genetic fund in ukraine in kharkiv, the research archive of chernobyl and many other scientific values have been destroyed. they are war crimes because, like human life, the destroyed scientific collections and archives are irrecoverable - they are lost - to ukraine and to humanity for all time.
mr president, the wheels of justice are moving. but we need to make sure they are moving swiftly. heroic efforts are being carried out already by both ukrainian and european professionals to secure evidence of war crimes in ukraine and from ukrainians across eu member states. these efforts deserve our utmost political, legislative and financial support. victims of war crimes need credible evidence in order to seek justice. we must, therefore, diligently support appropriate mandates and resources of eu institutions, especially eurojust, in order to safeguard the analysis and preservation of all evidence of core international crimes committed by russia against the people in ukraine. only admissible evidence gives due process and justice a proper chance. only well-guarded facts stand a chance against russian malign propaganda and deceitful methods. dear colleagues, ukraine must win this war, and russia must face consequences for its aggression. there can be no impunity for war crimes and we shall stand by victims of this brutal attack until justice is fully and duly served.
mr. chairman, many of you here are saying that europe must immediately cut off its supply of russian gas because by buying russian gas, we are financing the russian war. i'm asking you, what kind of nonsense is this? what nonsense, after all, by buying gas we are ensuring first of all our european, in my case slovak, industry, which would not last a day without gas. it's just a fact. now we're supposed to stop buying chinese products because we're funding a communist regime, or arab oil because we're funding arabs? slovakia is 100 percent, 100 percent dependent on russian gas and all the smart people who say we have to disconnect immediately, i ask why ukraine is not an example. why ukraine, also 100% dependent, doesn't connect first, why ukraine still pays for russian gas. are we supposed to accuse them of funding the russian invasion? no, we're not doing that. i'm all for, when there's a cheaper, more affordable energy supplier, we buy oil and gas from whoever we want. but unless there is a supplier, which there isn't, i urge you to be prudent and keep a cool head.
mr president, many of the measures proposed, commissioner, can only be welcomed, because they really do allow for energy savings, mainly through greater energy efficiency, but also through greater use of renewable sources. i do have a few notes, though. first, we have to be really honest with our citizens, if we want to reduce our energy dependence on russia quickly, it will cost a lot of money, which will be largely paid by citizens, whether it's higher energy bills or even stopping at gas stations. and we also have to even invest in infrastructure to import alternative fossil fuels. that's what we normally wouldn't want to do, we have a green deal. renewable energy sources will not allow us to find alternatives to russian oil and gas immediately. we also have to keep in mind that those countries that could be alternative carriers for our needs are not democracies by any means, but rather regimes, and they are also more interested in long-term contracts than short-term contracts. we're not talking about 300 billion either, because that tells people that it's some new money, but it's just a transfer of money that's already there from existing funds. and for inland countries like slovakia or hungary, which are at the end of all alternative gas routes, it is very important to secure investment in lng terminals, as well as in interconnectors, and it seems to me that the proposed 10 billion will not be enough.
in writing. – with sanctions against russia, little is said about an important issue – the form by which trade barriers against russia are and will be imposed. whether these are import bans (quotas, embargoes) or tariffs. in my opinion, it is more advantageous for eu member states to introduce import duties instead of bans. this is why: with trade bans, the supply of imported goods is reduced and therefore the price of the goods in the importing country rises, while the money from this increased price remains in the exporting country. on the contrary, with tariffs, although the price of the goods in the importing country also rises, the money from the increased price will remain in the importing country. moreover, unlike bans, tariffs can be adjusted gradually and flexibly, precisely according to the evolution of the situation. the revenue from tariffs can also more easily compensate countries that will suffer the most from the restrictions on imports from russia.
member of the commission. – mr president, (start of speech off mic) stressed that the country’s accession to the eu is more meaningful than ever. turkey remains a key regional partner whose role is pivotal for ensuring the eu’s stability and security. at the same time, it cannot justify the continuous backsliding on the rule of law and fundamental rights or bilateral tensions between our member states and turkey. the commission will continue to be guided by the council conclusions on turkey. we will continue working closely with the turkish counterparts in order to advance cooperation in areas of common interest such as trade, climate, migration, security or health. at the same time, we will keep raising the concerns and address the points of political differences. the respect for human rights and the rule of law remains a cornerstone for eu-turkey relations. in the same vein, reports of flights over greek inhabited areas by turkish air fighters are a source of concern. disputing greece’s sovereignty over some of its islands is counterproductive and contradicts de-escalation efforts in the eastern mediterranean. turkey, therefore, is expected to unequivocally commit to good neighbourly relations, international agreements and peaceful settlement of disputes having recourse, if necessary, to the international court of justice.
the debate on this point is closed. the vote is tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, another report on turkey, which clearly shows the absurd, cowardly and toothless european foreign policy. the state led by the dictator erdogan has no place in the european union. moreover, she is not a reliable partner, not a strategic partner, not our friend. on the contrary, turkey is an aggressive country where the idea of the restoration of the ottoman empire reigns, and if you continue to close your eyes, then this is very bad. you may have missed it, but erdogan has been adamant against finland and sweden joining nato. in the meantime, he continues to actively work with russia. do you still consider this country an ally and a partner? if so, you've lost touch with the real world. it is incomprehensible and illogical, when erdogan is waging war in syria and blackmailing europe by letting in the flow of illegal immigrants, that we should talk about dialogue and understanding. we cannot and must not allow ourselves to be held hostage by a dictator who has decided to ignore international treaties, human rights and the european union. such a country cannot and is not our partner and never will be. that should be clear to everyone.
in writing. the situation in turkey is worrying. the country is in a critical position as a nato member and a close neighbour of the eu, but it is moving further and further away from the eu's membership criteria and shared values. it is not in the eu's interest to have a country like this next door. turkey, for example, plays a central role in the eu's refugee policy, and this situation is not sustainable. we in the eu must do everything we can to strengthen turkey's democratic development. the process of turkish accession to the eu is still officially under way, although it has been virtually frozen for years. turkey has systematically failed to fulfil its commitments under the accession negotiations. the human rights situation in turkey is also deteriorating further and parliament must condemn the pressure on civil society and human rights defenders in turkey. the eu should also actively support turkish civil society. the current development in turkey is reflected, for example, in the way turkey is currently blackmailing nato member countries, taking advantage of the applications for nato membership from finland and sweden. parliament must demand that we refrain from such pressure. it is now very important that all nato allies ratify the protocols of accession of finland and sweden to nato as soon as possible.
the next item on the agenda is the report by thomas waitz, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eeas's climate change and defence plans (2021/2102 (ini)) (a9-0084/2022).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, we think that the debate today testifies your interest and engagement towards addressing the cross-cutting impact of climate change on security and defence. we reiterate that we will respect the mission—first principle as we need to make sure that the armed forces can do their job, namely to protect and defend us. that said, energy efficiency and the environmental sustainability will strengthen, not hamper our operational efficiency if done in the right way. your report provides an encouragement to continue to push forward. thank you.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, indeed our colleagues from the far right did not do their homework, because mr so-called oberstleutnant like mr zimniok obviously didn’t read the report, because what are we talking about there? it’s a compromised report with epp, with social democrats, with liberals. the capabilities of actual military activity, where needed, are not impacted by that report. we’re basically talking about reducing co2 emissions by changing the way we cool our houses, how we heat necessary infrastructure, and how we are replacing procurement with products that are less co2-emitting or maybe even co2-neutral. at a lot of the conversations with the generals, i also learned that the provision of fossil fuels to our missions – for example, in sahel – is one of the biggest security risks that we have. colleagues to the far right – who are not here anymore, unfortunately – have you realised that our dependency on fossil fuels is one of the biggest security threats we’re having at the moment? this counts for the whole society, as it counts for our civilian and military missions. next time when you walk out here and spread your interesting information, maybe you’ll do your homework first and see where the potential lies. i also learned from a general that even electrifying tanks would be a good idea, because this kind of fuel could be produced right there where the mission is, in the middle of the desert. a tank is so heavy already that the batteries don’t matter. but okay, if you in principle want to be against everything that has the name ‘climate’ and that points out the real and long—standing problems that we have, that’s where we are. unfortunately, mick wallace, you are still here at least. the text says that part of the research money should be used also to develop technologies that omit less co2 and are more environmentally friendly. it makes sense to use at least part of the defence money for these kinds of uses, which we could maybe also disseminate for the civilian sector. last but not least, i want to thank all the shadow rapporteurs that worked with me again. we had some intensive compromising. we included all the amendments and all the important inputs from all sides, and we produced a balanced report that reflects many views and many political standpoints. this is clearly a report that shows green participation and leadership, but it’s clearly a report that includes the whole spectrum of perspectives that are needed for this sector. i want to thank all of them once again, and i hope we’re going to get a big majority in the votes tomorrow.
the debate on this point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. i commend the european external action service (eeas) for its efforts to address the links between climate change and defence by submitting a roadmap on climate change and defence. with this roadmap, the eeas proposes to mainstream climate change into eu defence actions, including the common security and defence policy (csdp). it is important to set voluntary targets for reducing the carbon emissions of military missions and operations and to adopt a more effective pathway to climate neutrality by 2050, without these targets compromising the security of missions and without compromising the operational capabilities of the armed forces. i call on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to ensure that environmental protection and the fight against climate change and its effects are properly integrated into the union's external action, and i consider it important to integrate climate security experts into csdp missions and operations.
the next item on the agenda is the report by mr mcallister, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu and security challenges in the indo-pacific (2021/2232(ini)) (a9-0085/2022).
mr president, the report reflects the great interests in an area which, according to the united states, 'to some extent will determine the future of the world', and concerns critical energy routes, rare earths and countries of geostrategic importance. the european union, by actively participating alongside the united states and nato in the imperialist war in ukraine, in the conflict with russia, is also part of the euro-atlantic competition with china at all levels, military, political and economic. it intervenes in india and other states in the region to align itself with this plan, it develops military forces not only within nato but also independently, declaring that it will not be satisfied with the french army already present, nor will it compromise with plans that do not take it into account, such as aukus. the dangerous escalation in the competition of the bourgeoisie, the rearrangement of the imperialist alliances, the confrontation of the united states-european union-nato with china and russia in the indo-pacific increase the risks for the peoples.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, today’s discussions have reiterated our willingness to contribute to the security and prosperity of the indo-pacific region in full respect of international law. growing global challenges call for more multilateral governance and rule—based international cooperation, not less. what happens in ukraine will have an impact on the indo-pacific region. for the indo-pacific region, it is therefore important, as it is for europe, that international law and territorial integrity are respected. thank you very much for your attention.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner várhelyi was very precise and i will be just as brief. i would like to thank all colleagues for their contributions. i thought this was a constructive debate and having listened carefully to all the contributions, let me try to summarise. i guess most of us do agree that for us in the european union, the indo-pacific offers great opportunities, but indeed also poses many challenges. but one thing is clear: our prosperity and economic interests rely on the openness for stability and the security in the region. several colleagues mentioned increasing geopolitical competition. well, yes, this does produce tensions not only in trade and supply chains, but also in broader political and security matters. it is authoritarian regimes in the region that are suppressing democratic principles and human rights and this, in the end, puts regional stability at risk and this also directly affects european security and prosperity. from my point of view, the key message the european parliament is sending to the entire indo-pacific is that we are ready – ready for deepening cooperation and engagement with our partners and like-minded countries, like-minded democracies in the region, in order to respond to emerging dynamics that are affecting regional but also global stability and security. to sum up, it is in our joint interest to maintain a free and open indo-pacific for all, and it is in our interest to promote a rules-based regional order in line with the principles of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and international law. i would like to thank once again for the support i received from most of the political groups yesterday, and i am quite convinced that tomorrow we can adopt this report with a large and broad majority in this plenary. once again, dear colleagues, thank you for a fruitful and constructive debate.
the debate is closed. the vote on this item will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the eu and the indo-pacific countries are facing increasingly similar security challenges and also non-traditional challenges. in recent years, developments in the region, in particular chinese activities, have led to intense geopolitical tensions and competition that threaten the rules-based international order. there is no overall regional security regime and no confidence-building mechanism to alleviate the related problems and tensions. such dynamics pose a serious threat to the stability and security of the region and the global community, directly affecting the strategic interests of the eu as the main political and economic partner of the countries in the region. the ideological struggle between authoritarianism and democracy in the region may influence the outcome of similar struggles around the world, including in the vicinity of the eu. a stable and peaceful indo-pacific region, based on respect for international law, is essential to the protection of the security and interests of the eu. given also the broader geopolitical complexity of the russian war of aggression against ukraine, the european union needs to focus on capable defence cooperation towards the union and to cooperate, inter alia, with partners in the indo-pacific region.
the next item on the agenda is the report by mr younous omarjee, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the eu islands and cohesion policy: the current situation and future challenges (2021/2079 (ini)) (a9-0144/2022).
madam president, under the government of robert fico, for 12 years slovakia was not a state governed by the rule of law. there was buying verdicts, cheating, stealing. nine years ago, in moldova, police raided a roma settlement, beating up residents, including women and children. victims of this violence were not only physically assaulted and beaten, but the beaten ones were even accused of perjury, for which they were subsequently prosecuted. this also happened under robert fico. it is absurd that after this police raid, former prime minister fico came to thank the police for a well-fought battle with his minister robert kalinjak. it took nine years to see justice done, which was helped by the change of mafia government under the current government of prime minister eduard heger, who has been trying to put slovakia on the path of the rule of law for two years. only after the change of government was it possible to achieve a reconciliation between the state and the complainants, which was confirmed by the european court of human rights in strasbourg. this case also shows that fico and pellegrini are miles away from the rule of law, but very close to corruption, the mafia and breaking the law.
madam president, it is the scientific consensus, and therefore the great responsibility of scientists, that humanity cannot afford to slow down in stopping global warming. the task of politicians is to achieve an agreed halt to warming with the least possible negative impact on people's living standards. we must therefore choose the most efficient processes, i.e. those that reduce the production of one tonne of co2 the most cheaply. according to an oecd study that evaluated the effectiveness of various emission reduction methods, as well as twenty-eight nobel laureates in economics, market-based solutions are the most effective. so the alternative to a market-based ets is just to remove greenhouse gases by less efficient methods. that means higher taxes, higher negative impacts on people's living standards. although, at first glance, it seems to be the opposite. but in such a fateful matter, we simply cannot afford for populism to triumph.
in writing. we must give clear priority to renewable sources, but at the same time i insist on mandatory exemptions for socially vulnerable and poverty-stricken citizens, who already in slovakia have to pay increasingly higher energy prices. i put this forward as lead rapporteur in the revision of the energy taxation directive voted on recently in committee and i believe that this approach should be applied to other parts of the fit for 55 package, whether it be emission allowances, carbon taxes or the climate fund. i fear that a complete ban on the sale of cars with internal combustion engines from 2035 would harm not only the automotive industry but also people. similarly, the intended charging of fuel for heating and road transport should be limited to administrative and commercial buildings and buses only for a certain transitional period and should not apply to private passenger cars and household heating.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is important and right that we make the right choices now to make our mobility climate-neutral. the eu commission is therefore proposing that only new battery-powered vehicles be allowed to be registered by 2035. so far, so good. i'm going to go. but there are still many open questions that cannot be answered seriously or fully. first, how climate neutral is an electric car really? second, how can we generate enough electricity from renewable energy by 2035 to make the use of electric batteries truly climate neutral? or do we not have to import an enormous amount of energy in the form of hydrogen or synthetic, climate-neutral fuels? thirdly, will we still have the necessary charging infrastructure, and especially in rural areas and in eastern europe, by 2035? fourthly, are we not entering into a very dangerous addiction to nickel, cobalt or lithium, a new addiction to raw materials? fifth, will people with low and middle incomes be able to afford an electric car in the future? all these questions have not yet been satisfactorily answered. so i think it's a risky move to put everything on a horse. no, i'm not against electric mobility. i am simply advocating a little more flexibility and, above all, open competition in the field of technology. because openness to technology has always been an asset, and it's an opportunity here, too. i do not want the technology of the internal combustion engine to disappear from europe, including engineers and hundreds of thousands of jobs, while china produces electric fuel and, crucially, china has access to the raw materials we need for electric cars. what would be wrong if in 2035 the consumer had the choice between a much cheaper electric car than today and a hybrid with imported electric fuel? it should be possible to do both. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's climate neutral, but it doesn't have any blinds.
mr president, i would like to thank you. these days will be some of the most important of my time as a member of the european parliament. because right now, we're really moving on climate legislation. we are used to being a house that pushes ambition upwards, and i really hope we will continue to be that when we have voted on the many important pieces of legislation this week. fortunately, we have a strong green burden-sharing agreement that sets binding climate targets for all countries. i am particularly proud that we have secured accelerated action towards 2030. because every year counts for the climate, and we can't just wait until 2030 and hope that everyone reaches their goals. with the agreement we are voting on tomorrow, we can save the atmosphere by 2030 the equivalent of italy's co2 emissions in a whole year. in fact, that's a victory in itself. another victory is that we are now declaring that all countries must be carbon neutral by 2050. because we are on the verge of fundamentally changing our society. from being fossil and polluting to being modern green growth economies. but we must not end up dividing the eu into those countries which need to cut and those which do not need to do as much. we cannot afford that in the climate crisis. and then we also need to ensure that all countries are part of the green transformation of our societies, so that they get a share of the future growth, which will undoubtedly be green. we must not overlook this when we talk about a just transition. thank you for helping to pave the way for climate action. i look forward to voting for the climate and for the future this week.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we remember: global warming threatens our environment, it threatens our economic performance, it threatens our health, and it threatens the living conditions of our future generations. and at the same time we see a massive lobbying here in the house, by industry, by the agricultural, forestry and chemical industries, which is doing everything possible to prevent a climate and environmentally friendly agriculture here. we are seeing a massive intervention by the steel and fossil energy industries, which are resisting the expiry of the free certificates. how do you explain to the public that consumers will have to pay a share of the emissions in future, but that the big polluters will continue to receive free certificates? and we see massive lobbying by the auto industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and also the argument that is being made here by some of our conservative colleagues directly from the lobby briefings that are in our mailboxes, for example, we have supply problems with battery raw materials: yes, we have supply problems right now with pretty much everything that we don't produce in europe. whoever forfeits the right ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, making the european union's climate policy dependent on a speculative emissions market has delayed our response. a market that has done little to help reduce carbon emissions and has been permeable to the industry and fossil fuel lobby. a few days ago we were watching the news of members of this house having dinner with representatives of the airlines. the targets are below what the science says, the lobby has blown every proposal. to want to meet funding needs by shifting costs to the most vulnerable while protecting the business is immoral. the proposals we have discussed here are clearly short on objectives and means, and we are talking about very small steps which the right-wing deniers in this house want to cut short. we are waging the battle for our generation and future generations and we risk a resounding failure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing how to build a more sustainable social model and economic life. if we were to take this debate outside the european parliament and place it on a global scale, we could take the european model as a model to follow, the most sustainable model in the world. but today we heard a reminder that we should follow china's lead in moving from internal combustion engine cars to electric vehicles. and the person who proposed it forgot to mention how electricity is produced in china, in the most unsustainable way known. so before suggesting such risky models, we need to look more closely at what has happened in the past decades on our continent, to build innovative and sustainable models. but we should not just look at the big car manufacturers as our interlocutors, but at the whole chain, at all the small manufacturers, those who make the brakes, those who make the chassis, those who make the gearbox, because we, who are elected by the people, know that in order to listen to the interlocutors we must listen to all of them, not just those who have the big voice, mr vice-president. everyone must be heard, so that the transition is not a top-down model, as is done in china, but a bottom-up process, as has always been done in europe.
mr president, first of all, the truth is that it is worth saying that this is a process that comes from below; that today we have this huge package to discuss because for the last few years, not to say for the last few decades, science has been warning us of where we were going; and that the younger people and the mobilizations around the planet were telling us in the streets that it was necessary to start the decarbonization process. we are all responding to a bottom-up movement that comes from science, that comes from social movements, and that is why today we have the objective 55 package, which is also going to be a unique and exemplary roadmap for the rest of the world to decarbonize. it's not without problems, obviously, because we're the first in the world to be designing how to do something as complex and as transformative as the industrial revolution was. so, today we're discussing it, it comes from below. that said, as an alternative rapporteur on the effort-sharing regulation, i would like to thank all the alternative rapporteurs for their work. the fact is that this is a very important regulation covering 60% of greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time it supports the commission's proposal for a 40% reduction in emissions covered by this regulation by 2030 compared to 2005, and it also introduces some elements for the debate and discussion with the commission of this regulation. it is important for us to have a linear trajectory and limit flexibilities by borrowing, accumulating or transferring and eliminating the additional reserve. all this, in addition to calling for the continued use of this instrument beyond 2030, for fair behaviour and efforts by all sectors, including a very important clause for my group, the socialist and democratic group, on just transition, and the need for the european commission to include common guidelines and methods that take into account the labour and social impact of the regulation. but that's why, from below, we'll enforce a regulation like this.
mr. chairman, we know what's at stake. the planet is already giving us a taste of it. drought, flooding, crop failures, and extreme heat. what we have experienced so far, however, scientists say, is just a small taste of what awaits us if we do not act. the climate crisis is here, and we're all about survival. but a crisis can also be an opportunity. the opportunity to move europe, and therefore slovakia, forward. a chance to progress. it's time to stop wasting and start using energy efficiently. start developing truly green energy that gives people jobs and doesn't destroy nature. to promote green innovation instead of subsidizing the destruction of the planet. we have an opportunity to transform our industry and enable it to be not only green, but competitive in the 21st century. and it will only be if it doesn't destroy the planet and its climate. our forests and our soils can help us because they're the best carbon sinks in the atmosphere. and it's up to us whether we help them become part of the solution, or they become more and more part of the problem. because only healthy soil is alive. living soil helps us to capture carbon best. that is why we need a separate and binding target for carbon farming. climate protection is about fairness, responsibility to europeans and europeans. but it also takes your courage and determination.
mr. chairman, we are facing a truly enormous challenge to save the climate, and therefore ourselves. i am very pleased with the many objectives which this parliament represents, proposes and supports in this fight. but i also watch with concern as we reluctantly accept that ecosystems and nature itself can work for our benefit. we literally intuitively don't give them a chance. we're pushing technical solutions, which is fine, but we're also pushing the natural, the green solutions. we're inadvertently enabling a fundamental property of soils and ecosystems, which is to capture and store carbon, to take it out of the atmosphere and to incorporate inside of it amazing processes in ecosystems. we have the biggest problem with lulucf, and to me, it's a sad signal that we still don't understand the bottom line: that being compatible with the planet and really effectively addressing the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis is critically dependent on how well we work with nature. cooperation with nature is clearly our greatest weakness. and that has to change. it can and it must be done because it is a matter of life and death.
madam president, commission, council, we are facing a european legislature which is crucial for the future of the union. in just three years we have faced the brexit crisis, we have then faced the fight against the covid pandemic and at this moment we are facing a war on the very border of the european union that also threatens liberal democracy on our continent. but liberal democracy was also under attack from within the union, for years, by some governments. and that is why this parliament and these institutions of the union not only introduced democratic conditionality into the regulation to put in place the national recovery and resilience plans, but also passed a specific regulation to make the receipt of aid conditional on the requirements of the rule of law. and these crises, these critical moments that we have lived through in these years, are linked to this, to the present situation with the polish government. the russian invasion of ukraine has changed many things in the european union and it seems that some things may be changing in poland as well. but at this moment the european commission and the union must be more firm than ever, more firm than we have been in recent years, because only by being firm in our own democratic values will we be able to make those illiberal temptations of some governments within the european union correct themselves, and correct themselves by respecting the european union.
madam president, the decision to endorse poland’s recovery and resilience plan was neither easy nor is it a blank cheque. the approval of this plan is linked to clear commitments by poland on rule of law issues and the independence of the judiciary. ‘a first payment will only be possible when the new law is in force and ticks all the boxes under this contract.’ this is a direct quote from the commission president and, frankly, the most important aspect of this plan. the plan is indeed a contract with mutual obligations and the ball is now in warsaw’s hands. the money allocated to poland is linked directly to specific milestones and targets, clearly outlining the commission’s expectations, our european expectations, and they must be fully met. will it be an easy conversation with warsaw? for most governments, the answer would be yes. sadly, as the polish ruling party has showed us in recent years, the current polish government tends to create obstacles, likes to bend the rules to the maximum, even break them. i will always stress and i repeat here: poland can do much more and much better if there is will and true commitment to work on remedies by the ruling majority. now the commission must follow up on its decision with full diligence. steps that can unlock the disbursement of eu funds rest with the polish government. the leadership in warsaw must take clear-cut decisions that will lead to general confidence in the independence and fairness of the polish justice system. as we focus on the facts on the ground, i hope that all of those responsible for necessary changes are going to put the interests of the polish citizens above political egos and more petty fights with europe.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the eu's eastern partnership programme is one of the best tools for strengthening the union, and the last three months have also shown that if there is no peace and security in any partner country, the security and stability of the eu is also at risk. the eu's external relations are also important for the eu's external relations, as the eu's external relations are also important for the eu's external relations. russia's aggression against ukraine took everyone by surprise and showed the need for further integration of the associated countries. the eu and its eastern partners' defence and security capabilities could be strengthened by granting candidate status to ukraine, moldova and georgia. it is important that there is peace and stability in the eu's eastern neighbourhood. in this context, ukraine's application for membership has an important symbolic political message and can contribute to a faster process of democratization and post-conciliation recovery in the future. among the content elements of the eastern partnership, i would stress the importance of infrastructure development, especially in border regions, as we are still seeing that humanitarian aid is more difficult to reach because of the capacity of border crossers. finally, i would like to emphasise that hungary supports the steps to promote peace, the eastern partnership programme, the eu's united stance and solidarity with ukraine, but in the interests of the country's stability and its citizens, it does not agree with the oil and gas embargo.
madam president! russia's brutal actions, which are in absolute violation of international law, present new challenges and strategic choices for the eastern partnership. the future of ukraine, moldova and georgia lies in the european union and i am glad that this report highlights this. we cannot and will not accept the kremlin's policy being carried out under the barrel of a rifle. after the occupation of abkhazia, south ossetia and crimea, the attack on ukraine is, i hope, the latest example of the russian authorities' openly aggressive policy of restoring the soviet empire - something that we poles have been warning about for years. russia's actions require a strong opposition and a coherent and coordinated approach by the member states and the eastern partnership. i welcome the fact that this report calls for the european peace fund to be used to coordinate the supply of defensive weapons to ukraine and to establish a military mission in that country after the lifting of the state of emergency. cooperation within the north atlantic alliance is also of great importance. finally, i would like to congratulate mr waszczykowski on a very good report.
madam president, success in the eastern partnership is key to the eu’s security and defence policy success. to use a common phrase, without a ring of true and close friends around our borders, our geopolitical ambitions will remain limited. we must therefore respond to russia’s aggression in ukraine with clarity. we must give unequivocal support for territorial integrity in the eastern partnership countries, including their rights to govern their own exclusive waters, seas and ports. the eastern partnership must be a european partnership. our eastern partners must get a solid message from us. if you are with us, we are unconditionally with you, and we fully support your freedom to choose your own destiny, on your own terms, without russia’s blackmail. those who want to be our european partners must benefit from close strategic ties by aligning with eu values, principles and positions, including on security and defence. we have an historic chance to offer a strong security guarantee to our eastern partnership countries by underwriting their european future. those which are serious about joining the european union must be given a fair chance to do so. a clear-cut candidate status for ukraine later this month would be the best security and defence move for the eastern partnership and the eu itself.
mr. chairman, i agree that young talent should be sought out and bright young people should be encouraged. but why are you bringing those africans back? why would you do that? where are all the rocket engineers and doctors who came in as part of that illegal immigration? where are they? they came to abuse the welfare system. they came to steal, they came to rape, and in many cases, they came to murder. because of them, many europeans, millions of europeans, cannot walk in their own streets in their own cities, because of the no-go zones that are being created. i'm really sick of how you find a solution to every problem, that the solution is more africans in europe. yes, we must support talent, but we must also support it among the young people of europe, among europeans, among the present generation, among future generations, among our children! let's not just look to africa for the solution. but let's finally look to europe for our young, bright people! and there we look for the future! this is our future!
unfortunately, mr president, in most member states it is legal to terminate unborn life in the womb. the netherlands is a striking example. children may be aborted up to 24 weeks of pregnancy. whereas, thanks to advances in neonatology, babies are viable at 22 weeks gestation. a greater contrast is hardly conceivable. the tolerance on this subject is very high in this house. countless reports and resolutions declare that belief in abortion provocatus is both appropriate and inappropriate. and that's when europe is not at all concerned. when a draft memo from a u.s. supreme court justice was leaked recently, the left wing of the house screamed it out. tolerance was and is a long way off. the member states must have a family policy that is good for both mother and child and unborn child, and the absent fathers must be particularly involved. too many expectant fathers, unfortunately, quietly leave through the back door when their wife or girlfriend is unintended pregnant. this is unacceptable.
madam president, every crisis in society unfortunately brings with it a crisis in the protection of human rights. including women's rights to choose their own bodies. the years of the epidemic, now putin's war, but also the overthrow of the rule of law have further strengthened these illiberal tendencies to try to deprive women of their rights again. while in the united states today, after 50 years, the concept of women's right to abortion is in real danger of falling apart, in european countries, specifically in poland, it is already a reality. and this is happening against the backdrop of the deterioration of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. and that's not a coincidence. but even in my country, slovakia, i don't think a month will go by without lawmakers trying to propose another abortion crackdown. so i want to express my support for all women and apologize for these humiliating attempts. every woman has the right to make her own choices, and in the union, in an area of freedom and democracy, this right should be guaranteed.
madam president, half a year ago we adopted a resolution on strengthening democracy and media freedom. as it states, journalists increasingly face intimidation, physical attacks, especially if they focus on abuse of power, corruption or violations of fundamental human rights. such practices threaten democracy and the functioning of the rule of law. in march of this year, georgia applied for eu candidate country status. however, such basic values as freedom of speech and the protection of journalists are seriously threatened in this country. we have the chilling examples of murdered investigative journalist jan and his fiancée martina from slovakia, or maltese investigative journalist daphne, who paid with their lives in the course of their journalistic work. therefore, my message to the georgian authorities is clear and unequivocal: action is needed, not just sitting by.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to strongly support our call for the convention and raise three points in this context. first, european treaties codify our past. they, of course, also reflect lessons learned from problems we faced together and overcame or not. but they should also give us effective instruments to cope with the challenges of tomorrow, and that is why treaties need changes. for the years to come, we will need a legal framework that will offer a more unified european jurisdiction, leave no space to populist political forces undermining european foundations, allow us to be more proactive, hopefully also less prescriptive and more principle-based. of course, thinking ahead requires political will, strategic vision, but also a lot of political courage. and my second point is that the good news here is that aiming towards treaty change, we will not be starting from scratch. the one-year-long debate in the framework of the conference on the future of europe and citizens’ engagement offer a vision of a europe caring about democracy and the rule of law, competitive internationally, climate-friendly, socially sensitive, providing security and able to build global alliances. the moment is, indeed, as many of you said, unique. as for this treaty change, we have brave and pragmatic citizens with us. and the last point: our resolution will send a strong political signal about the need of changing european treaties in all areas that will make the union fit for the future. and the conference has proven that a convention is the best path towards the new treaties the union needs.
mr president, the concerns of the citizens go far beyond the revision of the treaties and there are certainly many things we can and must do now, exploiting the potential still available in the lisbon treaty. but it is also a fact that several of the citizens' proposals which became conclusions of the conference on the future of europe imply a timely revision of the treaties. taking these conclusions seriously therefore means allowing these proposals to be discussed at least in the proper place, which is a convention. it is therefore sensible to adopt this resolution so that a convention can discuss the limitation of the rule of unanimity, the strengthening of european powers, the right of legislative initiative of the european parliament and the mechanisms for defending the rule of law. other issues, such as the institutional architecture to reconcile deeper integration with enlargement scenarios, would also merit discussion. but the first step is to call a convention, and that is what we must do.
mr president, the conclusion of the conference on the future of europe is very clear: europe will be democratic and powerful or it will not be. we wanted this public debate, launched, i want to remind you, in 2019 by president macron. we must honour our commitments and launch the revision of the treaties today. it is therefore very strange for me this morning to hear the criticisms of manon aubry and those, also surprising, of paulo rangel, because if there has been a government in recent years which has been constantly committed to reforming the european union, it is the french government. in this age of empires and planetary powers, we must decide whether we want to exist or perish. and unanimity is the best guarantee of our demise. we need more efficiency, more power and more democracy. on this point, dear sven simon, president macron has always been very clear. we need to revise the treaties urgently to free ourselves from national vetoes. we have said so, of course, but the urgency of saying it does not absolve us of the obligation to do it. let's do this
before i give the floor to mr beaune on behalf of the presidency and the council, i should like to say that mr simon and mrs grapini have applied for a blue card, but since they have already been given the right to a blue card i will not give them a second blue card from the same colleague, especially since mr simon has already spoken, so that we can continue the debate and other speakers can speak. just a minute, i think it's better to give the floor to the representative of the council. mr beaune, you have the floor.
president of the council. mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be extremely brief because i am aware of the favour you are willing to do to the presidency of the council, which i represent this morning, and i shall react to the conclusion of the debate properly and in the order in which it was intended. i've been following your discussions since the train. i don't know if it was a franco-german cooperation, but a german train and then a french train were late and in trouble. i beg your pardon. it was beyond my control, and i wanted to be there for that debate. i saw that this allowed mrs aubry to campaign nationally by accusing the french presidency of being late, before leaving the chamber without delay, presumably to resume campaign activities, which shows the interest of la france insoumise in debates of this magnitude. i will be very brief, simply to say that the work done by this conference on the future of europe owes a great deal to you in this european parliament. he met with you, mr dubravka, with the vice-president, with mr verhofstadt, with the other co-presidents, the slovenian and portuguese presidencies, in this chamber, with citizens who are committed. the european parliament is defending, and this will be the subject of your further debate, an ambitious follow-up to this work. i say this with caution, since you are clearly aware of the debates between member states on the follow-up to this conference and the work which was handed over to the three co-chairs on 9 may. but the president of the republic, emmanuel macron, said in the chamber: on the french side, we will support this ambition. we are in favour of the idea of a convention and we consider that treaty changes, if not a project in themselves, are one of the options that we must absolutely look at for any changes that would require it. these debates will be discussed in the council. i have decided, on behalf of the french presidency, to organise them as soon as the next general affairs council on 21 june, before the next european summit. i would therefore like to tell you about this opening, the debate which is going on in the member states and in the council, of course, as it is here. but it is certain, i repeat the words of the president of the republic, that we must not be disappointed by the work of this unprecedented conference on the future of europe and consider that the proposed changes must be implemented as quickly as possible. the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, spoke of this in a concrete way on 9 may and the return of these works, but without closing any door, on the contrary, to changes, changes in treaties, including ambitious developments, and democratic work in the open air that would continue. i know that the european parliament, with its nuances, sometimes with differences between political groups, is keen on this. i just wanted to thank you for carrying this ambition and taking over this civic work. sorry to interrupt your discussion. i shall continue to listen to them wisely and i shall come back later, in conclusion, in a more formal and institutional way.
mr president, this parliament might be a federal fantasyland, but the world out there is not. according to some colleagues, we need to call for a convention so they can change the treaties. but why? after the conference on the future of europe, it was claimed that we needed to listen to the citizens. well, in that respect, please let me give you some results on how the dutch feel about the eu. getting rid of veto power? against. a european asylum policy? against. transnational voting lists? nobody cares. and european taxes? only one in ten thinks this is a good idea. president, when i meet citizens and i speak with them about the eu and the future of the eu, they talk about a strong common market that works for them. so let that be our focus instead of wasting our time on the ideas of overambitious federalists.
mr president, madam vice-president, minister, colleagues, as we live in unprecedented times, as war of aggression has returned to our continent, we must take a close look at how the eu can do more and better for europeans. while many of our foundations continue to serve us well, brexit, together with several european crises, led us to the conference on the future of europe with a forward—looking ambition. now, i believe the conclusions of this conference, combined with a fragile state of our union, make a clear cut case for a forward—looking convention. we cannot turn a blind eye to public calls for change as the world around us has changed so much. europe’s role continues to be challenged across our continent and globally. i see the convention as the best way to seek honest, well-prepared and evolutionary answers to the requests made by european citizens. europe must be ready to provide security, protection and international leadership in coming decades. we must be an attractive project, a magnet ready to accept new member states from the western balkans and offer a clear eu membership perspective to ukraine. widening and deepening, dear colleagues, have for many years been a source of the strength and resilience of the union. the convention must take place and we should embrace it as an opportunity. it must be a forum for open and genuine discussion, and we cannot prescribe its outcome now. today we can support the democratic process, creation of a credible platform that can deliberate for a stronger and more effective europe, and tackle possible treaty changes on the basis of clear principles. this is why i support today’s resolution. our change is the key to our survival. the convention should seek the best ways for europe to succeed. and, mr minister, we need some clear answers from the french presidency. are you with us?
in writing. i think the union would benefit from more transparency, value for money analysis based on objective data and best practice in the member states, and less protectionism. if we want to give the commission more powers, it must first show better results. the transfer of powers from the member states to the commission is therefore conditional on the transfer being supported by a correct analysis of objective data. example: before the eu starts to put pressure on member states not yet in the monetary union to join quickly, it would be worthwhile to assess why, according to several studies, countries that have joined the euro area have lower gdps than if they had not joined. without this step, rapid centralisation could stimulate centrifugal forces in the union.
for the ecr group. madam president, croatia will become the 20th member of the eurozone next year, and this is an opportunity not only to wish croatia success, but also to say a few words about the eurozone, which was conceived as a club of countries with low debt, sound public finances, and a stable currency. but with the financial crisis, this paradigm has changed a lot. the ecb's purchases of government bonds are turning the euro area into a transfer union. fiscal rules are regularly violated, and they were actually de facto abolished with the arrival of the pandemic. public debts are rising, inflation is at record levels. perhaps these are the reasons why sound academic research suggests that many new and older eurozone members would have a better economic performance today if they had kept their own currencies. and i say this as a supporter of slovakia, my country, joining the eurozone. i wish croatia and the euro area that its membership is a success story for both sides.
in writing. last year, i expressed serious doubts that the evaluation of the recovery fund would be based on an assessment of effectiveness (technical assistance instrument written explanation of vote, 2021). this deficiency has obviously also contributed to the enormous bureaucracy that i have been informed about by officials working on the implementation of recovery plans at national level. i therefore call on the commission to move swiftly from the control of compliance with administrative requirements to the assessment of value for money for the citizen in the management of the national recovery plans.
madam president, it has been six years since the european commission launched infringement proceedings against slovakia for long-term discrimination against roma children in the education system. despite warnings, but also despite the latest call of the council of europe, the slovak ministry of education has done nothing to prepare roma children for the labour market. also because of the approach of the slovak ministry of education, tens of thousands of children in slovakia are lost. they end up with no education, no job prospects, no future, or even no dreams. the ministry of education neglects the crucial period of pre-primary education, which cannot be completed, and continues to allow the unlawful placement of roma children in special schools. we all hoped that the new slovak minister of education, gröhling, would take systemic measures. unfortunately, in two years, he has produced nothing but the usual response that roma inclusion is important. dear friends, this school year thousands of roma children will leave the education system in slovakia. unfortunately, without a future. colleagues, colleagues, how long are we going to watch what is happening in the field of education of roma children in slovakia?
that concludes the item.
the next item is the oral explanations of vote.
that concludes the oral explanations of vote.
the sitting is now closed. it will resume tomorrow, thursday 23 june at 9.00, with the debate on the report from mr buşoi on gas storage. the agenda has been published and it’s available on the european parliament website. thank you all so much for staying until this time.
first of all good morning everyone. i sincerely apologise for the delay due to the transport situation. i hope it wasn’t too much of an inconvenience.
the negotiations have thus begun and the first item on the agenda is the report 'gas storage' presented by mr cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (com (2022) 0135 - c9-0126/2022 - 2022/0090 (cod)).
mr president, mr timmermans, ladies and gentlemen, the platform for voluntary joint gas orders from the member states, the institutionalisation of 80% fullness on 1 november 2022 and solidarity with the member states which do not have sufficient storage space today give us the opportunity to talk about an important european step ahead of next winter. however, prices are not falling significantly. the commission has already been given a mandate to study the change in the electricity pricing model and the possibility of disconnecting it from natural gas. as i'm sure you understand, dear executive vice president, we cannot continue to price electricity based on the world's most expensive fossil fuel. at the same time, the european council must act immediately and impose a ceiling on the wholesale price of natural gas, as proposed by the greek prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis months ago. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. let's not give any more time to putin, the speculators and the populists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president, thank you to the negotiators who have made it possible to complete this process which was correctly initiated by the european commission in the form of that solidarity which the european union is once again able to demonstrate in difficult times. we saw it with covid and we're seeing it on this very dramatic occasion. in this debate, colleagues have rightly expressed concern in some cases about the continued supply of russian gas to the european union. it is legitimate to be perplexed, but reality must prevail. we have a task today to ensure that the stocks are filled, but at the same time to gradually reduce our dependence on russia. what do you mean, "what"? with this regulatory action, but above all with a proper pricing policy. it is true that we must get out of the overly financial market, but we must not get out of the market, because it is important that the encounter between supply and demand should regulate prices. the problem is that supply and demand has to be about the product and not the financial product. so the reason why we are proposing a price ceiling at this strategic stage is precisely this: the european union is not only a market economy, but a policy which strongly defends the democratic principles on which the european union is founded, and which we hope ukraine will soon join.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me just briefly react to some of the things that were said. obviously, the only way we’re going to create long-term energy sovereignty in europe is through renewables. and we also need to do more to save more energy. the cheapest energy is the energy you don’t use. so obviously that remains our main goal. but at the same time, if putin can succeed to disrupt our societies with the weapon he has, which is gas, then we will never get to the situation that we can take our society into a sustainable and renewable future. so that’s why we need this legislation right now. it’s not because we have an eternal attachment to fossil fuels and natural gas, it’s because we know that if we don’t fix this problem collectively as europeans, we give putin a weapon to disrupt our societies, and disrupted societies are societies that cannot embrace the need for change also in the right direction. so that’s why this is so essential. that’s why i’m so grateful to the european parliament for having moved so swiftly and so clearly in a legislation that we desperately need right now. i also want to point out that when poland was cut off, germany immediately stepped in. when bulgaria was cut off, greece immediately stepped in. so we do see solidarity, material solidarity, happening between our member states when there is a need for that. finally, let me just also say that i am a bit surprised that those who for a long, long time felt very close to putin – let me put it in very careful words – in this house are now invoking democracy or even liberty as an argument against the eu acting collectively. the aim of putin was, and is, to destroy and disrupt the european union. those who follow the agenda by being anti-europeans or europhobes should understand they are playing into his hands and not into the hands of our citizens, who want us to collectively solve problems they can’t solve individually.
rapporteur. – mr president, once again, i would like to thank president jerzy buzek and the whole negotiating team and also the coordinators for their extraordinary mobilisation and dedicated work to conclude fast and efficiently this very important legislation in the context of the illegal invasion of ukraine by russia. i would like to thank also all colleagues contributing to the debate today. the debate reaffirmed the strong commitment of all colleagues from the european parliament to protect european citizens and our industries from any major disruption and pressure from russia. we showed our will and readiness to act together in solidarity to strengthen the eu’s resilience and preparedness against external threats. with minimum 80% capacity this year and minimum 90% from next year, with solidarity agreements between member states – and vice-president timmermans expressed some of the excellent examples in the near past, with the need for gas storage operators to pass the certification, and with the mechanism of joint gas purchases, member states have now clear legislation to respect and the tools to act to ensure the protection of citizens and households. i would like to stress that continuous support and guidance from the commission’s side is still needed along the process and commissioner kadri simson, during many discussions with the itre committee, and today executive vice-president timmermans entrusted us with this. we showed our will and readiness to act together and with the gas and hydrogen package and the rest of the fit for 55 package, and with the implementation of the repowereu plan, investing in renewables and energy efficiency and hydrogen will achieve: firstly, security of supply and energy independence; will avoid, secondly, in the future the volatility of prices and the high prices of energy; and thirdly, and the most important for future generations, will reach our climate goals and ambitions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the talks today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission 'veto by member states threatening the global tax agreement' (2022/2734 ((rsp)).
in the commission's appeal to the united states of america for not respecting fundamental human rights, the right of women to have an abortion, i am missing one essential point. if the united states of america does not respect our opinion and the opinion of the civilized world, what sanctions will we impose on them? either we stop or restrict the supply of arms to europe or we freeze the assets of the supreme court justices, i don't know, because we can't distinguish between poland, hungary and the united states of america. and as far as a woman's right to have an abortion, i don't think that's a right. it's a matter of conscience, of the character of a woman. it's a question of how he decides. the gardener, who owns the garden, may trample the seed that will grow into a beautiful flower. he can do that, it's his garden. it's his right, but it's actually barbaric, so i'm just gonna go with it. and i would also like to deal with the letter or challenge of some renew members, some of the renew members, that all those who have a different view on the question of life, on the question of abortion, should be expelled from parliament, which if it is already advisable to this challenge (the president interrupted the speaker) to express what it is, it is total bullshit or i do not know how to say it. that's all i have to say. (speaker agrees to respond to speech after blue card is raised)
reaction to the exit after the blue card has been raised. i can explain. if there is life in the woman or in anyone else, or if there is something bad in the woman, a cancerous tumor, or sepsis, it has to be removed from the body. i, as a man, i don't deal humanly, as a man, as a father and grandfather, i don't understand, as a man, and i don't take anyone's opinion, how can someone remove from the body when there is life abounding? i'm not saying it's right. i said it a moment ago, it's a woman's right. i just can't understand it on the inside. that's why i likened it to a gardener, there's a seed, life germinates. it's his right. it's a woman's right to do that. i just don't understand it as a human being, that's all.
mr president, the digital services act and the digital markets act will rewrite the rules of the internet. i would like to thank our dear colleagues andreas schwab and christel schaldemose for taking on the job of finding the compromises, and its compromises are a giant leap forward. but no thanks to the shadow lobbying of the big tech. some of you may have read last week a piece in the guardian. it explains that in response to your initiative of the tracking-free ads coalition, brussels saw a surge of small and medium-sized enterprises taking up the job of lobbying. however, they pretended to represent small and medium business enterprises, but they were, in effect, representing big tech. they were funded by big tech, representing the interests of big tech companies. now, it is clearly a shame that democratically chosen representatives in the european parliament are being manipulated in covert ways and with dirty tricks. dear colleagues, organisations that are not listed in the eu transparency register or that are not honest about their members and their funding should not be allowed to lobby the european parliament. i call on the colleagues to ban big tech shadow lobbying and, of course, last but not least, vote for the dsa and the dma.
member of the commission. mr president, in recent months we have sometimes compared the legislative process to a marathon. in fact, i think it would have been better to compare it to a real sprint because the speed of adoption, which was welcomed by all, is all the more evident when one sees the difficulties faced elsewhere - sandro gozi referred to this implicitly earlier - by our non-european partners. and it is true that they have been trying for some time to do what we have done - you are right - with the adoption of these texts: we are giving the go-ahead and we will be ready to help those who want to be inspired, if they wish, by what we have done for our 445 million citizens. as i have said, and as many of you have mentioned, the priority now is obviously the implementation of the dsa and the dma. and as far as these new responsibilities are concerned, the commission - i want to tell you this - is preparing very actively to be operational, and this from day one, so that companies can start to be properly controlled. so these big platforms are going to have to adapt to our rules, not the other way around. our teams are being reinforced, as you rightly requested. i would even say that for many of them they are already working. they are interacting with most of the major platforms involved, explaining what is in the text and helping them prepare for their new obligations. and i wanted to tell you that in this context we will of course be able to live up to your trust. our services will apply these regulations with the utmost firmness and seriousness to the whole of the single market. and it will also be important to work together - as you know, this is also the spirit of the text - with the member states and with the various stakeholders. at the same time, we will continue our work on reorganising the information space so that, here too, we can continue to strengthen the position of our citizens. however, it is known that some large platforms will continue to exploit the personal data of european citizens in exchange for seemingly free services, in particular those related to identity. this is why we must move very quickly towards the adoption of the new european e-wallet regulation, a proposal which is already under consideration by the european parliament and the member states. our aim, once again, is to put the individual at the centre of his own digital and information space, and above all to give him the keys so that he can take back control. i would like to thank parliament once again for its constant work and i repeat: we are now working to implement this regulation as soon as it is adopted - i hope tomorrow - by parliament.
member of the commission. – mr president, this has been a real debate. it has been obvious for everyone listening that not everyone was happy. some wanted more. some wanted less. and yet there is a strong coalition in this parliament to change the rules of the digital world. this is not the end. this is not perfect. but it’s good and it’s strong and it’s ambitious, as a new beginning for a democracy that sets the rules of our digital world. this is what is needed, and the timing is absolutely perfect because now everything digitalises. had democracy not reinstated itself in our digital world, it may have been too late, because what we can do now is to enable a fair, open digital market, safe products and respect for our democracy and what feeds it. we have discussed, i have learned a lot in these years when we have done this, and we have solved problems – a number of them. we have got more platform services covered. we have started interoperability. we protect minors. i think the proposals that you will vote on are better than the ones the commission tabled because we have learnt together, and i want to thank you for this. it’s in the realisation of this that real change begins. as was just said, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. the proof of the law is in its enforcement, and in making these laws in real life, in the enforcement, well then big tech business models will change. and then new business opportunities will open for all the smes of this world – with their own data, with their own access, with their own ideas. because making the most of technology is making it serve: serve us as humans, serve small businesses, serve those who protect and develop our democracy. in doing that, we create trust in technology. i think that is what you are reaching to achieve.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you, colleagues, for a very good debate today and to you, margrethe. i was going to say the same as you just said here – finally, we are at the end of the beginning, because tomorrow we vote and then we have the legislation in place. and then the hard work will begin. and i count on you, mr breton and ms vestager, i count on you – you need to do a very good job. it will be tough to implement and it will be even tougher to enforce it. but we need it because otherwise we will not get the tech industry under democratic control. and i will follow it, together with the parliament; we will make sure that you will be pushed and we will look over our shoulders and follow your work, because this is very important. but i have to say that i am extremely proud that we together have made history and we together have made landmark legislations that will impact the whole digital world and a lot of citizens will really feel the difference. so we need to be proud. i am proud. thank you very much for the cooperation.
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, commissioners, i would like also wholeheartedly to thank you for the trust that you have given to me when we were dealing with the law, with the draft law, and when there were compromises to be made. this has been a difficult situation for those who felt not to be the leading part of it, but you have made a big step for this law to be, in the end, a success for all of us. this has only been possible because you have made a step in favour of democratic compromises, which are the strengths of this house. i would like to thank you for that. secondly, i think it has been a very strong cooperation also beyond committees, and therefore all those that have contributed in different committees have made their impact on the laws that even at the end might not always be seen as clearly as it was in the process. also this has been of utmost importance. certainly i am very grateful that the commission has committed itself today to a very strong pathway to implementation. you know that we have been writing to the french presidency, arguing that if we are stronger together, then it means that if we are now putting common tasks at european level in enforcing the dma and the dsa, that also the manpower has to be shifted from member states to the european level, at least in relation to these laws. and you know that we haven’t got from the council side very emotional answers. therefore, we would like to see more than just promises, we would like to see at least 150 staffers in the two relevant areas, to make sure that the digital markets act and the digital services act get a reality, because it is true that nice laws may read well, but the end is that they be really strongly enforced – and for that we count on you. as i have been discussing last week with an ambassador of a very important democracy who said the european union is the strongest regulator in the world. with that law that we did we lead the path, but we have now to make proof of modesty and smart application, and for that i wish the commission all the best.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday [06.07.2022]. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. – the dma is about the digital transformation being fair. it’s not about punishing the big guy. it’s about allowing the little guy to compete and broadening consumers choice. enforcement by the european commission will be key. dialogue and coordination mechanisms between public authorities and private stakeholders will determine whether this law is a success. the dma covers a fast-moving sector. that is why the european commission will need to have permanent expertise to monitor trends and respond quickly. there may be clear dos and don’ts listed in the dma, but the constant emergence of new technologies and business models will inevitably lead to new questions regarding interpretation. thus we have future-proofed the regulation to account for still inexistent digital technologies and markets.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr siegfried mureşan, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the adoption by croatia of the euro on 1 january 2023 (com (2022) 0282 - - 2022/0179 (nle)) (a9-0187/2022). the first speaker will be mr siegfried mureşan, rapporteur.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues. on 1 january 2023, croatia will become the 20th member of the euro area. this is good news for the people of croatia. it is good news for the croatian economy and for croatian businesses. it is good news for the european union as a whole. this is why here from the european parliament, we need to congratulate the people of croatia and the croatian authorities for all the achievements of recent years and for fulfilling all the criteria required for joining the euro area. on 1 june, the european central bank and the european commission both concluded that croatia fulfils all legally—required conditions to join the euro area. its debt complies with the requirements, its interest rate, its exchange rate, its inflation, and croatian legislation is in line with the treaty, including with the statute of the european central bank. this is why we, as the european parliament, say very clearly that once a country fulfils all legal requirements, it should be accepted to join without any further delay. this is why i have put forward, during the month of june, the draft report here to the econ committee in parliament in which i propose that we give a green light to croatia joining the euro area on 1 january 2023. i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs and i would like to thank our colleagues from the committee on economic and monetary affairs for voting with an overwhelming majority – 43 votes in favour, just one vote against, and two abstentions – and giving a green light on the side of parliament for this important achievement. this shows that de facto there is no opposition here in the european parliament towards croatia joining the euro area. during my visit to croatia, i could see on the ground that croatia fulfils the conditions in a very sustainable manner. throughout the crisis, throughout the economic and social crisis generated by the coronavirus that debt, the interest rate, inflation – all the economic indicators – respected the rules. i could also see that the politicians in that country, the main political parties, are supporting this. i could also see the popular support in the country in view of croatia finally using the euro as their currency. this means that the people of croatia can easier travel to other countries of the euro area. it will be easier for investments from other countries of the euro area to invest in croatia, to help develop the croatian economy to generate jobs. it will be easier to trade. it will be easier for european tourists to go and enjoy the beautiful landscapes in croatia. i am also of the strong belief that croatian authorities know that 1 january will be the beginning, not the end, of the further economic development of croatia. reforms need to continue. the economy needs to become even stronger and more competitive and, of course, the eu funds from the traditional budget of the european union and from the recovery and resilience facility can play an important role. during my discussions with croatian government representatives, the national bank and colleagues in parliament, i had the feeling that the authorities are aware of the importance that the eu funds grant, that they are committed to further managing people’s money and the budget with care, to further strengthening and reforming the economy. this is why, to conclude, once again thank you very much to you, to our co-rapporteurs. a big word of congratulations to the people of croatia. we are looking forward to welcoming croatia as new member of the euro area. we are of the strong belief that this will be good not only for croatia but for the european union as a whole. it shows the trust that exists in our common currency.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am very pleased to be here to discuss the adoption prospects for croatia. this is an historical step for this country – a country that 30 years ago was at war. and i think we see the progress that was made with the eu candidates who are entering the eu and now the prospects of joining the euro. the parliament is playing its full part in the enlargement procedure. and i want to thank all of you and the rapporteur, the honourable mr mureşan. on 1 june, as you remembered, the commission concluded its convergence report that croatia has achieved the high degree of sustainable economic convergence with the euro area economy and is ready to adopt the euro on 1 january next year. the ecb report was fully aligned with ours. croatia has fulfilled the four economic convergence criteria, and its national legislation on monetary affairs is also in line with the treaty. the commission has therefore made the legal proposal, required by the treaty, for the introduction of the single currency. we have examined croatia thoroughly and fairly in full respect of the principle of equal treatment. the conditions for croatia to thrive in the euro area are clearly in place. following our proposal, euro area member countries in the council adopted the recommendation supporting croatia’s adoption of the euro. the european council agreed that croatia fulfils the convergence criteria of the treaty and is ready to adopt the single currency. now i invite the european parliament to signal its political support for the euro adoption by croatia on 1 january 2023. following the vote of the european parliament, the council will be able to adopt the final legislative proposal on 12 july. and this would give sufficient time for croatia to prepare for the 1 january changeover. above all, this would be a message of trust and determination – the strong signal that european monetary integration is a successful project. it will be a reminder that sustained policy efforts generate concrete results. joining the euro area will contribute to increase croatia’s potential growth and to strengthen the adjustment capacity of its economy. to this end, the effective implementation of croatia’s recovery and resilience plan will be key. as you know, based on the fulfilment of first milestones and targets, the commission made a first payment of eur 700 million to croatia last week and we look forward to more reforms and investment. so, as the honourable mr mureşan said, it is a starting point, but a starting point of historical importance for croatia.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have good reasons for setting high standards for joining the eurozone, because we have unfortunately seen in the past the difficulties that the eurozone can encounter when a member state is in economic difficulties. croatia has met this high hurdle with flying colors. the government of andrej plenković has made considerable progress towards the eurozone in recent years, in a very difficult environment. if we look at the relevant economic indicators, it is clear that croatia is in many respects better off than some of the established members of the euro area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is true that each member of the eurozone has a shared responsibility for the community as a whole. this also implies a responsibility for a responsible budgetary policy. i am pleased and i can say on behalf of the epp that we support croatia becoming the 20th member of the eurozone and hope that other member states will follow the example of croatian economic and budgetary policy.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, today is a good day for europe because we are sending positive political messages. croatia sends the message that it was able to move from war and destruction to european development within a few decades. a very good example – a perfect example – for all of the countries that aspire to join the european union. the eurozone sends the message that it was able to deal, to cope with the european economic crisis and that it even found a way to strengthen and continuously expand itself. together, we sent the message that the european union, despite difficulties and lost opportunities and lost time, always finds the way to progress and strengthen itself. the last message is of particular importance, in my view, since we face new major challenges.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the euro is in bad shape. the sharp decline since february shows its fragility. our economy is in a bad way. the ecb president, christine lagarde, said that the worrying inflation that is now taking place will be sustained and excessively high. why then is the european union, aware of the difficulties faced by our states in the aftermath of covid-19 and in the midst of the ukrainian crisis, deciding today to allow croatia to adopt the single currency, even though this country has not implemented any of the 17 recommendations of the council of europe's group of states against corruption? even though it will reinforce the economic differences within the euro area, which are getting a little bit bigger every day? the first victims will be the most modest: our small businesses, our savers, whom you will degrade without the slightest hesitation. i say to you, therefore, that we must put an end to this europe which is against everything, and especially against the peoples. moreover, as regards the people, i would be very curious to know whether the croatian people have been consulted on this matter.
for the ecr group. mr president, croatia is entering the eurozone at a very tense time of record inflation and great uncertainty. something similar happened in my home country of slovakia, which introduced the single currency in 2009 during the financial crisis. experience has shown that the introduction of the euro does not in principle cause price increases and can be more advantageous for a small country in difficult times because of greater monetary stability. but let us not forget that the guarantee of the stability of the single currency is not the number of members but its fiscal rules. accession to the euro area must therefore not be the end but the beginning of the path to fiscal responsibility. let it be a reminder to us 19 euro-zone members that the fiscal consolidation and reforms we expect from croatia are a necessity for us too. only fiscal responsibility will ensure that the euro is a benefit for all and not a burden for those responsible.
thank you, mr. chairman, and mr. mureşan, congratulations on your report. mr. commissioner, thank you for reminding us of the difficult path of croatia, which had a war on its territory and aggression against its own country. ladies and gentlemen, today is a good day for croatia, today is a good day for my country. i am proud to say in this house today that, as stated in the report, the introduction of the euro in croatia as of 1 january 2023 is supported; it is noted that croatia meets all the criteria for the introduction of the euro as a result of ambitious, determined, credible and sustainable efforts of the croatian government and the croatian people. thank you for that. we also received the council's proposal to abolish border controls from the beginning of next year. these are remarkable achievements in times of economic and security crisis, but also recognition that will mark ten years of croatian membership in the european union. with the announced accession to schengen, joining the euro area as its 20th member is further confirmation of our capabilities, ambition and commitment to the european union's integration processes. i call on you to support croatia's entry into the eurozone without reservation!
i thank the honourable member, the honourable member, the honourable member, the commissioner, and i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, and in particular my colleague mrs margarida, on this positive report. countless times it has been shown that in times of crisis like this, strength lies in community and integration. that is why further integration of croatia into the european union is positive for both sides. i believe that croatia's entry into the eurozone will strengthen both the croatian and the european economy. but we must not forget that the euro is not an end in itself, but a means to a better life for our citizens. quality control of the euro changeover process is crucial to save citizens from additional costs. we all need to work together to ensure that this positive news is reflected in the daily lives of our people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that croatia will adopt the euro. the introduction of the euro, however, did not bring much good to portugal, greece, or italy. we in croatia could delay the introduction of this currency, as poland, sweden or hungary did, countries which are doing very well with their currencies. so smart countries are working with other european countries, but they're also deciding when and how closely they're going to integrate. unfortunately, the rulers of croatia have never wanted to discuss it, nor have we ever used the advantage of having our own currency because for federalists of all colors the only political goal is the greatest possible integration of croatia into some european super-state, no matter which part of that integration is really good for us. the croatian government did not want to hold a referendum on when to introduce the euro, but i hope that we will fight for the future economic interests of the croatian people to be the first and main criterion of all economic decisions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is a beautiful moment that croatia is to become the 20th country of the eurozone this year, and our colleagues have already pointed out: croatia has worked hard to get here. because monetary union - and you always emphasize this, commissioner - is based on rules, and therefore those who, like croatia, respect the rules are ready for the euro. this is extremely positive, and we should therefore support the government's course accordingly and ensure that the common monetary policy of the euro area continues to follow the convergence criteria, because without fiscal discipline a monetary union cannot function. that is why, after a lot of hard work, croatia has finally proved itself for this accession. it has already been pointed out that such financial conditions do not exist everywhere in the european union. so the key is not just to get croatia into the euro in the coming months, but also to ensure that we get inflation in the euro area as a whole and the fiscal policies of the member states on a sound track.
mr. president, please! allow me to begin by congratulating the people and the people of neighbouring croatia, its government, on the successful implementation of all the reforms that have led to croatia meeting all the conditions for joining the euro area, and on the other hand, the people have also expressed their willingness to join the euro area framework. i come from slovenia, where after joining the european union in 2004, we decided to join the euro area in 2007. and if you ask today's economists, as well as the general public, what is the most important thing about joining the european union, the adoption of the euro is one of the biggest values that unites us today and also gives us a competitive area for our work. i am sure that croatia as a tourist country will benefit greatly from this entry into the euro area, but on the other hand, tourists coming to croatia will also be a little less downhearted when we lose money on currency exchanges, so congratulations croatia and much success on the challenging journey that still awaits you in the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think that this debate is confirming that we are discussing an historical step for croatia. i repeat that the convergence criteria were positively assessed by the commission and the ecb. now we will have, after your decision and the council decision, a common commitment on the changeover, which will be very important, especially in this environment of high inflation, and then croatia will continue on its path of reforms and investment, also supported by next generation eu. so there is a very good perspective for this country, but also progress for us, for the union. we have now almost 350 million european citizens sharing the same currency – 20 member states. so i think that with your support, with your decision, the european project will be stronger.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, thank you very much for this debate and for the overwhelming support in view of croatia joining the euro area on 1 january 2023. croatia will be stronger as a member of the euro area and the european union will also be stronger by having croatia as a member of the euro area. the people of croatia have shown their determination during the last years in strengthening their economy, in keeping croatia on course for further integration with the european union. now it is our duty to show our commitment to croatia and to vote by a large majority tomorrow in favour of accepting croatia into the euro area on 1 january. i am confident, following the interventions of the commission and of colleagues of various political groups, that croatia enjoys large support here in the european parliament, which it deserves. the government of croatia, under the leadership of prime minister plenković, the minister of finance, the authorities, the national bank especially, have prepared everything for the introduction of the euro area. we are confident that following the quick decision of the parliament tomorrow and the confirmation by the council on 12 july, the final technical preparations and the information of the population will take place, because the people of croatia deserve to know about the benefits of the introduction of the euro area. it will be easier for the people of croatia to travel to euro area countries. it will be easier for croatian businesses to export and it will be easier for companies from the euro area to invest into croatia. taking into account the fact that the people of croatia already have savings in europe, taking into account the fact that the major investment countries into croatia are euro area countries, we believe that croatia joining the euro area will lead to more benefits. we have seen, throughout the crisis, croatia meeting all of the criteria, and now croatia still is one of the countries of the european union with the lowest rate of inflation. this is why, once again, colleagues, thank you very much. congratulations to the people of croatia and we are looking forward to giving our positive vote tomorrow here in the european parliament.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday [06.07.2022].
the next item is the debate on the report by lina gálvez muñoz, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the poverty of women in europe (2021/2170ini) (a9-0194/2022). the first speaker is ms lina gálvez muñoz, rapporteur.
my friends, i have spoken several times in this house about the need to protect the environment. despite the political will, despite the strategies for roma integration at european and national level, despite the money, there are still a huge number of children without education. their parents are out of work. many roma live in conditions similar to those on the african continent. at a time when european towns and cities are building cycle paths, buying buses, renovating squares, roma children in the same localities are drinking water from the creek. in many towns and cities, we see how they can successfully draw on european money, but when it comes to projects for roma, that's where it stops. but, my friends, we cannot let this go. we cannot accept that the towns and cities do not want to go to the roman projects. i am pleased that next week, together with my colleagues from the regi committee, we will be visiting slovakia to look for solutions to finally make the money and strategies offered by the european commission a priority for the mayors. so that in the 21st century, in advanced europe, the roma can live with dignity as people.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr milan brglez, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, and mr sirpa pietikäinen, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the draft report on a common european policy on care (2021/2253 (ini)) (a9-0189/2022).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i want to thank you very much for your contributions. i was listening carefully and i’m really very grateful for the support of the european parliament in putting care high on the european agenda. i was listening carefully and what i heard is that all of you agreed that there is demographic change, that there is a change in family structure, and that we need the infrastructure, budget, public infrastructure. so this is what all of you said. a number of speakers referred to care not being an eu competence. this is what you said. there is no idea and there is no reason to interfere in the sovereignty of member states. but what we are trying to do, we do not question the sovereignty of member states. we are not planning to organise care at the european union level with a care strategy. we are only setting a policy framework to better structure mutual exchanges and to better structure the eu level, so that member states can learn from each other and the commission supports them with eu funding and research. nobody said that you don’t want funding, at the same time you don’t want to interfere into sovereignty, so nobody is interfering into sovereignty. but at the same time we are ready to invest in this. a few speakers also asked for care to be left for the families. yes, all of us know that care has traditionally been a family matter, but all of us also know that family structures are changing. families have fewer children. this is what some of you said. family members live further apart. women want a normal job – a normal and formal job, a normal career. and it’s not possible because of labour shortages. therefore, we can no longer rely on family care and we need to adapt our public services. this is what we are doing. so the european care strategy will call for better working conditions and wages, supported by strong dialogue and education and training to make care jobs more attractive. and as all of you know, we do not start from scratch. many european union initiatives you mentioned also already address the situation of care workers. and this strategy will call for better implementation and enforcement of this acquis to the care sector, and it will aim to trigger actions identifying specific implementation gaps. at the same time, the european care strategy will also aim to highlight the specific challenges of particularly vulnerable care workers, such as migrant workers, domestic workers and live-in carers. we will follow up on your report in finalising the care package and thank the european parliament for the work already done on putting the spotlight on the different aspects of care. we count on your continued active cooperation in ensuring that the strategy brings concrete benefits to the lives of all in the european union, making sure we leave no one and nowhere behind. and once again, i want to particularly thank our rapporteurs, milan brglez and sirpa pietikäinen.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you for the debate and thank you to the commissioner for the preparation about an eu care strategy. we just would like to encourage you to raise the ambition level, with this parliament’s support – which you can hear very strongly – and as i said, to take the informal carers’ situation into account. commissioner šuica, you quite rightly said that at the conference on the future of europe, citizens’ first priority was the care and social sector and the eu’s improvements there. and it is true that access to care is a human right. it is a constitutional right and it is the eu’s duty to take care of that. and so, no, it does not touch with the subsidiarity. we demand and we ensure that there is universal access to care when it is needed. then it is up to the member states how they organise it – public or private, informal/formal, community-based, personal budgeting – there are millions of ways and this is clearly said in the report. we do not touch with the subsidiarity. it is in no way threatened and there is no pressure on it. but if the quality and human rights is a pressure to the subsidiarity of member states, then i really do wonder. then, yes, i agree that it would be wonderful to also encourage the better use of digitalisation, research and innovation and the benefit of this knowledge at european level. this is the right place for the eu to support the member states and to create programmes and platforms, as it is called in this report, to support member states’ development. last but not least, if member states, by themselves, could solve the care issues, they would have done so already. and if they could take care of the cross-border needs of 8 million new people to be demanded in the sector, it would have happened already.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs maria walsh, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a directive on mental health in the digital world of work (2021/2098 (ini)) (a9-0184-2022).
mr. chairman, the pandemic, the long-term uncertainty, and the russian invasion of ukraine have further exacerbated what the polls have been showing for a long time. mental health is a neglected but deteriorating field. and that's true for adults, but even more so for children. these conclusions also stem from my meetings with experts, which confirmed to me that we face daily a shortage of specialised departments, a shortage of specialists and therefore very long waiting times. sometimes sad, sometimes life-threatening. so we should be mobilizing all our forces to manage this pandemic of mental health issues. and to do that, we need, and can use, a financial aid package from the recovery plan. let us see these unprecedented resources as an opportunity that we must use well. to do this, we must assess the situation and needs, set targets and, last but not least, be able to respond flexibly to developments by means of and through changes to the recovery plan. so that we can use these funds where they're needed most, including protecting the mental health of children and adults.
mr president, for too long mental health has been considered a taboo subject, even though millions of people are facing such situations. the isolation created by the pandemic, the shift to a digital dimension and the multiple crises we're going through have accentuated many of these trends. the absence of real prevention measures and the lack of digital literacy have led to new problems that we need, and we must, find new answers to. digital addiction, online bullying, fake news, born-out, abnormal teleworking and digital violence are just some of these new aspects. worse still, more and more young people and children are facing such difficulties, some even taking their own lives. among young people in romania, suicide is the second leading cause of mortality, and about 10% of them are experiencing depression as a result of the pandemic. in this context, i proposed a pilot project to develop the network of school counsellors and psychologists in schools and to develop programmes to provide integrated assistance to young people and families. we need solutions and we need to find a balance at european level to deal with this situation.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you all for this very inspiring debate. when more than 80 million europeans are suffering from mental disorders, mental problems, it’s really a european problem we have to take care of. and i think the debate shows that there’s a strong willingness to take care of this also at a european level. and i think we have an obligation, especially at the level of companies, at the level of employers, to protect employees’ health – physical and mental health. we have to work on stress, and we know that a lot of people are suffering from stress. there is an agreement, which was concluded in 2004 by social partners on stress. and i think we have one big issue. we can adopt a lot of new directives. the problem is prevention and implementation – to convince everybody, to convince mainly also employers, that stress at the working place is not good for the company. it’s not good for competitiveness. you cannot have a healthy company with sick people. and i think this is the work we now have to pursue collectively.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2022. in a few moments we will continue the debate, the discussion with the greek prime minister. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, thank you mr vice-president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, the cost of living crisis is indeed affecting everyone and especially low income households. but i would like to focus on one group in particular, and that is young people. because for too many young people in too many member states, even obtaining their own housing has now become an almost impossible problem, an impossible challenge. in 2020, the share of young people living with their parents was over 67% in the eu, and that was before the war. that was before the pandemic and before this crisis. as rents and property and property prices grow, housing as such basically becomes inaccessible to millions of young europeans, regardless of their social status. and now, of course, we must think about how to tackle inflation and energy prices, but i would really like to see a long-term solution for affordable housing to ensure that nobody is left behind and that young people have the opportunity that older generations, including my generation, have taken for granted.
mr president, if we were faced with the situation six months ago when the commission proposed to extend the taxonomy to include gas and nuclear, i would support the objection to this step. but new energy pricing and security challenges from the war in ukraine force us to look at the whole thing from a slightly different perspective. failure to include nuclear and gas could undermine our energy security, create pressure for further price increases and deepen poverty. i know that they are not green energy sources, but we need them in the transition. moreover, if we are to replace russian gas, we also need to invest in infrastructure capable of transporting lng from distant terminals to central europe. as for nuclear, take germany, which recently gave up nuclear power and now has to go back to coal, which probably won't speed up the reduction in emissions. the commission notes that the tax exemption for the electricity sector is not a tax exemption for the electricity sector. this will only increase the financial pressure on countries such as slovakia, which will have to invest even more in the necessary technological changes with their own taxpayers' money. in conclusion, i will summarize by saying that we have two choices. one is ideologically pure and the other is a compromise, but a rational and pragmatic one. i don't think that the second approach in any way reduces our decarbonisation targets.
mr president, the role of the green taxonomy was to make a very clear, unambiguous and precise list of green, renewable and sustainable technologies. there's a lot of interest in investing in these technologies, and there's a lot of need to invest in these technologies, because they define our path to saving the climate. the inclusion of gas and nuclear in the list weakens the list, contaminates it and misleads the list user. that's why i'm voting against. it's not a vote against the plan or the core. we're not in any way banning these resources, but it's a vote against green-lighting these technologies. every single euro that we spend on these technologies as green in self-deception will ultimately be wasted in supporting the truly green technologies that are at the forefront. that's why we're voting for clear rules. i vote for facts, i vote for green solutions, and i don't vote for greenwashing, i vote against taxons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great regret that i must say and note that this report is weak. this report is weak because it covers up the facts on the ground, on the spot. he does not disclose the circumstances as they are, and they are the following: the croatian community in bosnia and herzegovina is not guaranteed its rights of representation. croatian interests in bosnia and herzegovina are not guaranteed and they are threatened, they are violated. the balance between the three ethnic communities has been upset. and this report, instead of showing things as they are, is, as usual, full of nice but empty stories, clichés, wishes and other alabasterisms that aim to present a sugary picture that is not true. in order to have stability in bosnia and herzegovina, the croatian community must be represented on an equal footing, protected on an equal footing. everything else is in the service of belgrade and the kremlin.
member of the commission. – mr president, many thanks for this debate. calls were made concerning the candidate status for bosnia and herzegovina. let me underline that the commission will recommend bosnia herzegovina for candidate status. the commission will make such a recommendation to the eu council once a substantial set of reforms will have been implemented in line with the 14 key priorities that are set out in the commission’s opinion, following which, as we know, the council decides unanimously on granting candidate status. concerning the rights of constituent peoples of bosnia and herzegovina, i would like to underline that eu law explicitly forbids ethnic discrimination. collective rights can be made compatible with respect for individual rights, but all power-sharing arrangements that result in discrimination need to be revised as european standards have to be respected. bosnia and herzegovina needs to remove from its constitution all ethnic and residence-based discrimination in the election of the presidency and the house of peoples, as highlighted in the jurisprudence of the court of strasbourg. the 2019 commission opinion provides a detailed screening on what needs to be done. solutions should be in line with the eu’s values and standards and should not lead to further divisions. the upcoming 2022 enlargement package will be the occasion to take stock of our relations with bosnia and herzegovina. we expect to see concrete reforms on the 14 key priorities set out in the commission’s opinion. only by delivering on a substantial set of reforms will bosnia and herzegovina demonstrate that it can advance on its eu path. let me conclude by noting that next week we will commemorate the 27th anniversary of the genocide in srebrenica. with our work in support of the european future for bosnia and herzegovina we are also paying tribute to all the persons who perished in the war and in that genocide and to all survivors. it is also for this reason that the commission will continue supporting bosnia and herzegovina.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not i will inform rapporteur paulo rangel that the debate here has proceeded as expected. and that means that i think we here in the plenary are in the vast majority in support of the approach that has also been expressed here by commissioner lenarčič, namely that there is still some work to be done by those responsible in bosnia-herzegovina before they achieve this candidate status. the interesting thing is that you find out that there are 14 points, but it is not required that you have to meet all of them, but a substantial part of them. and i think that - as is always the case - if you find a willingness to compromise on the part of those concerned, if you put forward legitimate concerns and at the same time accept offers from the other side, you can reach a compromise. i think that if on the one hand the electoral law is changed in line with the wishes of the croatian people, then on the other hand perhaps the scope of the right of veto in the house of peoples could be reduced to the really essential points - if that could be a do ut des - then we can make progress. i think we're all in favor of no discrimination. we are all for making all citizens feel at home throughout the country. and we're all for keeping this country together. we must therefore tell those who want to divide this country - and mr dodik is the first to be mentioned - that this must stop and that this is not the way forward. i think that if we are willing to compromise and if we are able to apply pressure to the appropriate extent, we can also make progress. i wish that for the sake of the people of bosnia-herzegovina.
the debate on this issue is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr vladimír bilčík, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the 2021 report on serbia (2021/2249(ini)) (a9-0178/2022).
so, colleagues, i don’t want to repeat what you already know about the procedure for the debate, but just to remind you that for the blue cards we normally leave it for the first group representatives, so no asking for blue cards then, and then later on we can start with the blue cards.
rapporteur. – mr president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, it is my pleasure to present to you the 2021 report on serbia. let me begin by thanking all of those who have contributed to the report, especially my shadows. it was my ambition to set out a fair, realistic and accurate report on the current political developments in serbia with a particular focus on serbia’s eu path. the draft of this report was prepared as russia’s aggression against ukraine unfolded. and, as for most issues linked to world affairs, february 2022 was a defining moment that will change europe’s history and certainly europe’s future. we are committed to serbia’s european union accession. this is very clear and it is stated in the first paragraph of the report. the european parliament’s political priority has not changed over the years. it remains solid. this house remains a staunch supporter of eu enlargement. as the european parliament reiterates its support for serbia’s eu membership, it also recalls that a credible enlargement perspective requires political will, sustainable efforts and irreversible reforms in all areas, particularly those linked to the rule of law, as well as unwavering commitment to european standards and values. how do we measure the accession pace? the report reiterates that the progress on the rule of law and fundamental rights chapters, full alignment with eu foreign security and defence policy, including sanctions against russia, as well as the normalisation of serbia’s relations with kosovo, will determine the pace of accession. this is no news to our partners in serbia. the ep’s position has been clear on this point in many years and in other ep reports during previous years. and while repetition might sometimes seem a bit dull, it remains important to be consistent. certain open issues remain as open as they were at the opening of the accession negotiations. this regards improving electoral conditions, fight against corruption and organised crime, improving media environment, and repeated calls for cross—party consensus on eu—related reforms for ensuring the country’s progress on its eu path. and we do not have to look far in history. we can just look at this year’s events when we do regret that even after three months since the elections in april, we are still weeks away from forming a parliamentary majority in serbia. the official results were announced today and this is good news, i welcome it. and this happens, however, at a crucial time in europe’s history, marked by major geopolitical shifts, socio—economic problems, and as war in ukraine rages on, serbia is without a new government. so, i do believe valuable time is being lost. a time to make strategic choices is value even more. eu accession is serbia’s strategic priority and it is serbia’s strategic decision. so we need to see it treated strategically by political leadership in serbia. it is therefore important to start moving towards the eu, not sideways. this report is a complex political document that tackles the most pressing issues linked to serbia’s reforms and eu accession path. it is meant to be read as such. it is not a single—issue report, and credit is given where credit is due. for instance, in the successful conduct of the 2022 referendum on constitutional amendments. also, the april elections were a step forward compared to the 2020 elections, and rightly resulted in a more pluralistic parliament. we welcome the constructive role of the opposition and, as parliamentarians, are glad that an electoral boycott was averted. this resulted in a more pluralistic parliament, which is ultimately the most important thing in a modern parliamentary democracy. and i would like to take this opportunity to thank my former colleagues, tanja fajon and knut fleckenstein, for their work in the inter—party dialogue and pay tribute to the late eduard kukan, who worked on issues related to serbia’s eu future until the very last days of his life. i am sure he would like to see serbia moving forward on its european path, and as this report underlines, there is a clear map and a clear plan how this can be achieved. but the ball is very much in the hands of the new leadership, in the hands of the new government. and this relates to all the key issues which i have outlined: rule of law reforms, dialogue with pristina, as well as full alignment with the eu’s international positions. i hope we can make progress on this, and as the standing rapporteur of this house, i stand ready to help to work together with our partners in belgrade. and, of course, i look forward to listening to the commission, and also to colleagues, and i look forward to a fruitful debate on this report.
madam president, serbia is a beautiful country with great people, with a lot of cultural heritage. serbia is a large country compared to the others in the western balkans and an economically strong country. it could serve a lot for the region and for all europe. but i have to remind all of us about our decision in the plenary with a large majority on 1 march, about our deepest concern about serbian behaviour when it comes to war on european soil. this is why i highly appreciate the work of the rapporteur, vladimír bilčík, because it must be extremely hard to conduct a report on such a country with such leadership. we all have to learn our lessons from history. even we austrians had to learn our lessons from history, and we still have to. and it is also on serbia to learn the lessons from history, to align with europe and european values, to align with the sanctions which are the unbloody defence against the bloody war, and take the first in history, the status of our civilisation, for the sake of the serbian people themselves.
i would like to thank mr bilčík for his report. however, i would like to address a few problematic points which in any case do not show the sincere and genuine commitment of serbia to its european path. first of all, it's the suppression of media freedoms in serbia, which is why their citizens, i really believe, don't have a real insight into what's happening in their country. on the other hand, we don't have clear evidence and clear commitments, primarily foreign policy, which is very important, where serbia really wants to go. when we talk about the rule of law and democracy, i'm afraid that these are still unfamiliar terms for many serbian politicians. serbia must make it clear that it wants a genuine european path. this also means that it must respond to the question of the missing in the greater serbian aggression against the republic of croatia, which is an obligation, i remind you, built into the accession negotiations. walking on a wire and sitting on two chairs is not a sincere commitment to the european way. one eye on russia and the other on the european union and taking from one what is good for them and from the other what is good for them, and that is primarily the money of european citizens, is not an honest and good way.
madam president, yes, i agree, this serbia has no place in the european union. this is the same serbia that is provoking in kosovo. this is the same serbia that is provoking bosnia and herzegovina. this is the same serbia that supported russian propaganda during russia's war against ukraine. this is the same serbia that maintains the largest logistical intelligence spy center of russia in the balkans, in all of europe, it's located in the city of niš, i guess you all know that. this is serbia, which is crushing national minorities. here in this room, very often many of you defend various minority rights, where justified, where not, but today they are not, they are silent because we are talking about real problems. yes, this serbia oppresses the croats in its country, oppresses the bulgarians, violates their rights, crushes them, looks to disperse them, assimilate them, expel them and continues to behave in a way that is unacceptable and unacceptable. this is serbia today. i'm surprised there are people here who are literate. how do you think that if you continue to give in to those, the rulers in belgrade, who are proxies of the kremlin, they will what, become europeans all of a sudden? no, they won't. this serbia, which is a conduit for the kremlin and putin, has no place in the european union, understand this.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this discussion. i believe that these unprecedented times call for even stronger engagement with our western balkan partners, including serbia, in order to support the strategic decision to join the european union, which is also serbia’s strategic decision. i also believe that the russian aggression against ukraine is a wake—up call on the need to accelerate the accession process for the western balkans. we have no time to lose. the western balkans remain a priority for the european union. at the eu western balkans leaders meeting on 23 june, the eu leaders reiterated their full and unequivocal commitment to the eu membership perspective of the western balkans. they called for the acceleration of this process – however, based on credible reforms by partners, fair and rigorous conditionality and the principles of own merits. the european union will therefore continue its strong support – political, technical and financial – to all six partners in the western balkans to help them advance the key political, institutional, social and economic reforms which are necessary to achieve progress on their path towards eu membership. speaking about reforms, let me underline that the rule of law is a cornerstone of european values and it is a fundamental condition in the accession process. in 2020, the commission adopted the revised enlargement methodology, which puts fundamental reforms – especially the rule of law – even further at the heart of the process and of our engagement. this is also the case with serbia. the assessment of the progress of the countries on the eu reform path is subject to a long and thorough process. the final decision is made by the college as a collegial body, and this will also be the case for this year’s report. concerning alignment, let me repeat that serbia has demonstrated its commitment to eu values by aligning with several eu declarations and by supporting the relevant un general assembly resolutions on ukraine. nevertheless, as a candidate country, serbia is expected to progressively align its policies towards third countries with the policies and positions adopted by the european union, including restrictive measures. we are in contact with serbian authorities to help them to increase the alignment rate with the eu common foreign and security policy, including restrictive measures against russia. we count on serbia, as a sincere european partner to stand with us and our common values, security and prosperity. on the commission side, we will continue to do all we can to speed up serbia’s pace of negotiations and support the eu perspective of the western balkans as a whole.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i want to thank all of you who took the floor today. i would like to thank those who see serbia as a strategically important partner in the western balkans, and who understand that serbia’s successful eu path is more important now than ever. i have noted all of your concerns and i will communicate them to the serbian political leadership. let me just say three things. one: accession talks are not single issue talks. serbia did open cluster 4 last year and can make progress on accession talks if it makes progress on domestic reforms. i do believe – and this is my second point – that serbia belongs in the european union. but much has to be done by the leadership and the new government and new parliament in belgrade. third point, when i look at the past 100 years of serbian history, i certainly do not see russia as playing a dominant role. i hope that all the relevant pro-european and serbian political forces can discover and rediscover this part of their history and base their decisions on this when looking to the future. i am convinced that serbia has a european future and serbia’s place is among the eu member states. but at the same time, after the april 2022 elections and russia’s war aggression, there is a real sense of urgency that all parties in serbia move forward decisively on their european path. this report reflects factually on the complex political reality in serbia and encourages all pro-european forces in that country to focus fully on progress in rule of law reforms, the belgrade—pristina dialogue and alignment with eu international positions. we note – and i think all of us heard it today – that much can be done for serbia’s move towards the european union. as the european parliament’s rapporteur, i stand ready to engage with the new leadership in belgrade in order to work on the european future of serbia.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the council and parliament for their support for the introduction of the euro in croatia. the council also recognised the changed geopolitical circumstances and finally sent a clear political signal on the european union's readiness for further enlargement. the european perspective is confirmed for three countries that deserve it, and because of the resistance to putin's russia, support is what they really need. however, the western balkans can unfortunately be described with less optimism. conclusions, except to some extent in the case of bosnia and herzegovina, no progress has been recorded. the european perspective in this region was confirmed 19 years ago. the blockades to the opening of negotiations with albania and north macedonia threaten european credibility. this just goes to show that the european union needs to reform itself in parallel to make these decisions more effective. bosnia and herzegovina has been given a chance in an election year, but the ruling politicians must not repeat the mistakes of the past. the changed geopolitical circumstances should be an incentive to change the political relations in the country, certainly for the better. bosnia and herzegovina is waiting for a place in the european union. any real progress on that path will have our support.
mr president, commissioner, it was an important step by the summit to grant the status of candidate country to ukraine and moldova, as well as to georgia, subject to certain conditions. these countries have shown a strong desire to join the european union. ukraine is fighting for freedom and democracy. it must be supported by all means. the same applies to the path of these applicant countries towards membership of the european union, as well as the path of the western balkan countries. it is clear that full membership will require major reforms and major developments on the part of all, but the european union must also be reformed. we have about a dozen applicant countries and it is clear that the european union must strengthen its economic structures, strengthen the rule of law and increase its own foreign policy decision-making capacity in order to be ready for this enlargement. it is very regrettable that the member states have not taken up this parliament's initiative calling for reforms of the european union.
mr president, the european union, respecting its history, its principles and its values, has very rightly stood unreservedly by the side of the ukrainian people and ukraine in the face of a barbaric russian invasion. we have from the outset stood unreservedly by the ukrainian people and in ukraine, because we know what invasion means and we are unwaveringly in favour of international law. but i must tell you that this month, july, for my country is a black month. this is a nightmare. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i am asking the european commission and the european council today to tell me what message i will send to my own people in difficulty, to the 200,000 refugees in difficulty who are in the refugee camps and awaiting the hour of their return, when in this room turkey continues to be called a strategic partner, when turkey continues to receive money from the european union and when turkey's weapons are turned against our own people.
mr president, i would like to draw the council's attention to the need to give a political impetus to the new pact on migration and asylum, which is not in the conclusions because there is not a second to lose. there are five regulations from 2022 and four pending from the previous legislature. it is essential that everyone should move forward in a balanced way, as the road map signed by this european parliament states, so that there is no border control without binding, credible and effective solidarity. i would also like to see it clearly stated that the external borders of the european union are those of a united europe, of a union. so there cannot be a northern perspective that prevails over the southern, or a western perspective that prevails over the eastern. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the present crisis.
mr president, commissioner, i am sure sorry we no longer have the council here, it is probably on its way somewhere, mr president. i wanted to tell him that he informed us here that he had prepared a european political community. i wanted to remind him that, historically, the european union is supposed to be an economic community. and what are we doing about it: for the people of the european union, for the states that are lagging behind, for the regions that need more cohesion, for the citizens? what do we do about the food crisis? what do we do about the energy crisis? and i wanted to ask mr. president: what is happening in the netherlands? my country had an unjust resolution. in the netherlands, i see that the governments have pulled out the police and are shooting at the farmers, at those farmers who provide our food in the european union. but unfortunately, we have nowhere to turn. mr vice-president of the commission, please inform the president and i want an answer. do we or do we not have one union? will my country be in schengen or not?
mr president, i am glad that the chamber is full now and that everyone will listen. in june’s conclusion of the european council, there was another call on turkey to respect international law and terminate its unilateral and aggressive actions in the eastern mediterranean. however, i would like everyone to remember that in march 2021, the statement of the european council – i am reading straight from it – stated, ‘we call on turkey to abstain from renewed provocations or unilateral actions in breach of international law.’ would you affirm the determination of the european union, in case of such actions, to use the instruments and options at its disposal to defend its interests and those of its member states? my final word: we stand with international law against putin’s aggressive actions in ukraine. we stand with the values of the european union and we expect everyone to respect the values that are being violated in the eastern mediterranean against cyprus and against greece by a turkish aggressive regime.
member of the commission. – mr president, mr minister, honourable members, i will be very brief because i know that we have a very important and exciting voting session ahead of us. so allow me just a few brief remarks. first and foremost, i would like to thank all the honourable members for the strong support for the candidate status of ukraine and moldova. i would like to respond to mr mureşan and others who have been pleading with the european commission to make sure they will provide them all the necessary technical assistance so they will be prepared for the eventual opening of the enlargement negotiations and to prepare them for the necessary reforms. it was part of the debate we had with the czech presidency, in particular i think, that new member states can share a lot of experience from the transformation process, from the process how to be best prepared for these negotiations. ms niebler and mr olekas just a few minutes ago have been calling for more assertive, clearer policy towards the western balkans. i think it was clearly one of the conclusions and the feeling of the leaders after the conclusion of the summit with the western balkans, that indeed we have to do much more, because what the western balkan leaders would like to see is more tangible efforts, a clearer path to accelerated accession talks and clearer results which they can present to the citizens. so we are, of course, reflecting together with you, with our member states, on how to bring this new energy and new impetus into the whole process. you know that the commission is wholeheartedly behind these efforts. we have seen positive developments in north macedonia. we hope that this process will unblock the further steps for north macedonia and albania, and if it comes to bosnia and herzegovina, will be working together with the member states and with all of you and with bosnia herzegovina to make sure that these 14 very important criteria are appropriately fulfilled so it could open the doors for further steps for bosnia and herzegovina as well. ms bonafè, ms aubry and ms vautmans have been referring to the importance of making sure that we would respect the citizens’ demands, proposals, propositions, requests which they presented during the conference on the future of europe. i would like to reassure all of you that in the first speech the president of the european commission will make in september on the state of the union, you will see the reflection of how the commission wants to respond and how the commission wants to guarantee the follow—up to the results of the conference on the future of europe and how we want to incorporate it into the commission work programme already for next year. on the crucial question of the convention, again i would like to underscore our readiness. once the decision is taken, we will do our utmost to play our part to make sure that our european union is better and stronger. the last two points. one, on energy related issues. we of course are heading towards a very difficult period – i think we see it every day – and therefore we are working around the clock to make sure that on 20 july we will adopt the set of measures which would constitute a european emergency plan for any eventualities which could meet us in this very difficult energy landscape. we want to make sure that solidarity, of course, will be the anchor of all the rules and processes we would propose, and of course we’ll be very happy to share and discuss this with the european parliament. the last point and the clear answer to ms grapini – because i am sure that this house knows very well, but i think it’s worth repeating – is that if it comes to romania, bulgaria, croatia, we are strong economies. they are prepared for schengen membership and that should happen sooner rather than later, because it would make the european union more secure and stronger.
thank you very much, mr vice—president. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – the council meeting of 23–24 june has fast-tracked eu candidate status for ukraine and moldova and closer status for georgia. the speed used for granting this status is tied to the ongoing russian invasion. however, the long-term political implications must be kept in mind. on the basis of prevailing rules, the process for these countries to attain membership will take years, perhaps decades. the underlying political rationale could fade or alter with time. consider turkey, where claiming that only this country has shown bad faith in its accession process is not tenable. disillusionment or worse bitterness could eventually colour the relationship between the eu and accession aspirants. as has happened with the eu’s candidacy outreach to the balkan states. on a more fundamental basis, the eu needs to face out the strategic question that old-timer henry kissinger has clearly defined: post putin and post the eu’s current leaders, europe will still have to define what relationship it wants with russia. does it want russia as a full partner in a european system or would it like russia as an asian power to be held at arm’s length? mitterrand and de gaulle also raised the question and their concerns were side-lined. how sad and short-sighted.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
it is rejected. that means that parliament has not objected to the commission delegated regulation of 9 march 2022.
it is rejected, so parliament has not objected to the delegated regulation of 28 april 2022.
in place of the rapporteur. madam president, i shall speak very briefly before the vote opens because, unfortunately, the issues relating to the committee on fisheries seem to be of little importance to certain groups which, session after session, deny the possibility of them being discussed and having visibility in the house. the report we are now voting on, drawn up by mr nuno melo, is as important and substantial as the others. it is urgent to ensure that the fight against the negative impact of the war in ukraine is included in the objectives of the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund. the fisheries and aquaculture sectors are crucial in the european union and therefore the union must intervene to minimise this impact and ensure the survival of businesses and jobs. the financial package we are going to put to the vote will allow for the use of additional crisis measures to support the union's fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the context of the russian invasion of ukraine, will make available union funding to compensate for additional costs, loss of income and storage of products, as well as the temporary cessation of fishing activities, and will extend aid to companies that temporarily cannot continue fishing due to economic constraints. the final adoption of this legislative proposal will provide much needed support to fishermen and the aquaculture sector in record time and with retroactive effect, as businesses will be compensated for the impact of the crisis from february this year. the report was unanimously approved in the committee on fisheries and we hope that it will also receive broad support in parliament today.
madam president, in the light of the developments in the region last week, which have raised tensions in the region but also put into question the eu—facilitated dialogue between belgrade and pristina, i propose to move the following oral amendment on the 2021 report on serbia. after paragraph 78, it should read as follows:‘regrets the rising tensions related to attempts at resolving the issues of licence plates and freedom of movement in kosovo; reiterates the crucial importance of addressing all outstanding issues through the belgrade-pristina dialogue transparently, consequently, timely and in good faith.’
madam president, colleagues, the discussion of how the russian government is supposedly supporting extremists in europe strikes me as a bit cynical. first of all, for you, an extremist is almost anyone who has an opinion that doesn't agree with the prescribed opinion. if a person says that he does not want a third world war with the russian federation or he does not want an energy collapse in europe, he is automatically labeled as an extremist who needs to be put in a box. secondly, you're talking about extremists in europe. and i ask, who are the ones in the ukraine? now i'm not talking about ordinary ukrainians protecting their country. i'm talking about militias like the kraken, the freikorps or the azov battalion, which has the logo of the nazi, nazi division of the ss right in the symbol. and suddenly, no one seems to mind. they're west, west is supplying them with weapons and money. if we're going to be fair, let's condemn this extremism, because it's just as bad as all the extremism you're talking about. otherwise, it is sheer hypocrisy.
mr. president, russian television stations have already been banned. talks with the russian government or ambassadors are now being demonized. the whole eu is permeated by the smell of the fear of losing control over the propaganda that is poured out on us every day. the eu elite wants to make objective media, real opposition and criticism impossible. it happened with the criticism of islam, it happened with the criticism of immigration, it happened with the criticism of the brexit party, it happened with the criticism of the trump party, and it happened with the criticism of the coronavirus pandemic. that's what's happening now around the invasion of ukraine. we do not need the money from russia to undermine democracy in the eu. we already have the money from pfizer for that. first came state control of social media and now there must be laws to curb critical parties and silence critical opposition leaders. and that's called dictatorship. it's called oppression. that is the true, ugly face of the eu. and we want a free netherlands, a netherlands from the eussr.
madam president, madam commissioner, we really cannot be naive any longer and we must openly admit that vladimir putin is at war with the whole of europe and is tearing apart our democracy from within. he does so with one aim, and that is to destroy the european project, the european rules, because they are a threat to him. and he's not doing it alone, he's doing it with the help of a whole network of extremist individuals, groups spread across the european union. and it's not just extremist political parties or disinformation websites or actors like that. often they are also public officials. in this context, i cannot help but mention the attorney general in my country of slovakia, who signed, signed just before the war, a memorandum of cooperation with the russian prosecutor's office. these are things that we can no longer ignore, and if we really want to stop putin, we need to not just admit it, but we need to think about how to deal with these kinds of situations in a democratic and legitimate way.
mr. chairman, we are in an unprecedented crisis. while large energy companies get rich and make windfall profits, more and more people fall into energy poverty. the european commission's proposal to introduce this tax can therefore help raise the money needed to finance the fight against the energy crisis, but above all it can at least partially offset high energy prices. but then this tax should not only apply to energy companies, but we should also impose it on companies that have made profits during the coronavirus pandemic, for example, and on large pharmaceutical companies, and on digital giants, especially the so-called gafam five. it should be stressed that such a tax has already been introduced in italy, the united kingdom and romania, and there are different reactions to it everywhere. but is the tax on increased energy companies necessary in all? i don't think he did. this is why the european commission has not dared to propose a europe-wide tax, but has only encouraged member states to introduce it. people don't care what form we take to get money from the increased profits of the energy sector, but they expect us to do it now.
in writing. profits are taxed, expected and unexpected. higher profits are already taxed higher. this is the social contract in successful economies. if we wanted to violate it more often, for example by raising special taxes on profits, we would reduce investment in the businesses and industries concerned in the long run. below the level expected by businesses and citizens. for example, to cleaner and more efficient technologies.
madam president, i will try to remember it, thank you for the floor. i welcome the fact that in this report the european parliament asks the commission to evaluate the effectiveness of the budget for years 14 to 20 so that we can learn from the results achieved with european money in the past when drawing up future budgets. however, the report lacks the idea that the first condition for evaluating effectiveness is that we have defined in advance the precise criteria and measurable outcome indicators by which we will assess whether we have been successful in achieving our objectives. the european court of auditors also points out in its performance report on the budget for years 14 to 20 that it has been mainly output-oriented and that there has been no significant shift towards measuring results. i think measuring results is also the best protection against fraud and corruption.
(start of speech off-mic) global deforestation that cannot be done without europe. and in that regard, i am very happy that this house is ready to acknowledge our responsibility in tackling this issue. the final text is very well balanced. it is based on solid science, and all we need is to support it. what i am, however, concerned about is a lack of coherence with other legislation, and in particular the renewable energy directive, and the way it treats woody biomass. we cannot fight deforestation and at the same time ask for increasing wood harvest and burning of wood, relieve the criteria of sustainability and allowing massive subsidies and distortion of market. we are losing forest carbon sinks, forest resilience and biodiversity, all because we are putting too much pressure on our forests and we might be proposing to push even more. the critical condition for sustainable forest management, however, is based upon the premise that we also have to allow the forest to rest, grow and adapt. please keep this in your mind during the crucial votes this week and stop burning trees for energy.
mr president, what is happening in greece, which is the responsibility of mitsotakis, is undermining democracy and the rule of law. i clashed with him over issues of restricting media freedom, covering up the novartis scandal and prosecuting tulupaki, vakshevani and papadakus. but it's getting worse. mitsotakis admitted that the national intelligence service was monitoring socialist leader androulakis, and has handed journalists and politicians over to predator. authoritarianism is due to the mitsotakis mentality, widespread government corruption and the worsening economic and social crisis. i call on you to stand up for human rights and the rule of law in greece, because this is also a european issue. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, and has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is resolved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revelations about the use of the predator spyware and wiretapping in greece have become the subject of a scandal involving intelligence services, government authorities and software suppliers. the seriousness of this incident demonstrates how difficult it is to protect against the misuse of current computer surveillance systems, how difficult it is to identify responsibility and even to distinguish between lawful and unlawful activities. we cannot ignore the dangers to the institutions, their representatives and their citizens. when people like my colleague nikos androulakis, a member of an opposition party in his country, or investigative journalists dealing with banking crimes, corruption, refugees, are targeted in the european union, the problem is obviously not just national, but european: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. we need a european legal framework that is clear on surveillance technologies and services and that is able to put in place control mechanisms and tools that enable citizens to defend themselves against violations of their rights.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues. i welcome today’s debate, which reflects the importance that the pega inquiry committee attaches to this topic. parliaments across the european union must have appropriate scrutiny over matters such as the recent developments in greece. equally, political institutions, including the european parliament, must guarantee safety to their representatives. in this context, i do welcome and will observe closely the work of the greek parliament’s investigative committee. this investigative committee, as well as our own pega committee, are crucial for understanding the situation in greece. we need clear communication about the use of these systems in greece. we also need transparency and political leadership in making all facts available to the public. there are issues with spyware technologies and their usage across multiple eu member states. our answer must be based on solid rule—of—law principles. where the rule of law is robust, there is less doubt on the use of spyware. striking a balance between legitimate surveillance respecting all legal provisions and eradicating the misuse of these systems is hard but crucial. we must find this balance, colleagues. otherwise, we risk losing european society’s trust in democratic institutions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the devastating consequences of the measures to combat covid for some sectors and the surge in raw material prices following the russian invasion, the weather conditions and the extraordinary drought of recent months have brought the entire agri-food sector to its knees, especially in the mediterranean regions. it is time for strong responses so that our farmers can continue to guarantee the food security of the european citizens. we therefore welcome the derogations from the requirements of the cap to increase our production potential, but we do not understand how this choice by the commission can be reconciled with self-destructive measures such as the proposal for a regulation on plant protection products which, without offering concrete alternatives to the use of chemicals, would lead to losses of up to a fifth of our production. the union must give our farmers all the tools they need to continue producing sufficient, sustainable and quality food and not set unrealizable targets at the expense of producers and consumers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? one and a half degrees. that's the endgame. it's the dream scenario of the paris agreement. but a planet that has warmed by one and a half degrees, that's not a dream planet. extreme weather events are affecting not only europe but the whole world. the forests of southern europe are burning. 20 of the world's 37 groundwater reserves are running out. water that has accumulated since time immemorial is drying up, rotting away, and disappearing for good, as pakistan and other parts of the world are flooded. and this is just the beginning. the major food producers bear witness to the crisis, but little is being done to mitigate its effects. because politics has been sticking its head in the sand for too long, we must now prepare for a 1.5 degree warming. the most important thing is a strong climate policy, but we also have to deal with climate change. we need to get our communities on board, because water is going to run out faster, fires are going to burn more, and storms are going to get worse if we don't do something. that is what i am voting for today: to act quickly and to act now.
mr president, commissioner, unfortunately we have to lament for another year the numerous forest fires which have ravaged europe during the summer. for spain, portugal and other countries in the south, this is a terrible threat, made worse by climate change. fire knows no borders and therefore greater coordination and work at european level is needed. the union's civil protection mechanism must be strengthened and the purchase of more aircraft financed: i welcome what i have heard from you, commissioner, about aircraft. my region, galicia, boasts one of the best firefighting services in the union. the work of galician firefighters has been highly praised in spain and in countries such as portugal. the law on the comprehensive fight against forest fires in galicia will consolidate this path of excellence in the defence of the mountain. it is very important, commissioner, that the integrated firefighting centre in the town hall of toén in galicia, in the province of orens, should become a genuine forestry campus of international importance. this centre will undoubtedly be a reference in training for firefighters throughout europe and should therefore receive the firm support of the european commission and european funding.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe has witnessed another summer of extreme weather, with intense drought, huge fires and scorching heat. it's the heat that kills the most people. that is why greener cities, emergency aid from the eu, better climate adaptation are important. but the fact is that only reduced emissions can save our future generations, as well as our vulnerable and fragile and elderly today. i worry when more and more right-wing politicians talk about pausing climate change and postponing drastic action for the future - this despite the fact that study after study shows how serious the situation is and that we actually also have more fruits to reap from changing it faster. no, instead we need to increase our climate ambitions, accelerate renewables and become fossil-free. the extreme weather of spring and summer can only be interpreted in one way: eu climate policy must move faster.
mr. president, i have to go. drought, fire, climate change. those are the words we've been repeating this summer. so i also want to thank the firefighters, volunteers and police officers who have helped people in the worst fires across europe and in slovenia. the biggest fire in slovenia's history took place in krasu, where planes from croatia, austria, slovakia, hungary and romania also flew in, so i am also very supportive of the resceu programme. agriculture is a big casualty in the dry areas, too. we must therefore play an active role in agriculture, by building irrigation systems that are modern and economical, and by building reservoirs to prevent our water from running downstream. slovenia has a very large water drainage. as a fruit grower myself, i saved three acres of apple orchards this year with about 1,800 cubic yards. so solutions can be effective even with little water consumption.
mr. chairman, the climate crisis is turning into a climate catastrophe. drought, fire and extreme heat. this is something we brought on ourselves. and not just because we brought it on ourselves. we're not even prepared for this situation. we didn't adapt. and so in addition to reducing emissions, we need to adapt. it has to be something that's not an option. it must be something that is mandatory. that's why i welcome the commission's proposal for nature restoration legislation, which will be very important because nature is the solution, not concrete. that's why i expect to see a land conservation bill, because the land has really suffered tremendously this summer. but at the same time, we have to make sure that the money, the public money that we give to the development of europe, that goes to support agriculture, is tied to adaptation measures. it's not something we can do. it's something we have to do. because otherwise, we're not gonna get through this crisis.
mr president, the reform of the directive should have been about reforming the use of biomass for energy purposes, so that we do not destroy our forests in a futile attempt to save the climate by burning wood. it was necessary to limit the subsidisation of wood burning and to prohibit the inclusion of wood burning in renewable energy sources. that was the position of the envi committee. instead, we have a compromise proposal that defines primary biomass that is not eligible for subsidies, but at the same time applies a huge exemption to primary biomass that is logged, which represents more than half of the amount of timber that we can subsidise. the remaining primary subsidy is also included in the consumption share on a basis of 2007 to 2022, which is unknown and allows for an increase in the extraction of wood. for me, unfortunately, that's a red line. the red line that the reform has taken, a well thought-out reform for renewable energy, which applies a number of good steps for wind, solar, geothermal, but opens the way for a european biomassass, and i do not intend to support it.
in writing. in order to combat climate change, the proposers of the directive propose to increase the share of renewable energy sources (res) in eu energy consumption to 45%. environmental protection, including the fight against climate change, must also be done effectively. the relevant directive does not yet provide for this. the commission notes that the slovak authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures are in line with the market economy operator test. because there's a risk that we're spending a lot of money on these goals and we're not stopping climate change. that's why i voted against it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the massive increase in energy prices and the shortage of electricity, gas and oil are putting a huge strain on households and businesses. the current energy crisis is threatening livelihoods across europe. so there is indeed an urgent need for action. as an economist, i want to tell you very clearly: it is absolutely clear that this crisis cannot be solved by austerity and austerity alone. we are experiencing a supply shock which cannot be met by reducing demand alone, at least not without completely destroying the foundations of our prosperity. we must increase the supply of energy, and to do this we must use all available sources of energy in the short term. it is symptomatic that the ministers of the eu countries, when they met last week, did not work out any solutions to this problem and instead focused on the exploitation of corporate profits. it is a sign of catastrophic incompetence that the german federal government continues to insist on the nuclear phase-out of the largest eu country, thereby putting our common prosperity in existential danger.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the situation has been described by many colleagues: we are faced with horrendous prices which are a huge burden on private households and are driving businesses into ruin. what's the answer? i am quite frank with you, commissioner, we do not need deficiency management, we need to remedy the deficiency. i have been reading green papers and commission action programmes for over 20 years, and i have been wondering why, for example, the european demand for energy should be concentrated. when, if not now, is the time to pool the power of demand and look at what is available on the world markets as the european union? it is not enough to go to qatar, as the german energy minister did, and then turn around and come back without a supply contract, because it is not ideologically acceptable to sign a 20-year supply contract. we really need solutions now that help on the spot. they will not permanently eliminate the problems by intervening in the market, but will rather create more chaos. that is why i warn against working here with short-term measures - excess profits taxes, market design interventions and the like. we don't want to cause the blackout ourselves, but we should prevent it together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is clear to all of us today that: the most serious threat to the citizens of europe is the unstoppable rise in gas prices, with repercussions that are destroying entire industrial realities and killing the real economy and the life of even average families. we must therefore get to the root of the problem. the subsidies are not enough, the state aid is not enough, we cannot go on indefinitely with these means. we ask the commission to prepare, after last week's council meeting, concrete and courageous proposals because it is already too late, it is already too late to introduce a ceiling on gas prices. a cap on gas prices means that in europe no buyer buys above a certain price and in this way it is the buyers who will determine the market rules, not the seller, who will be able to simply burn his gas, as he has already done, but also burn his revenue. it has to be done, it takes courage, it takes clarity. finally, on the subject of the ttf platform: i do not really understand why the commission is so cautious, so cautious in taking action: there's a problem of transparency, there's a problem of unfair market, there's a problem of at least manipulation in that market. you need to get your hands on it. don't you want to stop that business? change the reference market for the gas price, let's get off that rig! that platform is made up more by finance than energy operators. you have to intervene!
madam president, commissioner, i am afraid that all the crises and problems we have experienced in recent years may be nothing compared to what the energy crisis may cause. because it's not going to affect just select sectors or just vulnerable groups, it's going to affect everyone and it's going to affect everything. if we do nothing, in some countries, household energy bills can reach completely absurdly drastic numbers, a few percent of gdp. it's really not manageable. and if we do nothing, the economy will collapse, schools will close, our industries will freeze. and on top of all that, oil and gas companies are making historic profits. so the next few days, the next few weeks, are going to be critical. just as during the pandemic, people rightly expect a european solution, price stability, compensation for households, aid for companies, but also a tax on excess profits. and it's really simple. either we agree quickly, or the europeans will judge, quite rightly, that when the going gets tough, the european union cannot be trusted.
madam president, commissioner, we are facing a very difficult winter. many businesses are going bankrupt, production is being curtailed, and there are layoffs. and the fall of many households into poverty. in addition to measures such as the price stability of various energy sources or, where appropriate, the limitation of the income of some energy companies producing electricity at low production costs, which must be temporary, we need other measures. and that is, above all, a rapid and adequate response to our people who rightly ask us for help. and they don't care if we do it by taxing the excess profits of the energy companies or by subsidizing the energy prices of these companies. simply put, we have to transfer these billions from these rich companies to the poorer people and especially to households. it's now clear that putin's not the only one who's in college, that's just an excuse. but also our bad decisions from the past and also the speculation of various hedge funds, especially on the amsterdam stock exchange, where as we know, with borrowed money they can push gas prices up. if we are talking about the solidarity of europe's water supplies, it cannot be just a recommendation to heat less or to save less light. we cannot tell the poor to save, because that is as absurd as telling the hungry to eat less. we simply need strong social measures. and those governments that have structural funds that are not used up must be given the opportunity to use them for social compensation for households and businesses.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, you said a moment ago that the european union must root out corruption from its own ranks. so i ask you, in the spirit of that, why don't you release your communications with the ceo of pfizer for the purchase of the 30 billion euro vaccine? why are you hiding this from the public and why are you currently hiding it from the auditors? because this is the real picture of the european union. is this what you call transparency? on this basis, do you want european citizens to trust the european union? you said that europe has already given ukraine more than 90 billion euros. and i ask myself again, perhaps uncomfortably, where does this money come from and at what cost? where's this money going? who's this money going to? aren't they being stolen by some oligarchs? does anyone really control where these billions of europeans go? are these now toxic questions that we can't ask because it might make someone uncomfortable? you know, i refuse to accept that the european union or europe is only meant to serve some multinational corporations or the interests of the great powers. we'll point that out again and again because that's our job.
in writing. some of the measures proposed by commission president ursula von der leyen to address the energy price crisis are moving in the right direction, coming too late. in a europe whose people are paying a high price for our support for ukraine, we need strong and swift action. people don't care what measures we take, but we need to do it now. the billions of euros that some big companies have made speculating on energy prices must be put into the budgets of households and businesses that are in trouble. the measures proposed do not seem to me to be sufficient in this respect, and even the energy savings recommended for people already living on the poverty line seem absurd, as if we were recommending that the hungry eat even less.
mr president, i do not agree with the european parliament's motion for a resolution on hungary. there is probably no state in europe which is more or less free from the shortcomings arising from article 2 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. but you chose hungary, only hungary, or poland. it's simple, let's be honest with each other. you are disturbed that despite the european union's extensive campaign against mr. orbán and the fidesz party, the citizens of hungary have decided to re-elect a christian conservative government in free and democratic elections. this is an objective fact and an undeniable fact. you are hungarian barats! the tartsatok ki! the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the eu is a key player in the fight against terrorism. hungary and slovakia, and they'll be all of us! hungary, fel and fejjel!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to make a few remarks on a subject which we have discussed repeatedly in this house, namely the situation of human rights and the rule of law, that is, european values, in hungary. the debate here is really recurring. i remember speaking at a debate on a law in hungary that deals with sex education in schools, which suppresses the rights of sexual minorities to education. and the question is, are we not, by this perpetually recurring debate, degrading the problem a little bit? we should be more reactive and maybe less debating this. i would therefore like to see the debate at council level moving forward, so that the member states can also say whether they consider that hungary is in breach of article 7 (1) and whether this is a problem that should ultimately lead, for example, to restrictions on voting rights. otherwise, we'll be in a permanent debate and the value of that debate will degrade. i, like some of my colleagues, believe that the rule of law and human rights are being violated in hungary. i was working on the school education bill. i think that the non-profit organizations here are clearly describing that this is an attack on lgbt rights, and therefore the european union should act on this issue, in short, decide. either the proceedings are closed and the rule of law and human rights are not violated, or the sanction is chosen. i don't think the constant debate is going to do any good.
mr president, nobody is free until we are all free. mr president, in 1956, hungarians united in their revolution against the soviets, fighting for their basic universal freedoms. inspired by their innate european values, together, they achieved their dream: freedom, culminating in european union membership in 2004. yet today we see those freedoms under threat. some hungarians today cannot even simply be who they are and love who they want without facing the direct persecution of their own government. what greater breach of eu values is there than not allowing citizens to be their own authentic selves and protect them? a breakdown of fundamental rights where minorities are not protected means a breakdown of the rule of law. and it is for this reason that the hungarian government, not its people, must pay the consequences, as this morning president of the commission, ursula von der leyen said. so i wish and hope that the commission walks the talk.
sorry mr engerer, are you ready to take a blue card from ms tóth?
i don’t want to give more time to the extremists in this parliament, thank you.
mr president, mr commissioner, i’m afraid that four years after triggering article 7, one thing has become clear, and that is that mr orbán has chosen kleptocracy over democracy, putin over europe and corruption over the rule of law. now all of us have to live with the consequences of the weakness of the council for years, which has allowed mr orbán to undermine our founding values. now we are in a situation where hungary unfortunately backs russia in a systemic way, vetoing all sanctions, opposing sanctions against russian oligarchs and undermining the eu’s efforts to move away from russian gas. as we face one of the greatest crises in our continent, there is no more any excuse for carrying out with the ostrich politics of the past. otherwise, we, all of us, will pay a very high price, not just in terms of our unity and our values, but in terms of our security and literally our energy bills. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
it's a yellow card speech. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to excuse me. you were talking about kleptocracy. your colleague guy verhofstadt received public funds from the flemish government, the province of east flanders and the city of ghent to renovate his luxury private villa: eur 327 784. public money in the private pocket of a politician. now that's corruption! this question about guy verhofstadt, do you want to deal with a liberal politician?
blue-card reply. – well, my dear colleague unfortunately, corruption in a systematically major scale is what the hungarian government is perpetrating with all of our money, all of european union’s money. and it’s not me saying it’s olaf saying it. it’s the actual european commission mechanism for conditionality is precisely a response to systematic corruption with european union funds that is taking place in hungary. that is why i said it’s a kleptocratic regime, because it’s not just one, it is not one case of corruption, it’s a system that is built like that. this is precisely why we need the conditionality. and it’s precisely why hungary is not part of the european public prosecutor, it’s a way the government functions, i’m sorry.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. respect for the rule of law is a convenient pretext for a real witch hunt against all states wishing to show a little firmness in migration matters - as we know, this is the case in hungary. for viktor orbán's fiefdom, the addition is currently €7.5 billion of eu funds. the report adopted by the european parliament caricatured the distortions of democratic functioning, calling the hungarian government a hybrid regime of electoral autocracy. this does not, however, prevent fidesz from showing a brazen health at the ballot box, as the relatively recent municipal elections have shown. in short, hungary is one of the most telling examples of the gulf which now separates the people from the european elites.
in writing. orbán is afraid because after 12 years of stealing, he can't do what he used to do. he's really trembling for eu funds, promising to pay for it, because he knows he's in trouble without eu money. he's not worried about the country, but about his own fortune and that of his accomplices. don't be fooled by the sound of compromise. he's probably just playing right now. he's gonna do anything to get money, but only so he can keep stealing. that is why we do not support the european union giving money to the hungarian government until it reaches orbán's circle, not the hungarian people. it must be made clear once and for all that the union will no longer finance the enrichment of the privileged few.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2020 and 2021 (2021/2186 (ini)) (a9-0224/2022).
the rapporteur. mr president, mr justice commissioner, didier reynders, the european parliament has more reasons than ever to take the state of fundamental rights in the european union seriously, not only because it is 13 years since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which enshrined article 2 as common values and an expression of the common constitutional traditions of the union, the violation of which leads to the activation of article 7 that we have just discussed, but also because we are coming from a series of critical episodes, including the overcoming of the pandemic, with an emergence of emergency measures imposed by the member states, which has triggered a period of reflection that results from this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2020-2021, which covers nothing less than the experience of the last two years and which i have the honour to present to you as the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i would like to express my gratitude, my appreciation and my respect to all those who have been involved in the preparation, debate, amendment and adoption of this report, including those who have, as a matter of right, presented a minority position. but in any case, this report clearly expresses the will and the majority feeling of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and it deals with the whole range of issues that it has to deal with. first of all, we should take stock of the progress made in a very difficult period with the entry into force of the european public prosecutor's office to combat corruption, which is a source of serious damage to the rule of law, as we have just seen in the debate on hungary. it also deals with the status of equality and non-discrimination of groups discriminated against on the grounds of their ethnic or cultural identity, sexual orientation or gender identity. we also call for an interinstitutional agreement to ensure that the values of article 2, which are also highlighted in this report, are binding. we are particularly concerned, of course, about the increase in racism, discrimination and incitement to hatred, and we therefore welcome the legislative initiative adopted by the commission to include hate crimes, which lead to hate crimes, among the so-called euro-crimes. and of course the report deals with the discrimination suffered by groups that have long been scapegoated: gypsyophobia affecting the roma community or anti-semitism. and there is a constant concern for people who suffer discrimination because of their sexual orientation, the lgbtq groups. of course, gender-based violence has a place in this report and we also welcome the commission's initiative to finally incorporate gender-based violence and the fight against gender-based violence into european criminal law. we point out that it is alarming that the european union has not signed the istanbul convention. it has the legal personality to do so and, if it is demanding this from those member states which are still dragging their feet, the european union itself would certainly do well to conclude the accession procedure, in which the last word would of course belong to this european parliament. i would like to conclude by making a reference to freedom of the press and the protection of journalists. we know that freedom of speech is under threat. information pluralism is also at risk, and that is why we have dealt with the slapp initiative, to reinforce the emphasis on information pluralism and media freedom and, of course, on the protection of the right to confidentiality of personal data, as has been shown in the debates on pegasus or predator. i'll conclude with three ideas that i'll summarize very quickly. first, nowhere is freedom and fundamental rights guaranteed forever. nor in europe. they are a fragile and perishable commodity, and we must look after them. secondly, the european union is still an oasis of rights and freedoms and of opportunities for prosperity and social cohesion. thirdly, it is therefore a very difficult balance to strike when we point out the serious violations - which we have pointed out - of fundamental rights and the rule of law in the european union in relation to those specific situations which merit attention and which indicate concern but not a systemic risk to the rule of law. we are obliged to preserve this balance, to develop the institutions and processes and to finance the public services which implement fundamental rights in the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking parliament for this report on the state of fundamental rights in the european union. this report is very comprehensive and covers many areas. in my opening remarks, i would like to focus on three points in particular: the fight against discrimination, the rule of law and the role of civil society. first the rise of racism, discrimination and hatred. racism is incompatible with eu values and fighting it is a priority for the commission. for this reason, we have launched infringement proceedings against 13 member states which have incorrectly or not fully transposed the council framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. as you know, this framework decision requires the criminalisation of public incitement to violence or hatred based on race, colour, religion, descent and nationality or ethnic origin. but a solid legal framework is only part of the solution. you can have very good laws, but if they are not applied effectively, they will not reach their goals. we are therefore also supporting the member states, focusing on measures such as better support to victims, training for law enforcement authorities, and improved reporting and data collection on hate crime. we are also continuing our work with the online platforms under the code of conduct to address hate speech online. i am pleased that an agreement was found on the digital services act. it is also a significant step to combat online speech. let me also mention the commission's proposal last year to include hate crime and hate speech in the list of eu crimes which is now before the council. if adopted, this new category of eu crime would allow the eu to criminalize hate speech and hate crime on wholly prohibited grounds of discrimination, such as sexual orientation, for example. in your report, you also underlined the situation of roma or lgbtiq people. the commission shares your concerns and we as well we are taking measures. on violence against women, for example we have incorporated the standards of the istanbul convention in our recent legislative proposal to criminalise, under eu law, a number of acts of violence, including forms of gender-based cyber violence. and of course, the adoption of the equal treatment directive remains a priority and the commission will do its utmost to support the negotiations on this file. secondly, a few words on the rule of law, which you also address in your report. the commission remains fully committed to safeguarding the rule of law. an important step in this regard was the publication of the 2022 rule of law report in july. in line with parliament's request, the report includes, as from this year, recommendations to all member states. this report is a very important tool for monitoring the state of the rule of law throughout the european union. it also serves as a basis for political debates at many levels across the european union, helping to keep the rule of law in the focus of public attention. i will present this year's edition of the report to the libe committee on 14 october, and i am always ready to engage in further discussions on the rule of law, including possible country-specific discussions, with you. let me also underline the adoption yesterday of the european media freedom act, which aims to promote and protect media freedom and pluralism. it responds to a number of shortcomings, including some underlined in the rule of law reports. we count on your support in the upcoming negotiations again on this file. the third and final point concerns civil society. as you very rightly point out in your report, civil society organisations are our best allies in ensuring the protection of fundamental rights and the rule of law on the ground. we have made them the main beneficiaries of the cerv programme, 'citizenship, equality, rights and values'. in the first two years of this new programme, we supported almost 600 projects for a total of around €260 million. projects promoting european values such as the rule of law and the fight against discrimination. and i want to thank your parliament again for its support for this vital programme. last april, the commission also adopted an initiative to protect civil society and journalists from the silent prosecutions you mentioned, the slapps. interinstitutional negotiations are under way on this matter and we look forward to your parliament's report. in addition, we are currently preparing a legislative proposal to strengthen the independence, resources and powers of equality bodies in the member states. the proposal is expected to be adopted in november. this year, the commission's annual report on the application of the charter of fundamental rights will focus on civil society and its key role in promoting and protecting the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter, and in helping victims to assert their rights. the report is due to be adopted in december. it will provide a roadmap for better support for civil society and i hope that it will give us the opportunity for a new exchange in the course of the next year. anyway, thank you for your attention. i am now looking forward to hearing your contributions to the report, which, as i said, was very comprehensive and which will help us to promote fundamental rights in the european union again.
thank you very much, commissioner. before we continue our debate i just would like to ask colleagues who would like to participate in the catch—the—eye procedure to be sure to apply for the procedure very carefully, otherwise i can give the floor only to those members whom i see on registration.
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for your constructive cooperation. i am glad that we have a report today which shows where europe must not relax but must add. for me, it's mainly the fact that roma children don't have the same chance of a full-fledged education. that several member states have given up on a reliable rule of law that is resilient to populist political change and serves the people. we're also witnessing, ladies and gentlemen, a major social change in the way news and information is spread online. and so far, unfortunately, we have not found good enough answers to protect european citizens from lies, half-truths and organized disinformation campaigns. compared to previous years, my member state, slovakia, also appears more often in the report. this is bad news for two reasons. the first is the cause itself. constant and repeated efforts to curtail women's rights, which have so far been approved only with a great deal of luck. the second bad news is the context in which the attacks on women's rights are taking place. in slovakia, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a broad social consensus and compromise on women's rights for many years. and it's a functional compromise, as evidenced by the long-term decline in abortions in the country. nevertheless, there are political forces in slovakia and elsewhere in europe that need social conflict and cannot exist without it. they create passions despite the fact that most of the population does not want the changes they propose. dangerous fundamental rights abusers make a living by fomenting conflict because they lack another political agenda. the report we are adopting this week comes at a time when europe is at war with a neighbouring country. and at a time when we're going through a really tough time. we have ample evidence that there is an aggressor, russia, who is only waiting for the knowledge or ignorance of active politicians who are happy to trade a strong and united society for their own electoral gain. ladies and gentlemen, let's not let them! we are fighting for the protection of fundamental rights, we are fighting for the truth, we are fighting for european cohesion in defending our values.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i am so honoured today to stand here as the socialists & democrats shadow rapporteur on this report, because this report that we are discussing today truly represents this european parliament. it represents the diversity of this parliament, its different faces, multiple views. and, above all, it is a symbol of what united, progressive and moderate forces together can achieve in the face of rising extremism and hate. what we are debating today is the fruit of weeks of compromises between our political groups that have been put together with the eu’s motto in mind. because in coming up with this report, we have been truly united in our diversity in the face of the far right in this chamber trying to make a mockery of fundamental rights in the european union. flipping through the pages of our report of our report, one will find our common words strengthened by the epp’s passion for standing up for persons with disabilities, combined with the left’s unwavering fight towards a society without racism and xenophobia. it pays homage to my political group’s fight for women’s equality coupled with renewed unfaltering dedication to lgbtiq rights and further strengthened by the greens’ booming call for a more just, social and a greener europe. colleagues, i have been brought up with the belief that hate creates hate and love creates love. i have been raised to believe that when they go low, you must go high. and in this case, colleagues, we have soared because we rose above the populism, the vitriol and hate towards minorities and in the face of such targeting, we have achieved a text which is all-encompassing and pays service to our constituents – the diverse citizens of our european union. so i wish to thank my colleagues and now friends for the collaboration we have had over the past weeks and months, alice, vladimír, michal and sira. while we may not have agreed on every little thing and every little detail of this report because of our own diversities, we came together to create resolve and put past our differences to look at the bigger picture: the european picture, one which unites us and our own diversity.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, mr commissioner, if there's one takeaway from this annual report, it is that our member states are violating core values of respect to the core fundamental rights and freedoms. and the european union cannot do much about it. the covid pandemic in 2020 and 2021 made it fairly obvious. the volume of human-rights violations described in this report proves that little is being done or can be done at this present time, beyond words and declarations. for far too long, we have turned a blind eye on fundamental-rights violations, unequal treatment, structural racism, or hate against minorities, lgbtiq people and others. in a number of member states, this discrimination has become systematic. my colleague spoke of the roma minorities in slovakia, but it goes beyond that, and now is the time for the eu to make clear where it actually stands. do we choose the path of fewer and fewer freedoms and give in to illiberal tendencies? or do we eventually choose a coordinated pushback to reclaim our values? and this is not about or just about hungary or poland, although our response in these cases shapes then what is deemed acceptable by other member states. and so far, as this report makes clear, europe's response has been feeble. but i am comforted also by the experience of drafting this report where the groups came together to paint a sobering picture, but at least making clear what europe values are and where we still have work to do. so thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur.
mr president, as usual, when speaking about the situation on fundamental rights in the eu, we avoid to name concrete member states – it’s the difference with a similar report on non-eu. i’ll try to fill in a bit the gap but not with the example of hungary. when we are concerned about the schooling of children from minority backgrounds, we have to mention three baltic states, especially my country, in latvia, erasing all minority languages from the schooling system and public sphere. when we speak about politically motivated arrests, we have to mention three baltic states again. in what concerns the fight against certain forms of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law in order to combat pre-existing afrophobia, anti-gypsyism, anti-semitism and islamophobia, we certainly have to add russophobia. the president of latvia has recently declared that the part of our citizens, mostly russians, must be isolated by reason of their opinions and beliefs. mr reynders, is that not a hate speech to be punished, as you promised?
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this exchange and i hope above all that we will have the opportunity to continue these discussions on a regular basis, because it is important that we can continue to analyse the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. all forms of discrimination must be combated and, as has been mentioned on several occasions, i would like to remind you that for people with disabilities we have adopted a strategy for 2021-2030 to ensure their economic and social inclusion. as you point out in your report, when it comes to fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law, the member states are at the forefront. the question of effective implementation of fundamental rights often arises at national or even local level. we want to continue and develop the financing of concrete projects at local level. i mentioned the cerv programme, for which i thank you again for your support. but this programme can be increasingly turned towards very concrete activities at local level. the commission will continue to cooperate closely with the member states on the basis of the annual rule of law report, the annual charter report and in the various fora we have set up, in particular to combat racism, hate crimes or discrimination. i would also like to emphasise the role of national parliaments: they are at the heart of democracy. the commission has been intensifying its exchanges with these key players for some time now and i invite your parliament to also strengthen its contacts with national parliamentarians, in particular on the basis of the instruments i have mentioned, such as the annual rule of law report. the debate at national level is essential to promote the culture of the rule of law and to develop this approach throughout the union. i would like to conclude by thanking you again for your work to promote a culture of fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law throughout the union.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner reynders, in concluding this debate i can only thank you for the intensity and, of course, the extent of this exchange of views which we have just witnessed. and all i can add is that there is, as i have heard, no contradiction between the universality of fundamental rights and the emphasis we have placed on the protection of equality and the prohibition of discrimination against certain categories of people. because this is a very real problem, unfortunately, in the european union, and it's growing. the european union, in its charter of fundamental rights of the european union, therefore protects europeans, but not only europeans: it protects all persons in the application of union law, which means that, in addition to protecting europeans who may be discriminated against on the grounds of their belonging to an ethnic or cultural minority, or because of their disability or sexual orientation, it also protects foreigners in the european union. i say this very deliberately because we are witnessing the growth of this extreme right-wing populist or exclusionary nationalist option which is, by definition, anti-european insofar as it seeks to discriminate negatively against entire categories of people, including foreigners or immigrants, and therefore, in the face of this emergence of extreme right-wing options, with a discourse that claims that immigrants are a threat to the security or identity of the european union, we need a courageous commission, commissioner reynders. a commission which, in the next pact on migration, asylum and refuge, is able to affirm that balance which we must strike, not only between solidarity and shared responsibility, but also with the respect which all people in the territory of the european union deserve in the application of union law, whether they are europeans or not, and therefore also foreigners and migrants.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. there are many reports and surveys on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu for 2020-2021. the evidence is discouraging to worrying, as there are many cases of violation of individual and social rights. we are witnessing daily the limitations on women's rights, discrimination in public life and freedom of expression. there is also a high incidence of violence and exclusion of people with disabilities. i consider these phenomena to be extremely serious for the smooth functioning of the european union. i would like to stress that equal treatment and non-discrimination are fundamental principles that are in line with the eu's values. respect for and promotion of the rule of law at all levels is a key objective, as it will be the key to tackling such phenomena. i am convinced that the member states, in the context of eu consultations, must take immediate and effective measures to deal with them.
in writing. the european union is today unique in the world in terms of the enforcement of human rights and the safety of its citizens on a daily basis. reports should reflect this reality instead of propaganda campaigns and extremist political ideologies. it is therefore regrettable that the report, without a proper examination of the facts, gives a distorted picture of the situation of fundamental rights in the countries of the union. unfortunately, debates on human rights have become debates on political ideologies, and the interpretation of human rights has in many cases become a tool for the dissemination of left-wing ideas in the european union. the hungarian child protection act, which has been subject to unjustified attacks due to ideological prejudices, is an example. the treaty on european union explicitly states that national identities must be protected. this also means protecting the constitutional structures and values of the member states. member states are entitled to ensure the constitutional protection of citizens in accordance with their identity and values. it is therefore unacceptable that, due to leftist ideological campaigns, hungary and poland have once again become the two stigmatized member states without a realistic picture of the actual situation. another regrettable trend is the disregard for the protection of national and linguistic minorities, and thus the safeguarding of the rights of many millions of european citizens, in the framework of the fundamental rights report.
before we get to the next point. there's an announcement. the ecr group informed the president of parliament of its decision on the change in the appointments of delegations. this decision shall be entered in the minutes of today's meeting and shall take effect on the date of its notification.
the next item is the thematic debate (rule 162) on the unlawful detention of the leader of the opposition in bulgaria (2022/2832 ((rsp)). there will be no show of hands and no blue cards accepted in this debate. mr. manfred weber will be the first to speak.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i want to ask you the first question. are we out of our minds? is this debate about boyko borisov or the rule of law? are we parliament or are we a junkyard that shows people it's too expensive to pay for? we have to respect the rights of everyone, and i don't care whether he is from alde, the greens/efa or the stan movement or the european commission. everyone should be guaranteed a democratic investigation under the rule of law. i can't decide that when i'm prime minister one day, we're going to detain someone from the opposition because i don't like them. i can't say that based on the information i found on the internet, i'm going to go to the da and decide that this guy spends 48 hours in jail. and that's what we need to discuss. it doesn't matter if it's peter or paul, but we're not in russia. it's not like the police or the da's office are subject to any assumptions. it has to work with evidence and facts. please, let's get back on the ground and please, let's have this discussion really without personal innuendo, rationally and tell the facts. i led the budget control committee's mission to bulgaria, and all of you who were there can tell that it was neutral. you've each had the opportunity to express yourself fully. at the press conference, as head of the delegation, only i could speak, but all of you from all groups spoke. and anyone who says today that i or someone else is deciding the elections in bulgaria is lying. i have been, colleagues, absolutely neutral, and i guarantee you i will always be neutral.
mr president, mr commissioner, the methods of authoritarian rule repeatedly condemned here in this chamber were ruthlessly used by the government of kirill petkov and his minister of the interior, boyko rashkov, who was, incidentally, part of the repressive apparatus of the former communist regime in bulgaria. with the entry into force of the court decision, the arrest of mr. borisov was declared illegal. the arrest warrant doesn't mention any incriminating facts. there is no evidence to justify the arrest of the former prime minister of bulgaria. a stop, some would say, but if we put a stop to it, will it stop the new political repression? only with a firm commitment of intolerance at all institutional levels and in society at large can we counter police brutality and tyranny. when we witness a brutal trampling of the rule of law, silence would be tantamount to complicity. so i want to ask my colleagues from the socialists, renew europe and the greens, would you be so silent if an opposition leader had been arrested under boyko borisov's rule? is this double standard not due to the fact that you were represented in petkov's office? the rule of law monitoring group, which was very active during the borisov government, is now surprisingly silent as well. the silence of the european commission is also astonishing. will it be indifferent to the illegal arrests of opposition leaders in a european union country or will it hide behind the excuse that it is not competent in this matter? do you condemn these illegal or repressive actions of the government of kirill petkov? and if so, please state it loud and clear so we know we can always count on you to defend our values.
mr. chairman, what i'm not going to do with this speech are two things. one is to spit on my country, and the other is to play the victim. what i want to do is to solve a european problem here in europe. the european problem is that a few self-forgotten people, accidentally in politics, decided to deal with the opposition by putting it in jail. but it made the opposition stronger, and the people in power more accountable. what happened is that we proved that the system in bulgaria works. the fact that these people are no longer in power, and the court has twice ruled that they are guilty, shows that bulgaria is a state of law and i am proud of that. these people are exceptional, and i'm sure the people will never again allow such people to rule us. what you should be worried about, colleagues, is that this arrest comes a day after a statement was made by former prime minister and opposition leader boyko borisov that he supports ukraine and condemns russia and its aggression. he took your position and paid the price for it. i want to talk about double standards now. try to close your eyes and imagine an epp prime minister in greece or croatia jailing the opposition from the greens or the socialists. there would be hunger strikes and calls for resignations. fellow leftists, today is silent. if it happens in your country tomorrow, it'll be too late to scream.
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, as i said in my introduction, the commission does not have the power to rule on individual cases which fall within the responsibility of national authorities, in particular judicial authorities, including those concerning the rights of the defence. this position, which i have presented in my speech to you today, represents the position of the european commission as a whole. this is the same line within the commission, whatever the individual cases involved. for example, it has been followed by the commission in the past in other cases involving a political figure, for example in slovakia, when the commission was called upon to deal with legal actions against the leader of the opposition. i want to reiterate that it is for the national judicial authorities to address individual allegations of irregularities or violations and where relevant the investigation and appropriate follow-up. and i repeat what i said in my introduction: as we can see from the functioning of the justice system in bulgaria, from the judgment of the administrative court, this court found that there had been a violation of the law and offered a remedy - the annulment of the detention order. and so we have followed the same reasoning with such a case, as with other cases in other member states, we left it to the national judicial authorities to analyse the situation and to take a decision. of course, i also want to reiterate that i am open to discussing with you the rule of law situation in all the member states. i have said that since the publication of the first rule of law report in 2020. i repeat that with the third edition with the recommendations for the 27 member states, and of course we will discuss, if you want, the situation in all 27, including bulgaria, and it will be the occasion to analyse the situation, dedicated to the independence, the quality and effectiveness of the justice system, and the different measures taken to fight against corruption. but the message is very clear, and we will follow the same position in the future about all the individual cases.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, this time i have to be very brief because of the reasons you understand, because of the mandate for the council is rather limited. but let me assure you once again that the presidency and the council as a whole attaches great importance to upholding the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. especially during these difficult times, the union as a whole needs to be very vigilant on the respect of the values set out in article 2 of the treaty on european union. the presidency will pay particular attention to the views expressed today during this debate. thank you very much for your attention.
the debate is over. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president, the authors call on the commission to consider creating an exception to the rules of the stability and growth pact for public expenditure on cohesion policy. but black is black, white is white, deficit is deficit, and debt is debt. by excluding cohesion policy expenditure from the deficit, we will not achieve a lower spirit at the end of the day. we are only increasing the risk of further worsening the already poor state of public finances. we are therefore increasing the risk that it will not be worthwhile for young people to work, do business and live in the eu. member states need clear and simple fiscal rules to comply with. no more exemptions to circumvent fiscal discipline.
madam president, commissioner, ever since the coronavirus pandemic and now the russian invasion of ukraine, we have been talking about the need to strengthen our strategic autonomy in industrial policy and the overall resilience of our economy. whether it's through recovery plans or other european funds. our strategic autonomy must be based on a competitive industrial base, strong investments in research and innovation and, above all, in key supply chains, especially for critical raw materials. but there is a certain disruption to the current supply chain model. the idea that europe could still make cheap things in china, import everything into its territory, and have only pure industry in its territory, simply failed. moreover, we cannot go from energy dependence on russia to raw material dependence on china. if we want to maintain our independence, energy security and self-sufficiency, we must use all the resources available in our territory. provided, of course, that the latest technologies and environmentally friendly practices are used. europe has fallen asleep in its own illusion of trade diplomacy. the global supply of automotive chips depends on taiwan. as far as the supply of precious metals is concerned, this market is dominated by china. the commission should continue to work on the list of strategic raw materials and continue to build various alliances with partners and all stakeholders in the field, namely the battery alliance and the other alliances mentioned, which are being built in the field of raw materials or also the use of solar energy and hydrogen. (the speaker agreed to respond to the speech after the blue card was raised. )
, blue-card reply. – thank you very much for the question. i think that there is no, i would say, clear, absolute answer to your question. i think that we are not here to judge and to blame someone. i think that also the european union has taken in the past some really politically motivated decisions which were not correct. i would maybe – and i don’t want to blame anyone, i repeat – but some decisions also taken, for example, in germany some years ago, when all the cards have been put to the gas imported from russia, was not a good solution. and also on the eu level, we can also testimony about the decisions which were not very correct, but maybe there was some a goodwill and kind of naivety.
in writing. i hope that with this extension of the mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control, the european union and its member states will finally be better prepared to deal with possible future health epidemics and pandemics. however, the condition must be that sufficient competences on the part of states are maintained in critical decision-making areas. the legislation adopted is mainly about improving the coordination of national practices, preventing cross-border spread of diseases and the ability to communicate the necessary data. i would welcome more coordination at eu level of the management of noncommunicable diseases such as cardiovascular, oncological and autoimmune diseases, which have huge differences in treatment success across countries.
in writing. the expansion of eu competences in healthcare was to start with an impact analysis as well as a root cause analysis of the problems in this sector. unfortunately, the commission is proposing further centralisation and increasing the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control and setting up new institutions without impact assessments. for the health union to work, we need a deeper and more professional debate on the division of competences between member states and the eu, and on the results of the new regulation. in my view, it would be a good step towards a european health union to make it significantly easier for citizens to access publicly funded treatment in other eu member states.
after the pandemic, after the war in ukraine, there's a huge energy crisis that rightly raises hopelessness and fear. but it is also the hopelessness and fear that tempts people in europe to believe the fascists. today, europe is facing not only economic collapse but also a real return to power of the fascists, the likes of which we have not seen since the second world war. a similar situation, a similar economic crisis, existed here before the war. and then, and now, people started to believe in fascist populism. they simply succumbed to temptation. today the fascists do not salute. they seem to be focused on ordinary people. it's a lie. they're still fascists. in these difficult times, i ask all democratic parties, right and left, not to be tempted to go into any kind of cooperation with people who just a few months ago were railing, questioning the holocaust, or denigrating other races. please stop legitimizing the fascists. during world war ii, many thought that they would be spared the death penalty by cooperating with the nazis. please stop being so naive as to think that this doesn't concern you.
author. madam president, we are looking for blazena. blessed blacksmith with her blind son. can you tell me where they live? at the house where the two children froze to death in the winter, you must turn left. "oh, i don't have fingers or toes". what happened to you? they froze me. you're 13 years old and you're about to become a mother. do you understand what happened? yes, the uncle told me i was pretty. you have three children, a sick wife. you're young and healthy, and yet you don't work. why? because i'm a gypsy from the village and i have to cook in the house. my wife and kids will freeze to death. who's gonna hire me when i have to put in the oven at least three times a day? what are you burning? anything i can find. from wood to tires. these are some short dialogues from the roma settlements that i had many years ago when i was a journalist. in november 2021, i returned to slovak roma settlements as an mep, as i led a delegation of the european parliament there. what we found in the settlements far exceeded all our expectations. we found thousands of people without electricity, without a public water supply, without sanitation. in trebišov, a town of 23,000 in eastern slovakia, there are 7,500 roma living in a segregated settlement, who in the rainy autumn, bathe in their own feces and the feces of their dogs. like in the slums. they have no sewer, no electricity, no gas. there is only one source of drinking water for the entire village of 7,500 people. there are thousands and thousands of tons of toxic waste dumps all around, contaminating entire territories. poor dogs eat the landfill by day, rats emerge at night, and then they eat the children in their sleep. the children have visible scars on their faces, they have itchiness and they are hungry. the people in the village were so apathetic that they turned into their own shadows as we walked by. the healthy regions project, co-funded by the european social fund, which has been replacing the state in the settlements during the pandemic, has alerted us to the growing phenomenon of fetal babies. they're feeding toluene so they don't feel hungry. at the same time, we were alerted to the extremely high infant mortality rate in the settlement. they have 30 deaths per 1,000 newborns, which is the level of developing countries. those children are dying of malnutrition, of respiratory diseases. when it's cold in the huts, the roma burn whatever they can get their hands on, including toxic waste from landfills. in slovakia, it has become state policy to place children from slums in special schools. their social deprivation and their lack of knowledge of the national language are often mistaken for mental retardation on school-leaving tests. and so the state, through its own segregation policy for years, has created a generation x of people with incomplete basic education, who are completely dependent on state aid and who are unable to succeed in the open labor market. the european commission is pursuing an infringement case against slovakia. so far, nothing has changed significantly. during the past slovak corrupt governments, which literally funneled european union funds, money for marginalized roma communities was distributed to all kinds of organizations that were close to the government octopus. for example, they gave money to ikebana retraining courses for the long-term unemployed or to municipal football clubs to teach digital skills to roma without basic education. a lot of european money has been spent on a lot of atrocities that have brought very little added value to marginalised roma communities. the current government has not removed the bureaucracy from the system of drawing up euro funds, and slovakia has one of the lowest drawdowns ever. of the original allocation for the marginalised roma community from the old budget, we still have 70% left over. there is a lack of political will at both government and local levels, and tensions between settlements and the majority population are growing. because just as it's hard for people in the settlements, it's hard for people living nearby. investing in roma settlements has become so unpopular in our region that we prefer to let money from european funds go to waste. in slovakia, 300 settlements have no access to public water supply networks, 650 settlements have no access to sewerage, and 50 segregated roma settlements have no infrastructure, not even an asphalt road. according to undp, less than half of all roma households in slovakia have public water supply, and a significant proportion of them have to take water from a stream or river. the eu's major water and wastewater directives and article 34 of the eu charter of fundamental rights are not respected. as a result, the incidence of various infectious diseases among children and adults is increased in the settlements. in the settlements, there is an increasing phenomenon of children having children between the ages of 12 and 15. there are cases of child prostitution. i have described the situation in slovakia, but the same thing is happening in the czech republic, hungary, romania and bulgaria. we're talking about hundreds of thousands of people whose living conditions are comparable to those of people in developing countries. this is a european disgrace, this is a european problem. we cannot build a 'social europe where no one can be left behind' if we leave children in the heart of europe to die of malnutrition and respiratory diseases in the 21st century. the last thing i want to say to you is that... the chairman withdrew the floor.
madam president, despite the fact that the european commission has its second strategy for the next decade, despite the fact that we are sending billions to the member states to improve the situation of roma, despite the fact that the member states also have their own strategies for roma inclusion, i have said several times in this parliament: it is not enough. please, everyone, stop hiding behind declarations, strategies or promises. because the lives of millions of roma in europe today are often worse than those of those living in the third world. please go and look at any ghetto or settlement in slovakia, hungary, romania or bulgaria and you will find that the situation is really shocking. despite billions, strategies and plans, children live in europe without water, without education, their parents often without work, without a future. how long, please, ladies and gentlemen, shall we accept this? how long are we to allow the political will to build a water supply, a sewerage system, a road, a nursery or a school to be lacking in many european countries? how long will we have strategies without real results? it's not enough to have empty words. we need levers on those who refuse to take responsibility in the member states and bring a life of dignity to the poorest settlements in europe. it is unacceptable that many local authorities use european resources for anything but roma settlements and ghettos. i ask all the european institutions, but also the member states, to please stop talking and start acting. keep in mind that roma children, like other children in the european union, have the right to fulfil their dreams. these roma children have the right to fulfill their dreams. and it is our duty, the duty of every one of us, whether at the level of the european union or at the level of the member states, to start acting and not just talking.
in writing. the proposed resolution on the situation of roma living in eu settlements is not really very compelling. the motion for a resolution shall be objective, factual and constructive. housing, education, the environment, employment must be a priority, not only for the eu, but above all for the governments of the nation states, and therefore also for the government of the slovak republic. but this requires funds and the right direction. the funds must be directed to the regions, local authorities, mayors of municipalities, i.e. where they have the best understanding of the roma settlement problem. the funding so far through various proxies, civil society associations has not met expectations. i agree that both the national government and the government of the federal republic of germany should be involved. and if you want to, you can. i agree with the need to remove the roma settlements. it has to be done in a civilised and legally acceptable manner. so if the government wanted to, they could solve the problem. for example: the current slovak government has managed to build a town with decent housing with hot water, sewerage, and internet for the us soldiers. a slovak roma is no less than an american soldier. if we were to place american troops in the roman settlements of jasov, jarovnice, kobeliarov and elsewhere, i am convinced that within a few days there would be water, sewage, internet and road. so if you want to, you can solve the problem.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, 100 000 euros for an obscene rhino hunt, 15 000 euros for a buffalo head, a few thousand euros for an elephant horn, a few euros for a rosewood board, and how much for the alleged aphrodisiac properties of pangolin scales? at this price - 195 billion euros a year, almost the equivalent of drug trafficking - the brutal exploitation of nature by man and, let us say, the crimes of humanity against the world of life are organized. that is why i believe it is now time to punish the buyers and the owners of these objects of trafficking, because it is demand that creates supply, and the market is in europe. i also think that this is a question of civilization, which is about how we see ourselves. the trade in so-called wild species is by its very nature barbaric and savage, and i believe that barbarism is not regulated, it is fought and punished.
madam president, i would like to focus my remarks this evening on paragraph 87 of the resolution we are debating today. i am referring to the inclusion, on the proposal of panama, of all sharks of the dingo or keel family in appendix ii of the cites convention, in order to make it more difficult to market them. this issue has been the subject of much controversy in my country, spain, and in my region, galicia, where the inclusion of the redfish in cites has already caused significant losses to a sector of the fleet. i would remind you that scientific advice does not recommend the inclusion of the dyer's beak in appendix ii of cites. recent assessments suggest that the stock of blue whiting is not overfished and that it remains above the maximum sustainable yield. in addition, the united nations food and agriculture organization itself has stated that this shark species is not threatened and that it does not need greater commercial control. it also warns that the inclusion of the dyeing plant in cites may have an unrecognised socioeconomic impact on a global scale. when we make decisions in the fisheries sector, we must be guided by science and socioeconomic impact, not just by an essentially environmentalist vision. the european fisheries sector has been in a bad way for three years. the impact of the cuts in waters and catches or quotas in british waters after brexit, the covid19 epidemic, the serious impact of the very high fuel prices, essential for fishing activity, and now the ban on bottom fishing in eighty-seven areas of the atlantic ocean. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the oil spills. i would like the european union to stop giving the impression that it is more concerned about the welfare of fish than the welfare and prosperity of fishermen.
madam president, commissioner, councillor, i am honoured to be part of the ep’s delegation to the cites cop19 because the convention is more than just a tool to control trade in endangered species, it is about our relationship with wildlife as such. wildlife is a significant part of our heritage, our cultures. our societies have to finally acknowledge the material and immaterial value that the habitats provide to us and the dependence of the wildlife on its good state. and the endangered species are the symbol of that deterioration. we have to admit that we, humans, are at the core of this problem. we keep contributing to the habitat degradation. we have led the market of illegal trafficking to flourish and we did not sufficiently punish those involved in it. we still keep trading captive-bred, endangered species, legally in a number of occasions. just look at the trade in captive tigers. also in the european union. we have to be part of the solution. we finally need to equip the police, the customs officers and the authorities with the means to enforce the convention because they have been seriously understaffed. we have to invest in capacity building and training of enforcement and judicial capacities. we need to strengthen our cooperation by establishing specialised units, focusing on wildlife crime across the member states. and we have to stop the trade in endangered animals from captive breeding. no more tiger trade. we all can help, also in this house, by sending a strong signal with our resolution on the cites scope, but also by supporting a strong environmental crime directive.
colleagues, do you want to withdraw the eu funds from hungary for not respecting the rule of law and european values? and i want to ask you, who decided what european values are? have you decided, or has this, mr šimečka, decided, or has the european commission decided, what european values are? you talk about it here, but you know it's pure hypocrisy. it is a mere pretext, as my colleagues in hungary have said, an ideological punishment for the hungarian government's refusal to submit to a liberal agenda. that's what this is about. you talk about democracy, but none of you, none of you have anything like the mandate of the current hungarian government, which was elected by 53% of the voters. did anyone get a higher percentage? he didn't. and that's what bothers you, that the hungarian government is democratically elected and enforces its own values. when you talk about democracy, i would really like you to start respecting it. and to my colleagues from hungary, on behalf of conservative-minded slovaks, i wish a lot of support and a lot of strong nerves. (speaker agrees to respond to speech after blue card is raised)
blue-card speech. – you just asked, dear colleague, whoever decided on these european values. well, my question to you is: do you know which country was the first country to ratify the lisbon treaty? it was hungary. and i think all the values were laid down in the treaties. so don’t you think that hungary was one of those who decided on the values?
reaction to the exit after the blue card has been raised. madam president, precisely because hungary was one of the first countries to adopt european values, it has the right to decide which values are best for its own citizens. and you don't want to say that brussels knows better than the hungarians themselves who live in hungary, or the poles who live in poland. you can't be serious.
madam president, commissioner, minister, this debate seems to me a bit like a clown's show in a cabaret. one of the clowns just puts on his uniform and asks the rest of us: what are european values? does it really seem normal to you that you don't know what european values are? do you know what we share here? does it really make sense to you to come here in front of other meps and ask such basic questions? saying someone is dictating something from brussels? mr president, we are in strasbourg, not brussels. none of us are from brussels. i'm from the czech republic and i certainly wouldn't advise the hungarians how to decide on a lot of things that are not in their competence. but isn't the fight against corruption a core value of the eu? if it's not, then you have no business being here, so you can leave this room, because that's the ground rule. hungary has made a huge shift after the enormous pressure we've developed here. but it needs to be heard from us to go forward. and i don't like the debate that we're really pushing one member state to change legislation, but we just have to show if we want to teach other countries that we can sort ourselves out within the european community.
madam president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, this house made it quite clear last month hungary is no longer a full—fledged democracy. the council and the commission should now acknowledge this quite obvious reality, especially when discussing the protection of billions of eu taxpayers’ money. i have no doubt that the commission triggered the conditionality mechanism involving up to a third of funds allocated to hungary. when it did so, it found evidence of a systemic problem, which is exactly why it is hard to believe that suddenly, in a matter of months, the orbán government would come up with a credible pledge to investigate all the stolen funds, that it would suddenly undo years of building up and sustaining a kleptocratic regime. because corruption and misuse of eu funds is, unfortunately, an integral part of governing now in hungary; it is a feature, not a bug. therefore, if the commission is serious about protecting our taxpayers’ money, the requirements must be considerably more robust. namely, hungary must and should join the european public prosecutor. and, crucially, the conditionality procedure should continue until we see tangible change, tangible results in hungary itself. in other words, until the country returns to the path of rule of law and democracy.
madam president, many of us europeans cannot imagine what life would be like without water. but we all have experience of the complications of having our water turned off in our homes, our apartments, even for a day. sadly, the world situation is dire. billions of people, especially in the third world, don't have the self-evidence that we have, they simply don't have access to clean water. if we don't change the impact of global warming, the climate change that we're already seeing, some parts of the world will literally dry up. at the gates of europe, there will be millions of migrants who will not beg for a better life in the union, but for a glass of drinking water. but there is also a problem of access to drinking water in the european union itself, where millions of roma living in impoverished roma settlements drink from the stream. we cannot be leaders in digitalisation and artificial intelligence on the one hand, and turn a blind eye to the millions of europeans and the billions of people in the world who cannot access a glass of clean and safe water all day long.
madam president, i am the chairman of the slovak patriot political party. slovakia has already been mentioned by mr weber. in order to have objective information on the situation in eastern ukraine as an mep, members of our party participated or were present at the time of the referendums held there. if i were to report objectively on the situation in eastern ukraine, most of you would probably stone me and mrs von der leyen would have to blush. that's why i'm not using my speaking time, for which i deeply apologize. as far as the motion for a resolution is concerned, i will vote on the motion objectively and truthfully. that means different from most meps.
mr. president, vladimir putin is losing his aggressive and brutal war. and the invaded ukraine, together with europe, which supports it militarily and financially, is the winner. and so we must not be misled or intimidated by putin's threats to use nuclear weapons or by a mobilization in which more russians have fled than have entered. nor by the illegal annexation of territories over which russia is gradually losing control. because that's the only tactic putin has. the only weapon is to spread fear, blackmail everyone, massacre civilians, burn territory, manipulate energy prices and threaten critical infrastructure in the european union. he's actually weak. if ukraine and europe are to win this war, we must continue to maintain the united position of the european union. we must enforce sanctions against the putin regime and continue to supply heavy military equipment to ukraine for victory. because this victory will also be a victory for a free and democratic europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this war by russia against ukraine, which is against international law, must be ended as soon as possible. the latest actions of the russian regime, such as the illegal referenda, the re-annexation and the threat to use nuclear weapons, must be firmly rejected. a nuclear war will lead to the complete annihilation of all sides. it must be prevented by all means. so diplomacy must finally be brought to its rightful place, which is the view of 77 per cent of germans. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. unfortunately, the commission has been completely inactive in this respect. the unilateral approach of putting the belligerents first on the weapons and looking for the decision on the battlefield is a very dangerous and risky path. we need a dual strategy. we must support ukraine economically, politically and militarily, but we must also make diplomatic efforts. and there's just not enough going on. we should also support the russian resistance to the war. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process.
mr president, in the face of this new escalation, i would like to stress here today the importance of the european union effectively communicating its position. we must maintain the majority of the 141 countries which condemned russian aggression in the united nations general assembly in march and ensure that this condemnation is also translated into action. the fact is that very few third countries are still applying our sanctions and i am also concerned about the change in the direction of the votes of brazil and gabon in the recent vote in the security council (both abstained). lavrov developed a broad diplomatic agenda also in africa in these months. the african union president recently called in moscow for the lifting of european sanctions. a few days ago we saw putin in samarkand with the top leaders of india and china. putin is not yet fully isolated. we must intensify our diplomatic offensive, involving more of the president of the european council, for example. ladies and gentlemen, this is no time for ambiguity or equidistance. this is a conflict between russia and the international community. it's not just a war between europeans. their reach is much greater. and the rest of the world, commissioner, mr vice-president, should be aware and act accordingly.
mr. president, the unprecedented attack, the aggression, the war crimes, the nuclear threat, the mobilization, the referendums, the annexation. a word about what escalation means in practice. russia is gradually crossing the line, destroying ukraine, threatening european security and trampling on the international order. the european response, ladies and gentlemen, must be unequivocal. we must be united, determined, join forces with allies around the world, support ukraine even more, and show that we will not be blackmailed by moscow. russia has embarked on a path from which there is no return. it has left the society of the developed world and joined the ranks of the outcasts of global politics. every investment in the victory of ukraine is an investment in our european freedom and security. it is an investment in european democracy, in a better future where ukraine will succeed. as a candidate country, it will become part of our political space. we stand with ukraine. he's fighting for his territory, his values, his people. the ukrainians know best how to win this war. let's listen to them and give them what they need. the glory of ukraine.
dear colleagues, just to apologise, but blue cards will not be issued as we are running out of time and we need to start voting soon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by condemning russia's forcible annexation of the territory of a sovereign state, we have confirmed our joint determination to support ukraine's freedom and territorial integrity, but we have also received the political and economic confirmation that one country should stand behind it. the occupation and attempted violent takeover and illegal appropriation of another's territory are the most flagrant examples of the violation of the legal system on which the european and world order is based, and the consequences are felt by all of us - through the speculative prices of energy and the intentions of those who want to exploit war for other interests. we will not leave ukraine regardless of the threats and intimidation coming from the kremlin because, especially we from croatia, who were exposed to aggression and suffered great sacrifices not so long ago, we know how to appreciate the freedom for which we fought to enjoy the values on which the european union is based. there is a clear distinction between those of us who speak the language of peace and those who speak the language of war. we must stick to our policies and our values, but be aware of russia's strategy in geopolitical terms and its imperialist ambitions. in defense of democratic values, we should support the measure.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to ask you a question about what the president of the european commission said. sure, the conflict in ukraine is exacerbating the energy crisis. you have said here, madam president, that we need to cap gas prices, and i think everyone agrees. but i would like to ask you what the president meant by 'a homogeneous level' in the eu market? what does a homogeneous level mean ? there are countries where per capita consumption is four times lower than the eu average, as is the consumption in my country. can the lowest consumer still afford a discount? i think we must be careful here and the commission must propose a mechanism which does not put at a disadvantage the european citizens who are currently consuming the least, and those citizens are those in my country.
mr president, the war being waged by russia in ukraine has entered a new phase and this imposes new obligations on us. the ukrainians are proving brave and effective, and we must increase european military aid. they are overly dependent on american military aid and this may affect their choices in the future. we're winning the battle of ideas and information against putin, who for the first time has internal problems. but we need to scale up the effort and not allow various kinds of populists to limit its effectiveness. finally, there are unfortunately still big european interests making a lot of money by financing putin's war of aggression. we need to impose additional restrictions. the sacrifices of the many cannot be combined with the profiteering of the few.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, mr president of the council of the european union, dear minister bek, today’s debate focuses on the most important challenges of today’s europe. you all mentioned war on our continent, and rightly pointed out the serious concerns of the people in europe over high inflation, high energy prices, overall social cohesion, and over the future of our businesses and industry. i really would like to thank all the honourable members for what i felt was truly overwhelming support and solidarity with the ukrainian people. i think that we can also state that every day, we see that our support is crucial, that it works and that it brings tangible results. no sham referendums are going to change that. i agree with mr auštrevičius and with mr millán mon that the decisions we are taking today will frame the european and, i would say, global security for many decades. almost all of you honourable members highlighted how important the unity and solidarity are to deal with current energy prices and high inflation. as ms vautmans has said, this is a time for truly european solutions because only that approach will bring the results we need. you know that, together with your support, we already did a lot. we reduced gas consumption, we decreased the gas supplies coming from russia in a significant manner and we filled up our gas storages. but we all know that more is needed and therefore, we are going to skim off the exceptional profits of the energy companies to support vulnerable citizens and businesses. thanks to the excellent work of the czech presidency, we already found an agreement on repowereu to provide additional resources in those efforts. it is clear that the next days will be of crucial importance for pushing our actions to the next level. president von der leyen will send a roadmap in a letter to prepare the ground for the meeting of eu leaders in prague. we will complement it with our negotiations with trusted partners, such as, for example, norway, to dampen the price we pay for energy. and we are going to use much more our strong market power as a big economy and very important energy importer. i am sure that our suppliers, especially our friends and allies, want not only to conclude the deals which are beneficial for both sides, but they also want to support us in our principled positions to help ukraine and further increase pressure on the russian aggressors. we want to make sure that we will take advantage of our big internal market and we will strengthen our energy platform to avoid a situation where member states are competing with each other, but rather we would work with them to support a common approach. to take on the inflationary impact of gas on electricity, today, the president of the commission was very clear in sending clear signals on our readiness to discuss a cap on price for gas for generating electricity. we see it as another step not only to develop the new post-ttf price benchmark, but also to structurally reform our electricity market as called for by mr jadot or ms van brempt, and to do it in a way that will not only decouple gas from its unproportional impact on electricity price, but to forge a new framework which will correspond to our goals to be a climate—neutral continent by 2050. on top of this, we are working on the adaptation of a temporary state aid framework to the current energy situation. i want to assure you that we hear very loud and clear your calls to look for additional ways on how to tackle high inflation, reduce energy prices and preserve our competitiveness and, most importantly, for our citizens to uphold social standards in europe. there have been concrete questions by mr mureşan on moldova. just to be very brief, on top of our budgetary support and our macro financial assistance in more than eur 225 million together, we are also helping through the eib and we are helping by sending out frontex officers to deal with the migratory flows. i also want to acknowledge the very clear questions and points by ms fritzon and ms kumpula-natri concerning the visas for russians. here, i think the very concrete guidelines proposed by my colleague ylva johansson are the best way forward. to mr bart groothuis, i want to reassure him that we are ready to explore all possibilities, to look for additional avenues on how to better protect our critical infrastructure. i will be looking forward to our cooperation in that regard. so to conclude, honourable members, i would really like to thank you for today’s debate, for bringing also new ideas to the table, and to really make sure that, as we always do, we will prevail through this crisis and we will emerge stronger from this very challenging experience.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner. by the way, i appreciate the opportunity to speak to a full house for a change. the views expressed here today bear witness to this parliament’s overwhelming and continued support for the eu’s course of action towards russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. listening to you, i reiterate the words expressed by the high representative. our efforts must continue. our strategy to counter russia’s offensive has worked until now and must be sustained: support ukraine in all terms, pressure russia and engage with the rest of the world. we will continue to provide military assistance to the ukrainian government to ensure that recent military gains are sustainable in the long run. we also need to continue supporting ukraine financially in a predictable way. in working with our international partners, we will make sure that russia is held accountable for the crimes it has committed and we will develop stronger tools to counter russia’s parallel war of disinformation. high representative borrell spoke at the beginning about the eighth sanctions package, and here i am pleased to inform you that the eu ambassadors, coreper, confirmed agreement on this package a couple of minutes ago. we see this package as a further step to isolate the russian regime and weaken its capacity to pursue this war of aggression. the new sanctions package also represents a strong condemnation of the recent sham referenda and of russia’s illegal annexation of ukrainian territories. president, vice-president of the commission, honourable members, as you know, the motto of our presidency is ‘europe as a task’, inspired by an essay by czech president václav havel. it is symbolically today, the day of václav havel’s birthday, that we are discussing one of the most important tasks that lie ahead of us. many thanks for your attention.
i have received five motions for resolutions to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote on the resolution will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. in accordance with the un charter and international law, all states have an equal right to sovereignty and territorial integrity. in international relations, states are obliged to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of another state. any annexation of the territory of one state by another state by threat or use of force is in clear violation of the charter of the united nations and of international law. however, in recent months russia has continued its illegal, unprovoked and unjustified aggressive war against ukraine and its people. as if that were not enough, russia is committing widespread and grave human rights violations, war crimes and crimes against humanity. it is therefore of the utmost importance for the eu to reiterate its support for ukraine, its sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity within internationally recognised borders and to insist that the perpetrators of the abovementioned crimes be brought to justice. at the same time, it is important to condemn russian aggression in the strongest possible terms. russia bears full responsibility for the war and therefore the eu calls on the aggressor to immediately stop the offensive and withdraw all its and allied forces from all internationally recognised ukrainian territories, including crimea. last but not least, it is also necessary to acknowledge the enormous courage of the ukrainian people, who are making enormous sacrifices in defence not only of their country but also of european values. glory to ukraine!
in writing. in a matter of weeks, russia has escalated its war of aggression in ukraine to a new and more dangerous level. the ban on trade, the sham referendums, the illegal annexations, the gas pipeline bombings and the threat of nuclear weapons are all reprehensible acts to which the eu must respond with new tough sanctions and increased military aid to ukraine. the new sanctions are a good step, but they are not enough. the next step should be to extend the personal sanctions to the russian central leadership and their families. the eu's major member states should now also make new decisions on arms aid to ukraine quickly. here the united states provides a fine example. thanks to its military assistance, ukraine has made significant gains in recent days.
i would inform you that dace melbārde is no longer sitting with the non-attached members. she joins the ppe group as of today, 5 october 2022.
we shall now proceed to the vote. we have a longer vote and i ask you to support me in this by giving me clear signals. then we can do this as quickly and as expeditiously as possible. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection to this minutes? that is not the case, and therefore the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on combating anti-european and anti-ukrainian propaganda launched by putin's european friends (2022/2862 ((rsp)). i would like to point out to all members that there will be no spontaneous wording in this debate and that no blue cards will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, the issue of a healthy information ecosystem in europe, free from intentional and concerted attempts to distort it, is always an important topic. given the current international events surrounding our daily lives, today’s debate is even more relevant, and i would like to thank you for inviting the council to take part. in short, any false narratives and foreign information manipulation and interference in our democracies and our democratic discourses cannot and should not be tolerated. our societies deserve to be free from any hostile influence and be able to make their own properly informed decisions, whether it is on health matters, political parties they choose to vote for, or on global events that directly or indirectly impact their lives. since the beginning of the russian war of aggression against ukraine, we see that there are active attempts to manipulate the hearts and minds of european citizens. sometimes these attempts are broader in scale. sometimes they are more focused on certain european countries and vulnerable minorities within them. but they are undoubtedly present, and they are only getting more and more daring and audacious. russian disinformation outlets aim at polarising our societies. they do that by combining pro-kremlin narratives with content on the divisive subjects that fringe movements in europe focus on: migration, anti-vaccine sentiment and climate change scepticism, for instance. such narratives are designed to misinform, mislead and, most importantly, to be divisive. this is why the council has clearly stated from the outset of the war that such hostile, opportunistic and dangerous activities will not be tolerated, that our people must be protected from attempts to distort reality. as a result, we introduced restrictive measures against russia-associated outlets conducting disinformation and information manipulation actions. and yet, despite our early actions, we must prepare for the long and difficult road ahead of us. there is no silver bullet from complex attempts to interfere in our democracies and we must work on multiple fronts to continue to defend our values and principles. the council closely follows new initiatives by the commission in this area and is actively involved in the implementation of existing ones, such as the strengthened code of practice against disinformation. we look forward to even more ambitious actions based on the ‘whole of society’ approach, as we have to be all together in this fight against propaganda and information manipulation. i want to repeat again that any interference in our political and democratic processes is unacceptable, particularly in the current geopolitical climate and also in the run-up to the 2024 european parliament elections. therefore, the council and the czech presidency are fully committed to the development of the eu hybrid toolbox, as well as in establishing the toolbox to counter foreign information and manipulation that will make our european response stronger and more coordinated. that will make us more resilient and the hostile powers less successful in their actions. at the same time, the czech presidency is actively engaged in the implementation of the european democracy action plan, which aims at building a more resilient public sphere in our societies. i would like to underline in particular, the negotiations we launched last week with the european parliament on the regulation on the statute and financing of political parties and foundations. we hope to conclude these negotiations successfully by the end of the year and thus adopt eu legislation that will increase the transparency of political parties while reinforcing our capacity to counter foreign interference. i count on your support and engagement towards this objective. thank you very much once again for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, minister, there can be a no more timely and more important debate than the one we’re having today. and i would like to congratulate president séjourné of the renew group for making sure this debate happens. i think the vast majority of all of us feel very strongly that we need to say loudly no to war propaganda and disinformation, to say no to bullies blackmailing households, to those who use energy as a gunshot. dear friends, honourable members, disinformation and war propaganda was used to pave the way for russia’s illegal invasion of ukraine and continues to fuel russia’s military aggression. various disinformation actors are looking now for a transition from the gains of the pandemic to the lies and myths around the war in ukraine. the spectacles of the so-called referenda, accompanied by a large volume of disinformation, is a method straight from the kremlin’s playbook, used to illegally annex the territories of its neighbours. this is exactly the same pattern we have seen in crimea back in 2014. we have also seen the same pattern consecutively within the european union, where we find numerous indications on opportunists and wannabes in several of our member states, national politicians, members of parliaments, and clearly journalists and media are columnists. we have seen it all. russian diplomats expelled from athens some years ago, in sofia a few months ago. media tycoons clearly trying to impose gonzo networks and muppet journalism in our capitals. we read reports about kyiv allegedly falling in the first three days of the war. we saw tv reports of dead bodies in the bucha massacre allegedly moving. and we saw lies published on bombing innocent pregnant women in a maternity hospital, which apparently did not exist. there are no riddles or enigmas on all of this. russian propaganda penetrates our societies through chancers and oligarch rubles on our screens, on our newspapers, and in our public space. let’s put it in a rather simple way: russian disinformation and propaganda is targeting both european and international audiences in order to undermine the democratic west’s support to ukraine and vilify our ukrainian partners. and this is crucial within our union and our closest friends and allies as, for instance, in the western balkans, where i am visiting these days. this is our moment now as europeans to refute this propaganda, to defend and stand for the truth and strike back. as seen by our recent reports on eu disinfolab and from facebook, by impersonating european media outlets using proxies online and using other manipulative behaviour, russia is targeting now europeans directly with apocalyptic messages about impending the winter without heating and accusing eu sanctions of growing inflation and energy bills. fighting online disinformation and foreign information manipulation and interference is now a key priority not only for the commission but, i think, for our institutions as a whole. we now have the code of practice of disinformation, which we strengthened this year, and this is the centrepiece of our efforts. since the beginning of the war, the commission has been monitoring through regular meetings the platform’s actions to address directly russian propaganda. the tech companies, signatories of the code of practice, are implementing our sanctions and are taking important steps together with us to curb the spread of propaganda and harmful disinformation, including the closing of many accounts, demotion of this information, or stepping up cooperation with fact-checkers. the european digital media observatory and its national hubs have also been instrumental in this fight. by focusing our activities on ukraine over the last few months, the collaboration of eu fact-checkers and academic researchers has decreased the capacity of our attackers and has increased our ability of detecting, analysing and exposing disinformation and war-related campaigns. the observatory’s specific task force on the war has identified more than 1 600 disinformation instances related to the war through fact checks and issued reports and investigations on both emerging and trending narratives. we will continue to build on this valuable expertise, expanding the coverage of the observatory activities to 100% of the eu population, as well as in the context of the code’s monitoring and exchange with technology platforms. honourable members, we have imposed as a union the biggest and deepest sanctions packages in our history, including against notorious figures directly involved in disinformation. we have even sanctioned for the first time ever the broadcasting of russian media such as russia today and sputnik, as they were clearly propaganda machines. we have curbed the activity of the kremlin’s weapons of mass deception, not only with full respect with fundamental rights and freedoms, but in order precisely to protect these fundamental rights and freedoms. we are also very actively raising awareness about pro-kremlin disinformation via our euvsdisinfo website and with the help of our delegations around the world. we cooperate closely with the stratcom centre, the ministry of foreign affairs of ukraine, supporting civil society and media in this country. and when the war is over, believe me, there will be many pilgrimages in kyiv to see precisely how successful this collaboration has been. and building on the action plan against disinformation and the european democracy action plan, as confirmed lately by the strategic compass, we have put in place very tangible, specific measures to address foreign information and manipulation. we have even a dedicated toolbox, the fimi toolbox, to deal with this challenge. and we have just announced a defence of democracy package to further broaden our appeal, our capacity to resist against foreign interference. finally, in this, as the minister just said, we need to complete the picture of fighting disinformation and foreign hostile interference with the approval of our proposals on political advertising and on the funding of european political parties and foundations. we need to work in earnest and swiftly to have agreements on this emblematic and meaningful piece of legislation. and the final point. we have indeed seen reports on the united states’ findings concerning the 300 million illegal financing by russia within the european union. let me assure you that we are looking forward to receive this information and we will get to the bottom of it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, mr vice—president, minister, colleagues, russia deliberately sparks the worst in us and amplifies it for political gain. it weaponises our differences, undermines free discourse and seeks to destroy our democracy. while we still do have physical borders, with the rise of social platforms and hostile domestic actors readily willing to spread foreign state propaganda from both extreme left and extreme right, european information space is more exposed than ever. fabricated lies and political propaganda that we tolerated for years, and that have eaten away at our democratic institutions such as quality public media, are no longer acceptable. we must take concrete measures to fight back. i am proud that this house has created a body with precisely this in mind – our special ing2 committee, which diligently listens to world—renowned experts and formulates concrete proposals for action against disinformation. we know exactly what to do. we stand against an enemy who uses manipulation as a strategic tool. we need to defend our institutions, our own pillars of security, our allies. we must cooperate better and faster than any time before. we need more resources. we cannot be dependent only on a few dozen experts – not against the enemy who uses the whole state apparatus to attack us and our values. we must support strong independent media, and demand from social platforms not to amplify lies. we need to support our reliable allies through eu enlargement and strong cooperation with like—minded partners. we must not only free ukrainian land from putin. we must also free people’s minds and protect our citizens.
mr president, the schengen area is undoubtedly one of the core pillars and privileges of the european union. i fully recognise the need to be extremely careful while judging the preparedness of the countries to fulfil the criteria, especially when it comes to the necessity to protect external borders. here we have to say that romania and bulgaria have since 11 years met all the technical conditions and passed all the stress tests, even the massive arrival of the ukrainian refugees. but they have still not been granted membership of the schengen area. on the contrary, they have been held hostage to the political games of some member states. already last year, when voting on the annual report on the functioning of the schengen area, i supported the accession of both countries to schengen and once again i appeal to the council to grant the entry to romania and bulgaria immediately. the romanians and bulgarians deserve the privilege to use all the benefits that eu membership provides us with, including the genuine free movement of people without border controls.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, the european union maintains its efforts to ensure the gross violence of human rights in myanmar remain high on the agenda of the international community. shrinking media freedom is, amongst others, an issue of serious concern given the systematic and sustained crackdown on journalists since the coup. nyein nyein aye and htet htet khine were the 24th and 25th journalists to receive a prison sentence. this sentencings have the potential to deter other journalists and bloggers and this is another step towards restricting media freedom and freedom of expression in myanmar. to date, 67 journalists have been imprisoned in myanmar, according to the reporters sans frontières press freedom index. other sources, such as detained journalists information myanmar mention 142 journalists. this said, the regime has also targeted civil society organisations and human rights activities. many have had to flee or have seen their bank accounts frozen and office offices raided. overall, the situation on human rights in myanmar is in freefall since the coup. however, the recent executions of the four civil society activists in august and the further verdicts against former state counsellor aung san suu kyi, as well as three former ministers, are further signs of the escalation of violence and the deterioration of the situation in myanmar since the coup. the european union has stepped up its diplomatic engagement with key regional countries and organisations – for example asean and the united nations – and continued supporting asean’s five points consensus. however, we are concerned about the lack of progress in working towards a solution to the crisis in myanmar. at the multilateral level, in coordination with like—minded partners, we regularly present resolutions at the un human rights council and the un g8 committee. following the recent executions, which constitute another escalation of violence in myanmar, we stepped up monitoring the situation together with the european union and the member states, and are maintaining our sanctions regime under constant review. we will continue to support myanmar human rights activities, journalists and civil society, as we do worldwide. as a fundamental principle of the european union, we hear from those activists and opponents that consider our support important – be it public statements, financial support or meeting with them. it all matters. we will keep monitoring developments in myanmar, calling the authorities to account when they do not respect fundamental rights.
the debate is closed and the vote will take place tomorrow.
the epp group has notified the president of a decision relating to changes to appointments within a committee. this decision will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the recent humanitarian and human rights situation in the ethiopian tigray, in particular the situation of children (2022/2858 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you for bringing the situation in ethiopia back to the agenda. the situation in tigray is one of the worst man-made humanitarian crises in the world. according the world food programme 13 million people across the tigray, afar and amhara regions are in need of food assistance as a direct result of the conflict. at the same time, ethiopia is experiencing the most severe drought recorded since 1981, leaving an estimated 7.4 million people facing grave food insecurity. the european union has so far allocated around eur 66 million in humanitarian aid to ethiopia in 2022. the resumption of fighting severely hampers even more humanitarian aid delivery in northern ethiopia. the supply of humanitarian commodities and fuel, as well as cash availability and public services, are still totally blocked for tigray and greatly impeded in all affected areas in amhara and afar. humanitarian organisations had to suspend their operations and withdraw some staff from conflict-affected areas. this is a serious blow to humanitarian operations and to millions of highly vulnerable people in tigray, afar and amhara that depend on humanitarian aid for their survival. there is only one solution to improve this situation, and this solution is political, not military. this is why the european union calls on all warring parties to stop fighting and engage in negotiations. we cannot impose from the outside and we will continue engaging with like-minded partners to support an african solution to this african crisis so as to prevent further human suffering and further regionalisation of the conflict. the european union recalls that granting unhindered access to humanitarian organisations so that they can reach all people in need, in line with the principles of impartiality, neutrality and independence is an obligation under international humanitarian law. it is not an option. it is an obligation. so it is the duty of all parties to the conflict to ensure the safety and security of civilians, humanitarian workers and humanitarian assets, notably by strict application of the principles of precaution and distinction in the conduct of hostilities. the european union is also appalled by the gravity and scale of human rights violations and abuses perpetrated by all parties to the conflict since its beginning. those allegations must be investigated and accountability ensured. there will be no durable peace, no reconciliation without justice for the victims. the european union will present a resolution at the human rights council renewing the mandate of the international commission of human rights experts on ethiopia to allow for further comprehensive, independent and transparent investigations and an accountability mechanism to complement national efforts. the european union does not forget the people of tigray and those suffering from this man-made crisis. two years have passed since the start of the conflict. there is no more time to lose.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. parallel to the dramatic war that has been going on for seven months now in ukraine, another dramatic war is being waged in ethiopia these days, in the silence of the international press, whose first victims are, as always, the most vulnerable, the children! a forgotten war that since it broke out in november 2020, has left 2.2 million people in the lurch and almost a million dead, turning the horn of africa region into a theater of atrocious crimes. the massacres, the rapes, the bombings, together with the drought and the blockade imposed by the addis ababa government on international humanitarian aid, food and medicine, which cannot reach the already exhausted population, are causing a terrible famine! according to the un, in ethiopia's tigray region, one in three children under five is malnourished, which means that they are 12 times more likely to die than well-fed children! the european union, with the eu strategy on the rights of the child, has clearly reaffirmed its commitment to protecting the human rights of children, all over the world, not just within its own borders! it is therefore necessary and urgent to increase diplomatic and humanitarian efforts to guarantee the primary right to life of the children of tigray!
in writing. it's been almost two years since the ethiopian federal government launched a war in tigray. this is just a year after prime minister abiy was awarded the nobel peace prize. since then, the war has plunged the region into a deep humanitarian crisis. the world food programme estimates that more than 13 million people in northern ethiopia are in need of humanitarian assistance. the commission's efforts have resulted in limited aid being delivered, but five million people remain at risk of starvation. statements on the withdrawal of eritrean troops actively involved in the conflict were also not heard. it is a brutal war, marked from the beginning by mass killings, attacks on religious sites, violence against women and children, and the destruction of cultural heritage. the fighting and famine have so far claimed the lives of about half a million people, including 700 civilians who were massacred in the first month of clashes, november 2020, at the church of st. mary of zion in aksum. we recognise that the eu's efforts so far have not been successful. local church officials report that the situation of the civilian population in tigray is dramatic and is now the worst since the conflict began. what can we do? the union alone will not be able to bring the conflicting parties to the negotiating table, and closer and more coordinated cooperation is needed, not only with international organisations but also with regional partners such as the african union and the states of the region.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the dutch childcare allowance scandal, institutional racism and algorithms (o-000028/2022 - b9-0025/22).
for the ppe group. mr president, in a time of pandemic that has hit the most vulnerable groups, such as children from socially disadvantaged families, the dutch tax authorities have wrongly accused parents with a so-called risk profile of illegally collecting child allowances. it was not a small number of people, but 20,000 unjustly accused parents who, because of the reckless and irresponsible approach of the state, were brought to the brink of bankruptcy. my friends, it was institutional racism. yes, my colleagues. the scandal in the netherlands is a violation of the rule of law and institutional racism. but what strikes me personally is that institutional racism today may have no social or political consequences. this case is a case in point. for example, in my country, slovakia, despite many warnings and media coverage, i encounter cases where roma children are unlawfully placed in so-called special schools or schools for the mentally disabled, despite being healthy. yeah, it's also institutional racism. it is not enough, my friends, to simply state the facts, but we must act in these cases. i therefore call on the european commission, and indeed on the member states, to find the means quickly to ensure that such incidents do not happen again. the victims are innocent people who suffer because of their skin color or because of their belonging to an ethnic minority because someone dislikes them because they are of a different color or because they are different from the majority.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, as mentioned in the chapter on the netherlands of the 2021 rule of law report, the parliamentary investigation report into the childcare allowance affair called on all state powers to reflect on how to prevent such situations for the future. meanwhile, the venice commission has issued its opinion on the request of the dutch parliament, making a number of recommendations and finding that it appears that, eventually, the rule of law mechanisms in the netherlands did work. we note, furthermore, that a full parliamentary inquiry will further investigate the affair, with hearings planned in early 2023. the commission will continue to closely monitor the developments, including in the context of its annual rule of law report, and the next edition of the report is scheduled for adoption. with regard to compensation, we note that efforts by government to provide financial compensation to the victims of the affair are ongoing and that a comprehensive mapping is being conducted of areas in which legislation may cause undue results for citizens. furthermore, the judicial branch is also contributing to the follow-up to the childcare allowances affair. for instance, through the self-reflection process of the council of state and the active role taken by the council for the judiciary, calling for a permanent dialogue between the different state powers. we note, furthermore, that a full parliamentary inquiry will further investigate the affair, and of course, the commission will continue to monitor all these developments, including, of course, the context of its annual rule of law report. i reiterate that the european commission and myself, as commissioner for equality, will continue to follow these developments in the netherlands and will continue supporting the efforts of all member states to deliver an anti-racist european union. any form of structural discrimination and racism, be it through algorithms or not, is plain wrong and not acceptable for us.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the explanation of vote.
i'm sorry, but i voted for you because i think that the only thing that matters is the water. the fact that you're a priest is a very important part of the life of a person, and you're not supposed to do that. it's just where the hell you are. you should go have clean and safe water on the beach.
i would like to point out, mr president, that our approach to this report unfortunately misses some important aspects which we must urgently address in the european parliament. the agreement reached at last week's council meeting is not the answer for many countries, and slovakia is among the most affected. i believe it is essential to find new solutions, solutions based on solidarity. it is our solidarity and unity today that are decisive for the future of the european union as a whole. i also call today for the process of approving slovakia's application to be expedited and expedited so that the unexpended funds can be used to combat expensive energy. let the current energy crisis be a lesson to us, so that we do not compromise our values and principles any further and never again allow such dependence on undemocratic and totalitarian regimes, which is always a threat.
mr president, today the parliament endorsed the council’s measures to tackle rising energy prices and the misery they are causing so many households. these measures are a step in the right direction, but we all know that much more is needed to tackle this crisis while decarbonising our energy system and eliminating energy poverty. the broken energy market needs to be reformed so that the price we pay for energy reflects the real price of production. we need more effective price caps so that energy companies can no longer exploit this crisis at the expense of workers and families. we need public control of an energy system that has people’s basic right to energy at its core. it should be the role of this parliament to push the other institutions towards stronger policies. this resolution merely echoed the inadequate measures already agreed by the council. now, more than ever, we must do better for our citizens.
this item is closed.
the next meeting will take place tomorrow, thursday 6 october 2022, at 9.00 a.m. the agenda was published and is available on the european parliament's website.
mr president, if the european union is to become a true leader, it must continue to increase its investment in science and research, and in space, which we need to exploit in cooperation with other great powers and preserve for future generations. space-related services already account for 10% of the european union's gdp. space operations, which have increased dramatically in recent years due to the decreasing cost of launching satellites into orbit, complicate this situation. it is now estimated that there are as many as 1 million objects larger than 1 centimeter in orbit around the earth, moving at speeds of 35 thousand miles per hour [56,000 km/ h]. if they collide, there could be a lot of damage and a lot of space debris. the european union, as a space policy actor that wants to be a leader, must also put more pressure on other states to agree to cooperate in the use of space and to adopt a more conservative and sustainable stance. in this context, it is therefore very regrettable and it is, in fact, a great tragedy that this war and the aggressive war of the russian federation in ukraine continues. i therefore fully support this initiative of the european commission and the common approach of the european union to space management.
mr president, duslo šaľa, the largest fertiliser producer in slovakia and one of the largest in europe, closed its operations in august. the official reason was the review and possible repairs, but the company has not yet resumed production. because of the high gas and electricity prices, but especially the lack of aid from the union and our government, and also bad laws, it is really difficult to restore production. but there are many chemical companies in europe that have shut down their production because of the ongoing war in ukraine, our sanctions and russian counter-supplies. much of the production of ammonia and mineral fertilisers in europe has virtually stopped. in some states of the union, farmers have stopped buying fertilizer. in others, they do buy, but at huge prices that have a devastating effect on their competitiveness. this situation really requires us to take a responsible approach, otherwise we will be putting our food security, but also the global food security, at risk. we need to find effective solutions to ensure that fertiliser prices are reduced and take steps to diversify their supply. the european union therefore needs a new strategy to make our fertiliser production and consequently our agriculture less dependent on external factors and suppliers and our farmers less dependent on the use of mineral fertilisers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european agriculture and our farmers are in trouble. for months the people's party has been denouncing how the increase in the cost of raw materials and the price of gas have generated a situation that threatens to block the entire agri-food chain. this debate, i am sorry to say, risks making european farmers or some of us look like those who have no environmental sensitivity, when in fact it is quite the opposite in view of the commitment and the results achieved by european farmers and their full willingness to share a pragmatic strategy where the environment can be protected alongside productivity. because we remember that no environmentally sustainable outcome can be achieved if we weaken our production system. the strategy calls for a ban on the use, not the production, of fertilisers. the fact that europe is the world leader in their production means that it exports to the world what is prohibited within its borders. think about it . if the strategy leads to a reduction in production, imports from third countries will increase and so europe will regard what is exported as harmful and then find it in its own plate. we must ensure that there is a principle of reciprocity, otherwise it means that the wealthier european consumers will be able to afford to buy more expensive european products at their production costs, while the less wealthy will be diverted to buying less expensive but also less safe and less sustainable imported products.
mr. chairman, our farmers are crying out for help. the price of fertilizer is skyrocketing, and our food security is in jeopardy. why would you do that? why have we allowed this outright narcotic dependence on artificial fertilizers to continue and deepen? an addiction that not only kills life in our soil, our rivers, but threatens our security. because the addiction to fertilizer is also the addiction to fossil gas and the putin regime. the way out is not to beg putin for cheap gas. the way is to get rid of the addiction. nature is the best solution. for example, let's encourage the use of soil bacteria, which can not only bring massive savings in fertilizer, but also lower costs and higher yields. yes, it can be done in conventional agriculture. the idea of cheaper fertilisers is not to help farmers, but to help the agrochemical industry. innovative companies from all over europe and, yes, also from slovakia, that bring real, nature-friendly solutions deserve our support. it's time to bring life back to the land so that it can continue to bring us its gifts. it can be done.
mr president, with the murder of mahsa jina amini, she became the angel of women who are fighting against patriarchal state violence over the world. women in iran, turkey, palestine, western sahara, kurdistan, yemen, afghanistan and other countries. since they are women, they are subject to violence. they are murdered. the only solution against this organised violence is women’s solidarity that knows no borders in our common struggle for liberation.
mr president, i of course supported this resolution. what we have seen in iran is a clear desire for freedom, for the destruction of a disgusting totalitarian regime, a regime that has already killed hundreds of thousands of people and maimed many more. the death of mahsa amini shows the brutality of the regime, and the protests show the true face of the iranian people – of people who want to live in freedom, where human life has value and where the law applies to everyone. the iranian people need to hear that europe supports not only iranian women, but everyone in iran who shares the values of democracy and protection of human rights.
that concludes this item. i am very sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that we have now reached the end of our time in the chamber and that the explanations of vote are now suffering as a result. i am very pleased with the explanations of vote, so please also ask your group chairmen. the first is that the conference of presidents is ultimately the one that sets the agenda. secondly, i would like to make a personal observation: the explanations of vote are really there to explain why, despite public promises, we voted a little differently than we might have expected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the real meaning of the explanations of vote and not the substitute speaking time which you may not have had in the debate on the real story. i would therefore ask those who do not wish to speak further on the motions for resolutions on russia's escalation of its war of aggression against ukraine, on the outcome of the commission's review of the 15-point action plan on trade and sustainable development and on 'new impetus for a strengthened maritime policy and the conservation of biodiversity', to please understand and point out that it is possible to put these explanations of vote in writing.
the minutes of this meeting shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next meeting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 6 october 2022.
the sitting was opened at 17.02.
good afternoon, dear colleagues, welcome. could i ask you to take your seats? quite a lot of work ahead of us. i will start with a few more announcements from my end before we come to the adoption of the agenda. first of all, today we mark international day for the eradication of poverty. and on a day like today, we are reminded that far too many people still do not have access to food, water, clothing, shelter, education or health care. far too many people are excluded from society, denied the possibility of a dignified job. far too many people are not given the opportunities to achieve their potential. dear colleagues, our europe has always been a front-liner in the fight against global poverty, but yet a lot still needs to be done. and, sadly, the impact of the pandemic and the direct consequences of russia’s illegal war in ukraine are pushing millions into poverty, and we must work together to counter this. today we have the united nations special rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights in the chamber with us, professor olivier de schutter. thank you for all that you do in strengthening the protection of fundamental rights in europe and around the world, thank you. five years ago, daphne caruana galizia, a maltese investigative journalist, was horrifically assassinated outside her home. they used a car bomb to kill a woman in an attempt to try to silence her to stop her exposing corruption and organised crime. this parliament has been at the forefront of calls for justice, for respect for the rule of law and for media freedom. and for the last half a decade, we have stood with daphne’s parents, sisters and children. we have legislated, we have demanded answers and we have scrutinised. last night, as president of this house, i addressed thousands who gathered in malta and i promised that this house will channel grief into determination to ensure not only better laws for all, but justice for all those involved in her murder and justice for the stories that daphne died to bring to light. so from here, i would like to say the european parliament will always stand on the side of truth-seekers, on the side of democracy, on the side of our values.
october 16 also marks the sad anniversary of the murder of french professor samuel paty. samuel paty was a french citizen, a european, a teacher who worked to help train the next generation. he was the embodiment of our values, of european freedom. he was first hunted down on the internet before he was murdered by those who seek to undermine our way of life. we honour his memory and legacy, while redoubling our efforts to pursue those who spread hatred.
last two points: first of all, i must also mention the murder a few days ago of two young men in bratislava. our lgbtiq community must be safe, we must fight hate. matúš and juraj should never have been a target. and their murder shows how far we still need to go. and i know that this parliament will keep fighting and leading that fight. and in view of our wide human rights sanctions package adopted today, i would like to pay tribute once again to the brave, defiant men and women still protesting in iran. the world really is witnessing a generation standing up, and this women-led movement cannot be left alone. and these sanctions adopted today will hold accountable those who are responsible for the brutal crimes against women, young people and men, demonstrators outraged by the death of 22-year-old mahsa amini. so to the women on those streets: we hear you, the world sees you, we are with you.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sitting of 6 october 2022 are available. are there any comments? that not being the case, the minutes are approved.
following the election of mr silvio berlusconi, ms mara bizzotto, ms simona bonafè, mr carlo calenda, mr andrea caroppo, mr marco dreosto, ms eleonora evi, mr raffaele fitto and mr antonio tajani as members of national parliaments of italy, parliament takes note of the vacancy of their seats from 13 october 2022, in accordance with the rules of procedure. following the appointment of mr lefteris christoforou as a member of the european court of auditors, parliament takes note of his vacancy from 2 november 2022, in accordance with the rules of procedure. since mr christoforou is still here, we bid you farewell, lefteris. i have received from the competent authorities of austria notice of the election to the european parliament of ms theresa muigg, replacing ms bettina vollath with effect from 10 october 2020. ms muigg, welcome. i have also received from the competent authorities of sweden notice of election to the european parliament of mr johan nissinen, replacing ms jessica stegrud with effect from 11 october 2020. i wish to welcome these colleagues and recall that they take their seats in parliament and its bodies in full enjoyment of their rights, pending the verification of their credentials.
the s&d, verts/ale, id and ecr groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
several committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to the rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports, which constitute the mandates for the negotiations, are available on the plenary webpage and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting.
i would like to inform you also that, together with the president of the council, i shall, on wednesday, sign nine acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
let me also inform you that the laureate of the sakharov prize for 2022 will be announced on wednesday afternoon at the end of the meeting of the conference of presidents, between 16.30 and 17.00. the announcement will be preceded by the ringing of the bells and i warmly invite you to be present in the chamber for this important announcement.
and now we come to the order of business. the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents on 12 october pursuant to rule 157, has been distributed. i would like to inform you that i have received two requests for urgent procedure, from the afet committee and from the council, pursuant to rule 163 on: specific provisions for the 2014-2020 cooperation programmes following programme implementation disruption and proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the non-recognition of russian travel documents issued in occupied foreign regions. the vote on these requests will be taken tomorrow and, if adopted, the vote will be held on thursday. we now move to the changes requested by the political groups on tuesday. in agreement with the political groups, i would like to inform you that the debate on continued internal border controls in the schengen area in light of the recent ruling by the court of justice of the european union has been advanced and will be held as a third point in the afternoon after the question time to the commission. and the points on the oral questions on un climate change conference 2022 in sharm el-sheikh, egypt and the council and commission statements on impact of the russian invasion of ukraine on migration flows to the eu will be taken only by the commission. now for today, the left group has asked that a commission statement on frontex’s responsibility for fundamental rights violations at the eu’s external borders in light of the olaf report be added as a third point this afternoon. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended until 23.00. i give the floor to ms cornelia ernst to move the request on behalf of the left group. cornelia, you have the floor.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are asking for an additional debate, namely a statement by the commission on frontex's responsibility for violations of fundamental rights at the eu's external borders in the light of the olaf report. this is the third item on the agenda for today's debate. we are asking for this because the olaf report has only been discussed in a small circle, namely the frontex investigation team, and has been made available to the members of this group and a small circle for a limited period of time. but this report is a real basic document for human rights violations, a proof of human rights violations also by frontex: not only that frontex is involved in human rights violations, but it has actually tolerated them. both of them. there were instructions to look away from the then head of frontex, fabrice leggeri. it covered illegal practices. we were misled. we have been lied to in parliament on several occasions. we know that now, and we can read it there. and there is also a petition that there should be no budget relief for frontex.
can i ask whether any colleague would like to take the floor to speak against this request?
madam president, just very, very briefly. it is not factual what you said. this has been discussed in a full committee, which is the budgetary control committee. so it has not just been discussed in the frontex working group.
we put the vote the request to a vote by roll call. i open the vote. i close the vote. and it has a majority. and, therefore we will have a commission statement on frontex’s responsibility for fundamental rights violations at the eu’s external borders in light of the olaf report to be added as a third point this afternoon, and the sitting is thereby extended until 23.00. on tuesday, the renew group has asked that council and commission statements on the growing hate crimes against lgbtq people across europe in light of the recent homophobic murder in slovakia be added as the third point in the afternoon, after the question time to the commission. this debate would then be wound up with a resolution to be voted on thursday. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended tomorrow until 23.00. i give the floor to vice-president šimečka to move the request on behalf of the renew group.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, as you’ve already mentioned, on wednesday night a 19—year—old extremist shot two people in front of a gay bar in downtown bratislava and injured another. the attacker did not know their names. he didn’t know the victims personally. all he knew was that they were members of the lgbtiq community. that is the sole reason why they had to die. the slovak police are now investigating the case as an act of terrorism. to my knowledge, this would be the first terrorist attack against or targeting lgbtq minority in the european union. what is also important to note is that this act took place against the backdrop or against the culture of hatred, intimidation and intolerance against the lgbtq minority not just in slovakia, but in a number of member states as well. that is why i would like, with your permission and with your support, colleagues, to move this debate and a resolution on growing hate crimes against lgbtiq people across europe in light of the recent homophobic murder in slovakia. i think parliament now needs to send a strong signal of solidarity, but also of standing for human rights and of making clear that, in the european union, nobody should feel threatened or nobody should have fewer rights just because of their different sexual orientation.
in writing. the european parliament will vote on the obligation to have electric car charging stations available at least every 60 km along all motorways and expressways by the end of 2025 at the latest. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the electricity market is in a situation where electricity is not supplied to consumers. i will vote against because i think that is the wrong way to fight greenhouse gas emissions. if we go further, we will also centrally order, for example, the density of electrical charging station manufacturers and components for them. in my view, a much better solution would be for the state to over-priced the negative externalities (greenhouse gas emissions) and for the market to provide the rest (production and purchase of alternative-powered cars, their charging, production of that charging ...). the market (i.e. citizens) would be better able to decide whether electric cars are a more effective tool to combat greenhouse gas emissions than working from home, cycling, bicycling, or, for example, moving more flexibly from one place to another. and so it's also about where charging stations are needed every 20 km and where they're enough every 200.
mr president, it is not at all unusual to read hateful messages on the internet today, in the sense of: kill all the gypsies, kill all the faggots, kill all the jews. sadly, even such online abuse is tolerated by many today. the slovak murderer is another example of how many have been able to tolerate and underestimate hatred against jews, lgbt people and roma. if this bratislava murderer had been praising bin laden, he would have been in jail by now. but since his ideals were hitler and breivik, everyone overlooked this. it ended in a terrorist act, a massacre of two people in the center of bratislava. let me tell you from my own experience. when racists threatened to rape my gypsy wife and kill my negro children one by one, and we were watched from behind our windows, advanced technology failed to find the culprit. how is it that when someone threatens minorities with death, we call it freedom of speech? but how is it that terrorism is a red line for us, but fascism is tolerated by society? hate for the different, the roma, the jews, the lgbt, is not freedom of speech. fascism is as evil as terrorism. and those who spread fascism must be dealt with as firmly as those who spread terrorism.
mr president, commissioner, we are talking about stopping the rise in energy bills, with social and economic consequences, but now, when we are talking, in many member states, bills are being adjusted, bills are being raised, 10 times the cost of energy. and not only in my country, where i have been informed by the citizens that electricity prices have been increased tenfold, but also in belgium, where we are debating this, i have received a letter from a citizen whose bill has been increased from 35 to 450 euros per month and a regularization bill of over 3700 euros. what are the practical measures? because we can't sit in the cold season and talk for eight months about how we can cut our bills? i come from a meeting with sme connect, in my capacity as vice president of the sme intergroup, and the concrete question from entrepreneurs in germany, in austria, where they attended, in slovakia, is how do we lower energy bills? and this must be the answer we give to citizens and smes if we are to avoid social and economic consequences.
mr president, this crisis is the result of our dependence on fossil fuels, particularly gas, and it is affecting people all over europe, and businesses. an addiction that's destroying the climate, and an addiction that's put all the guns in the hands of the biggest drug dealer in the world, putin. but we can best get rid of dependence together, and that is why i am lacking a stronger initiative from the commission, stronger action from the commission to help both citizens and businesses to develop green energy and energy efficiency better. excess profit tax cannot be at national level only, as energy trades take place at pan-european level. traders buy electricity in one country for the next year and sell it in another. purchases that were under 100 euros suddenly have to be compensated for over 300. we need a european solution and i expect it from both the commission and the council in the coming days.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me start by reiterating our support for the ukrainian resistance. i don’t think that this is a formal—only statement because we also have to refuse the narrative that supporting ukraine means not being able to support our citizens. we will not sacrifice freedom in favour of the economy. putin will not divide us. he will not prevail if we act together, with ambition. of course, we know that we are living through a multiple crisis – a geopolitical, energy, inflation crisis – with an impact on the real economy and with some risk of financial spillovers. this global external shock is asymmetric in terms of its consequences. first of all, for low—income countries that have huge, huge debt and food—insecurity problems, but also among advanced countries, the eu is the most affected, by a large margin. we have risks for our competitiveness and risks of fragmentation, and social risks, of course, which we are discussing today. so we will assess the evolution of this crisis – i will present our economic forecast on 11 november, but for sure, the economy is slowing down and this multiple crisis has to be addressed. as you know, the commission will adopt later today a new energy package. i have to say, it is a huge package. gradually, we are finding common ways among member states. of course, it will not be the last. i have three key words for the coming weeks and months on my side and the commission side. the first key word is coordination because of course all the national measures are facing the social consequences of this crisis. we know that the european family is spending 20% of their income on food and 15% of their income on energy, so 35%, but this is an average. of course, we have several countries and several low—income households where food and energy are near to 50% of family expenditure. and the increase that we are looking at is putting these households in a very dangerous situation, and the same is happening for, especially, small and medium companies. so we need to react to support, but also to ensure that this support does not undermine monetary policy efforts because reducing inflation is in the common interest and it is especially in the common interest of the most vulnerable households. so it’s an interplay that’s not easy because we need, of course, a monetary policy. we don’t need exactly the same monetary policy in all areas of the world because europe has particular roots for its own inflation and needs a particular reaction, but this is for the ecb to decide, and our fiscal coordination should complete monetary policy and not compete with it. my second key word is solidarity. from a social point of view, many things were raised in this discussion and i think that our solidarity contribution on windfall profits is a first step. it is connected to energy for the legal reasons that you know very well, but this doesn’t mean that member states could not go further to address these issues. solidarity also means looking at the risks of fragmentation, and we have the same concern that we had during the pandemic because, of course, we have different fiscal space in different countries and we should discuss the possibility of looking to further possible common financial tools based on loans to address these risks of fragmentation. finally, competitiveness – because the risk that there is in the asymmetric consequences of this crisis is for europe to lose competitiveness. so our two main commitments, first, on the clean energy transition, and second, on implementing reforms and investments of next generation eu are not only important because we have to implement what we decide, but they are also important if we want to avoid a difficult situation for the union in terms of global competitiveness.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for this very timely debate on such a crucial topic. the cohesion of our societies is at stake. at the end of the day, there will be a price to pay for all of us as a result of russia’s actions. let us make sure that the burden is fairly distributed. i completely agree with ms garcía pérez, who echoed the recent resolution of this house that citizens should not be obliged to choose between heating and eating. i also take good note of what many of you have said that everybody should contribute in a situation of crisis, especially those with higher profits. let me underline once again that member states and the eu are doing their utmost to cushion the blow on our companies and citizens. we are closely following the evolution of the situation and will adapt our policies according to the needs. this is not an easy task, and it requires swift action across several policies and continuous articulation between member states and eu institutions. in times like these, we should not forget that coordination between member states is absolutely key to ensuring the integrity of the single market and maintaining a level playing field between our economies, as mr niedermayer said. finally, we look forward to receiving a new proposal, which the commission is going to present this afternoon. let me assure you that the council will discuss them swiftly so they can be have a positive impact already this winter. thank you very much once again for your attention and this debate.
the debate is over. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the new measures proposed by the european commission to combat high energy prices are a step in the right direction, but again they will not contribute to an immediate reduction in advance payments and bills for gas or electricity in slovakia. states such as slovakia need in particular to release unused structural funds and use them for immediate social compensation for businesses and local authorities as well as for vulnerable households. as regards the future, the proposed joint gas purchase is certainly beneficial for smaller players such as slovakia. i also support the price fixing of gas used for electricity production, as in spain or portugal, where this has resulted in a real reduction in prices. at the same time, we must find an alternative mechanism to the ttf in amsterdam which, if not prevent, at least limits the speculation generating further price growth.
in writing. in the context of the concurrent crises we are facing at european level, citizens should not be forced to choose between warming themselves and meeting other basic needs. invoice prices must fall so that citizens and smes are protected from the negative consequences of these crises. to help them, especially the most vulnerable, the social democratic group in the european parliament has proposed concrete solutions to counter the effects of these crises. we must ban speculation in the energy market and introduce taxation systems for those who have taken advantage of this context. our initiatives also proposed energy regulation, the unbundling of electricity and gas prices, dynamic capping of gas prices and the reform of energy markets in europe. the european winter plan should address a solidarity component, allowing for a common, coordinated and effective european response.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. – the current crisis brings with it the need for extraordinary public sector action requiring the mobilisation of new funds in significant volumes. they must cover support to citizens and families badly hit by the surging inflation and aid to smes adversely affected in their competitive stance. for multiple reasons, the funds needed cannot only be raised by issuance of new debt. in such circumstances it makes sense to tax those economic sectors which contrary to the rest have seen their profits rise hugely as a result of the crisis. they should be identified in a stringent manner and the nature of their windfall receipts duly assessed. on this basis non-punitive taxes on their windfalls should be defined and charged, on a once only basis or for the duration of the crisis and their persisting high profitability. it is not clear that doing this on a european rather than on a national basis would be fairer or more effective. this is the problem that should be clarified as soon as possible, politically and economically. in implementing a windfall tax, no matter how structured, care must be taken not to unbalance markets in the medium term, even as it remains impossible to predict when the energy crisis will end.
in writing. rising cost of living and prices of essential goods and inflationary pressures that reduce purchasing power are post-pandemic phenomena that have been exacerbated by the ukraine war. this worsening was made all the more noticeable by the context of cross-sectoral inequalities in the european economy and the stark differences in income between the most affluent and the most vulnerable. in this context, the emergency measures proposed by the european commission are a positive contribution and should be adopted as soon as possible. solidarity levies on windfall profits should be applied in the sectors where they occur, in particular in the energy, pharmaceutical and banking sectors, and an efficient redistribution of resources with an effective price-reducing impact on the most vulnerable households and businesses should be ensured. the implementation of these measures is also an opportunity to tackle inequalities and inequalities in income systems in the european union in a more structural way. the measures now taken should be maintained for as long as they are justified and should be complemented by other fiscal solidarity mechanisms and, in particular, by the implementation of the minimum effective tax rate of 15% on profits in all member states.
the next item on the agenda is the council and commission statement on mental health (2022/2868 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are two main challenges to our mental health policies. first, be fully aware of the social determinants. all the indicators of the last few years confirm the devastating effects of the economic crisis, both the one in 2008 and the one from covid, on mental health. rates of acute and non-acute illness, suicide rates, and so on, are rising rapidly in adults, but especially in children and youth, but these impacts are not evenly distributed, the most vulnerable social classes are those in which mental health deteriorates most dramatically, poor and unemployed families are the weakest segment of our society, and their children are therefore the weakest link in these families. that's where mental health is most at risk. the second challenge is the transformation of our health care system. we must move decisively towards the community paradigm, and that means at least three things: generate all the diversity of open, institutional alternatives so that people with mental illness can develop their lives without being separated from the community, put patients and their families at the center of planning the care and health model in the first person, and finally promote the necessary cultural change so that we all learn to live with people with mental health problems in our daily lives, seeing them above all as citizens with the same right to happiness as us.
mr. chairman, across europe, according to the world health organization, 110 million people are living with mental disorders resulting in nearly 250,000 deaths a year. these are terrible numbers. the covid-19 pandemic, additional sources of stress for our citizens, inflation, falling standards, the war in ukraine, the threat of nuclear war, climate change, especially among young people, cyberbullying - inter-class violence... all of this has a socioeconomic background. emotional pain, colleagues, is as strong as physical pain, and mental health, or mental problems, are not a destination but a process. in this process, we need an integrated approach. i believe that developing psychiatry in the community would be a good step, some pilot projects have already been done in the republic of croatia. we need to build a society where therapy and talking to a psychologist is considered normal and desirable. and to make mental health not a taboo subject: we can't just tell someone you're going to be okay. he needs help.
mr president, up until recently, we didn’t talk about mental health and we didn’t do anything for people with mental health. that’s changed now. now we talk an awful lot about mental health, but we don’t do anything for people with mental health. we just talk about it. and now politicians have copped on that this is a popular thing to talk about and to pretend to do something about. what i’m hearing today is a lot of rich people telling poor people maybe they should do a bit of yoga and think about wellness, when in fact their mental health is far more impacted by the fact that they don’t have a house, they can’t afford to rent a house and they have no hope of ever buying a house! there are families with children living in tents and we’re talking about mental health. sort out the basic quality of life for people! if you’d done it for my mother, her mental health would have been a lot better, but all you do is talk about it. you’re not serious about it. this is pure fluff and bullshit.
i would also like to remind colleagues to mind their language, out of respect for everyone here and for our colleagues.
mr president, commissioner, health, we all say that is the priority. mental health is also a priority. but you yourself, commissioner, have said that during the pandemic, during covid, the number of cases has increased, and yes, it has increased because, or because, you have taken measures that are not justified and even the who has said this. does anyone answer these cases? now people are pressured by the cost of energy, the cost of living. again, we're going to have a spike in cases, is anyone responsible for not taking action? you can't just wash your hands and say, "well, health is a national responsibility", as long as you've taken action at the european union level during the pandemic, or if there was a pandemic. commissioner, health is not just a matter of words, words must be backed up by deeds, and that is why i am waiting for a concrete answer. i asked in the other debate: do we have solutions to solve the cost of invoices or not? do we have or do we not have common solutions now, at the european union level, for mental health? because yes, these people are marginalized. these people can't afford, and their families can't afford, to provide them with the care that they should be getting.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, on 10 october we celebrated mental health day. and that is why today i’m wearing a green ribbon, to raise awareness and to make sure that we don’t forget about mental health. now, i want to thank you for the many important interventions i heard today. mep walsh spoke about the need for us to be the voices and the need for us to finally do something about it now. and i think that the fact that we are having this discussion is exactly that. we need to be the voices. mep van sparrentak spoke about the lgbtqi community struggling with mental health issues. online violence, hate speech, bullying. we can and need to do so much more. i heard mep kopcińska and mep kympouropoulos – community models, that’s exactly where we need to be heading. it is crucial. we need to make mental health services community services. we need to reach out to the citizens to find the vulnerable and support them to work towards prevention. we heard various colleagues speak about stigma. people are embarrassed to speak about mental health issues and i want to highlight mep miranda and mep skyttedal and thank them for sharing, because the more people speak out about mental health issues, the more we are able to highlight this, the more we are able to prioritise and do something about it. the darkness of the mind is something we need to overcome and bring light to it. and thank you for sharing light. mep kopacz spoke about the elderly and mep monserrat spoke about the suicide risk and mep véronique trillet-lenoir spoke about the need to actually move forward with this. and i want to tell you that we will be coming forward with initiatives this summer. so a great deal has been said. i don’t think i need to repeat it, but i cannot ignore what mep flanagan has also said. he said: ‘we’re all about talk and we are not doing anything about it’. i have been doing, trying, doing something about it and working in this area all my working life. and i believe the meps in this room and many who are not in this room but have put their voices across today are doing this because we are doing something about it. and as a commission we’re coming forward with an initiative this very summer. so let us all work together. we need to be on board together with this. we need to have strong cooperation and collaboration with everyone. we need to deliver mental health in an all-policies approach. and the european parliament will and can play a key role in this initiative.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for your views. our discussion confirmed that mental health is an issue which cannot be ignored. the presidency of the council is determined to contribute to the necessary cooperation in the area of public health and stand ready to facilitate discussion and cooperation. as a matter of example, we are organising the conference under the auspices of the czech presidency on 14 november in brussels, which focuses on resilient mental health in the european union. and we are, of course, ready to examine the relevant proposals from the european commission in this regard. although the urgency of the covid-19 crisis is over for the time, other crises are seriously impacting the mental resilience of our population and those are ongoing. therefore, public health, including mental health, should remain a political priority for all the reasons that we outlined here, that you outlined here today. of course, there are many areas that are directly influencing the, let’s say, mental resistance of a society. it is a fear of the future. so a lot of delivery is done on the other areas that are going to the prevention of such situation. but, of course, when we talk wellbeing historically and mental health, it is something that goes across the politics. that’s why so many discussions on the other topics also include the topic as relevant to the solution.
the debate is over. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, in tackling today's energy and inflation crises, savings in the union budget should not be taboo either. even in difficult times, citizens cannot solve their problems without saving in their budgets. therefore, we should prioritise shifting some of the resources needed to manage the crisis from inefficient funds to targeted assistance to the vulnerable. we have room to make more efficient use of public funds. the european court of auditors has long pointed to inefficiencies in several funds. even in difficult times, citizens look for ways to increase their income. we too should focus once again on the real sources of economic growth. it's as if we've given up on them over the years of relying on the bank's cheap money and public debt.
vice-president of the commission. – in my view of security, what matters is to have in place robust systemic regulatory rules, systems that allow us to defend ourselves regardless of the individuals involved. and i think this is a golden rule for security. any kind of individual with any kind of pathologies, real or alleged – it is not up to me to issue an opinion – would have a much more difficult role to be a ‘loose cannon’ if the system in place is robust. and to also link this answer to your first question – you were asking about huawei and the way of foreigners, including attempting to control our critical infrastructure – we have precisely set up these rules, like the 5g toolbox. that was an ideal, i think, in my view, framework that we developed, together with thierry breton, to set up the parameters within which each member state could proceed with 5g technology instead of decreeing one single model, top down, ‘take it or leave it’. so i think that through these intelligent approaches to security, which combine very strong regulatory measures and, at the same time, this new awareness about the need of security, the possibility for individuals to play games would be significantly reduced.
vice-president of the commission. – yes. as you may understand, the european union does not have its own intelligence agency, and i do not think it would be wise that we create an additional layer on intelligence agency at the european level. what i think is much more valuable, and it is happening, is to be able to harvest from the richness of the intelligence information that our national agencies develop so that we can all pool resources and face common challenges. for this, there is an element of trust that is needed. our national intelligence agencies do not always feel this need to share. i think this is something that is changing increasingly. but then we should not forget either that these national intelligence agencies are crafted in a way not to share even, very often, within their national situation. so my job within this eu security union that we are constructing is to create a synergetic culture of exchange, information and awareness between our intelligence bodies. i think this is happening. europol is also emerging as a hub of information exchange on very dubious practices, and i think that we are reaching now a point where this level of trust is emerging naturally as a result of the commonality of threats that we are facing.
vice-president of the commission. – yes, this is nicely put. it’s a lateral question to your previous one, but not the same. indeed, for all our security, for all our personnel employed in the institutions, not only the commission, but in all the european union institutions, we have very strong internal rules not only of screening and determining threat profiles depending on the type of jobs that our staff assumes, but also very comprehensive training courses from the start of the professional career in the institutions that inform our staff of the risks involved, of the dangers involved. and i would like to see, working together with my colleague johannes hahn, who is in charge of our administration and our budget, i would like to see that the very successful level of expertise that we have in the commission in these areas is also shared broadly amongst the institutions, including this house, which by its specificity as being an assembly, has more openness, more people coming in, more exposure if you like, to security risks. i take this opportunity of your very hospitable reception this afternoon to reiterate our call for a common security approach between institutions against these kind of threats or risks. we are doing, by the way, exactly this: working together on cybersecurity through the eu-cert network, which is a success story. i am sure that we can build on top of this eu-cert success to do more, including in the sensitive area you just mentioned.
mr president, we are talking now about protecting critical infrastructures and we all talk about material infrastructures. but we also have to talk about immaterial infrastructures, because if we want to have a future in europe, a future of the eu, we need to promote eu emotion and identity. i am nearly 50 years with my wife together. do you know why? i love her, and i hope she loves me. that’s why we are together. we are connected. fans are connected to their club in the eu and due to the uefa’s policies now the premier league is the so-called super league and this will kill the eu football clubs in the eu. are you prepared to start an open dialogue with uefa – how to save the football clubs within the eu, to give them more eu identity and emotion? because in the future we need the people to love the eu.
vice-president of the commission. – yes, i agree with you that when it comes to protecting our union, it does not only concern critical infrastructure, being physical or cyber, but it’s also a union of emotions. we very often come across as something very rigid, very dry, very technocratic, and i’m all for introducing these emotional elements, both in our policies and in our communications. eurovision moments, if you like. now on uefa and european football in general, i agree that football is a vector of cohesion, of diversity, of richness in our societies. football is something that is happening as we speak in our villages, in playgrounds, in schools, in stadiums. it’s something that does not have to do with football clubs or elites or money or its owners, it has to do with us, with who we are. and your question allows me to reiterate our collegial common commitment in this commission to protect at any cost the european model of sport. european sport and european football will always be open to competition linked to amateur sport, part of our way of life, of the type of society we stand for. it will never be a game between elites, rich owners of clubs that play amongst themselves, share huge gains of the tv rights at the expense of the national championships. this is something that will not happen, and i understand there are other options, i fully respect, but i’m here to defend the european model of sport as an element of our identity as people of europe.
i agree completely with you. it’s not about money, it’s about emotion. and my question was, at the moment, the premier league is the super league, which is only filled with money and the eu clubs cannot compete anymore. all the money is going to the uk nowadays. my question is: are you willing to set up an open dialogue with uefa and the commission and perhaps some people who are entrusted to save the eu football clubs in the future to ensure that they are not completely eclipsed by the clubs from the premier league, which is the case nowadays with their loads of money from all countries of the world nobody knows where the money from qatar is coming from who invested in clubs in the uk. it’s not possible in europe. how can we save the eu competition?
i would like to say, mr president, that the questions are not directly related to the subject we are dealing with today at question time, but i notice that two experts in the field of the champions league are talking to each other, and i would therefore like to give the floor to the vice-president once again.
vice-president of the commission. – i do not want to repeat myself. simply to clarify that the national football championships are under the remit of the national arrangements. this is not part of eu law, and uefa has the autonomy to liaise with national football associations and regulate the national championships, like the premier league. what is of european competence, and where my previous reply applies is to any idea of a pan-european arrangement like the so-called ‘european super league’. that would be a closed circuit of the richest clubs that would share among themselves something like eur 5 billion per year at the expense of the rest. this is what is fully against the european model of sport. so, replacing national arrangements is not our job, but safeguarding the openness of european football at european level; yes, it is, and it is linked to the european model of sport, which needs protection.
vice-president of the commission. – sorry, i wouldn’t like to use this occasion to play detective. it’s not my role. and i think that we have to rely on the authorities that are investigating through regional and collective arrangements. when the cr directive is in place, all this would happen automatically. we would be notified, we would have involvement, we will know what happened. but now are in this area that our council recommendation aims to complete, to fulfil, by introducing the obligation to work together to investigate similar incidents. and we had a first meeting of stress tests in our energy sector with member states’ security experts, and there was unanimous support from our security experts to continue working together to investigate the real causes of these incidents. an additional difficulty that we are having in this specific incident, which we tried to remedy also with a recommendation, is that this incident took place not in the territorial waters of denmark. it was extraterritorial. so this adds an additional layer of complication. that’s why in our recommendation today, we keep open the issue of territoriality, or extraterritoriality if you like, that would allow us to investigate similar cases together, including in situations that fall outside the territoriality clause.
vice-president of the commission. – i’m not sure whether the honourable member was here with us from the beginning when i had the chance to explain the new regulatory architecture we are building in europe to defend ourselves against any threat to our critical entities’ resilience. i explained in great detail, i would say, what is for the european union to do and what is for the member states to do. the question that she asks me requires me to position myself outside of my institutional role as the member of the commission in charge of the security union. i am not in charge of the investigation. i’m in charge of establishing, together with the co-legislators, a european architecture for security within which we can find out the truth. this is the crucial difference that apparently you are missing.
mr zimniok was not present when you made your opening remarks, so he could not have known.
i know that you will understand, commissioner, if i ask you directly about a question which is directly related to the subject of this question, live and in person, but which has probably not been raised so far, and that is that of the possibility of not only protecting critical infrastructures against hybrid attacks, but also of sharing information, not only between member states, but with the public. it is shocking that there is still controversy about the actual sequence leading to the attack on the nord stream pipeline, leading to the disruption of communications or allowing the spying on prime ministers or eu leaders and senior eu officials, which prevents the whole of european public opinion from being able to explain in a clear and transparent way what the actual sequence behind these clearly scandalous events is. the question is: besides investing in the protection of critical infrastructure, do we have any plan to be able to talk about what is really happening and explain it to the european public?
the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the mr lópez aguilar, yes, we are building an institutional architecture, for the first time at european level, which will allow us to have a system, which we do not have today, within which the member states will have to notify the european union of their level of protection for all types of companies, entities, exposed to this type of threats, and also an obligation to work together between the member states and the institutions to determine solutions and debug responsibilities. we shall have it: we have the political agreement and i hope that it will be voted on and put into effect as soon as possible. what is not possible, at the moment when we are, with all these investigations still in progress with the member states concerned, is to offer here in the house an assessment. it wouldn't be right, i don't have the information to do that. what i can say - and i have said this to your colleague - is that we had the first meeting of experts from the member states, and we asked them to act as if the directive had already been put into effect. and we are very pleased that this first meeting of experts has shown us that the member states are beginning to converge and realise the need to work together in relation to these types of incidents.
(start of the speech off the record) ... vice-president schinas made it clear that the aim is that such a shocking event as the gas supply disruption or the attack on nord stream should never again be the subject of prolonged doubts as to its cause, who did it, who was responsible and what the european union can do, not only to convey this information in a transparent way to the general public, but also to protect itself as a whole against the possible repetition or reproduction of such a serious event in the future.
vice-president of the commission. – the only thing that i could add – and i think it is an important piece of information that president lópez aguilar requests me to provide – is that when i announced that amongst the novelties of the council recommendation that we’re presenting today, we have this idea of blueprints on critical infrastructure playbooks that our member states can use when they are faced with these types of situations and incidents. these blueprints, let me assure you, will include timely communication and information to citizens. so to clarify your concern, this would not only be a situation where security experts discuss among themselves and investigate jointly, but as part of these blueprints that will be developed there will be an obligation to communicate externally to citizens. this is an important element.
president, vice-president, i am going directly to the two questions which i have. it is common sense that a perpetrator who is guilty of destroying infrastructure and making a lot of casualties needs to pay for this destruction. we talked a lot about the assets of the russian federation – state and local authority assets – in the territory of the european union, but also the assets of the russian national bank. and when we talk with high representative borrell, who was answering that the eu is looking for a possibility to seize or use these assets for the restoration of the damages in ukraine. where is the stage now? what we are going to do in this direction? and many of these assets, the properties are used for espionage in the territory of the european union, pretending this is cultural or educational entities where they are using them for espionage. and i will ask my second question on the on the internet.
vice-president of the commission. – thank you, mr kovatchev. let me start by reiterating that i am personally very much in favour of using the frozen assets of the russian central bank for the reconstruction of ukraine. i think this is morally, politically and, yes, also legally, right, because we could have doubts if we were in a different situation. but we are in a situation of an all-out war where the russian army is bombing schools, maternity wards, hospitals, churches, monasteries, households, apartment blocks. so this is the type this is the type of war we are obliged to deal with and to use these frozen reserves of the russian central bank for the reconstruction of this damage. it makes perfect sense. but, you know, we do not live in a world of politics. we live also in a world of lawyers and insurance brokers and experts and international arbitrators. so when my colleague josep borrell told you that we have to get it right, this is what he has in mind. so let us distinguish between what is politically, morally, legally, ethically correct and how we can best organise it. let me remind this house that there is a precedent. the americans used frozen assets from the central bank of afghanistan to finance the restoration and reconstruction of afghanistan. so this has happened before. it’s not something that is totally alien in the world of international relations.
thank you very much, vice-president, for this answer. one second issue on the responsibility of big platforms, internet platforms. we have now the dsa and the dma, but we see that these big platforms, especially private companies, us companies, are monetarising disinformation. democracy cannot fall victim to a business model of a private company. we see that the fact—checkers, content moderators and trusted flaggers, especially in small—language markets, are not good enough to fight against disinformation campaigns started by the russian federation. especially in small—language markets like in central and eastern europe, we see a lot of spread and visibility of such russian propaganda on the internet platforms, especially on meta, on their platform facebook. so, the implementation of dsa/dma: how can we push these companies that they do their best to demonetarise the visibility of disinformation?
vice-president of the commission. – thank you for this question. let me tell you that as vice-president in charge of promoting our european way of life, i feel very proud that in this political cycle, we managed to have this agreement on the dsa and dma, which is the european way of digital governance. this is something that we should be collectively proud of, this house, the commission and the member states. this was not given and it was done. in europe, through the dsa and the dma, we were able to ask questions that have not been properly answered in certain parts of the world and have never been even asked in another part of the world. we found the right balance, and i think this would be the answer to the problems you raise. of course, we are in a situation, like with the critical entities resilience directive, where these rules have to be enacted. this would be the final protection against it. until then, i also want to be fair with the platforms. i have met many of them and i also attended a plenary debate here in the last plenary session. i think the platforms are increasingly aware of the need to deliver on russian propaganda and disinformation. they know, and they know that we are watching them, and i think that they are making a considerable effort to live up to the expectations bestowed on them. but i would agree with you that their ever—increasing fact—checking capacity and rebuttal capacity should cover all linguistic sections, and especially some of our lesser spoken words on the continent, where the battle of narratives is even more acute. so i fully agree with you on the need for them to do more in these particular settings.
i have three more questions. if anyone else wishes to speak, i ask that he exercise his right of registration. i have on my list mr adam bielan, mrs karen melchior and mr billy kelleher.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. over the past year, the eastern border of the european union and nato has become the object of unprecedented aggression by lukashenka and putin. during russia's brutal attack on ukraine, the kremlin simultaneously stepped up its hybrid warfare tactics, including a large-scale disinformation campaign, of which my country, poland, was a victim as early as last august. there is no doubt that the current russian regime is a threat to stability and security not only in the neighbouring regions but also in europe as a whole. the european union, complementing nato, should long ago take decisive action to increase its capability to prevent hybrid threats in areas such as state terrorism, cyberattacks and energy security. what are the next steps to strengthen eu-nato cooperation in the prevention of hybrid attacks ? whether and how the union minimises unnecessary duplication of defence activities and is the commission considering introducing a mandatory level of cybersecurity spending to strengthen national cybersecurity capacities?
vice-president of the commission. – thank you, mr. bielan, for reminding me of this particularly painful experience that we have witnessed three times in the current commission of the weaponisation of human suffering and migration by authoritarian leaders who use the pain of people to hurt the european union. we saw it for the first time in the greek-turkish border in evros in march 2020, where 20 000 desperate people were put in buses from istanbul to the border under the promise that they will be in munich soon. we saw it again when lukashenko was selling visas, tariffs and airplane tickets, promising iraqi kurds a german residence permit and instead abandoning them in a —5°c forest in the borders with poland, latvia and lithuania. so this weaponisation, this instrumentalisation of migration is in itself a major hybrid threat. and i fully agree that this is something that we need to face. but i must also say that i am very proud because the european union rose to the level of this threat. we stopped this phenomena both in evros, we arranged with countries of origin and transit to stop all incoming flights to minsk, and we held our spanish partners to face similar events in the spanish cities of delta and melilla. so these hybrid threats will not be something that we will take lightly. we are aware, we know and by now, if i may say, we have also developed a know-how on how to cope with these situations.
thank you, commissioner, especially for your words on the situation on the polish/belarusian border. i'd like to ask the commissioner about the protection of critical infrastructure. the sabotage activities at nord stream indicate the need to take all available measures to increase the resilience of critical actors. although the draft critical entity resilience directive has not yet been formally adopted, does the european commission intend to activate the cooperation mechanisms indicated in the draft?
vice-president of the commission. – the answer to your question is yes, absolutely. precisely, this council recommendation that the college of commissioners has adopted an hour ago is precisely meant to frontload the regulatory provisions of the directive, now when we are facing this incident, so that we can cope as of now, before these texts are published in the official journal. and let me again, i think i will not repeat everything i said on the essence of this protection, but i would concentrate on three important elements that can be very helpful. first, risk assessments. we need to be able to have comprehensive risk assessments on the type of threats, on the origin of threats and the likelihood of threats. two, as i was telling president lópez aguilar earlier, we need blueprints, playbooks for response. what do we do in what situation? and this is also provided for. and finally, stress tests. we need to be able to test the limits of our resilience, work together, bring expertise together. and this is something that is particularly relevant in the area of energy and pipelines.
vice-president of the commission. – let me thank you for bringing up the maersk incident, because actually i was saying that we started with this package of cer directive and nis2 directive physical and digital together before the war. and one of the reasons that we started with this parallel track of protection was precisely because we had this pattern of attacks to companies. you mentioned maersk, but the most blatant, if you like, universally known attack was the attack on the colonial pipeline in the united states, where there was a combination of a digital attack against the critical infrastructure. so the combination, including ransomware, although our american friends were very effective at dismantling this and also recuperating the ransom paid. but the guiding, the original idea of this parallel protection track between the critical entities resilience directive and nis2 directive was precisely that – to make europe a place where similar incidents and threats would not be so easy as they were in the case of maersk’s and in the case of the colonial pipeline. so, yes, i was saying it earlier and i repeat it proudly now, we are now better prepared. we are much better prepared from the time where these incidents happened. now, on ukraine. the ukrainians are doing a great job in defending themselves against the cyberattacks. and this is something that they are not doing alone. they are doing it with the help of their friends. and without going into much detail, let me assure you that the european union is part of this ring of friends that allows ukraine to defend themselves successively in the cyberwar. we are not alone. other international partners and entities help ukrainians in this struggle. and the only thing that i can tell you is that when this war is over, there will be many pilgrimages to kyiv to find out how precisely this battle was so successful. because i can assure you that we have very good results in the fight against cyberthreats.
vice-president of the commission. – yes, mr kelleher, i have the fullest respect for the constitutional arrangements of our member states, and i’m not here to express any opinion on the neutrality status or the membership that any member state can have with international organisations - in the case of ireland, nato and others -, but you are raising a very important, relevant element, namely how all member states can be covered against these types of threat. and you gave me the opportunity to reiterate that ireland will be fully, fully covered by this shield that we are building with the critical entities resilience network and the infrastructure and the network information system directive. this would be a parallel shield, if you like, against digital and physical threats that would cover all member states regardless of their being a member or not, of international security arrangements and organisations. this is eu law that would cover all our member states. now, on the specific incident that you mentioned, i am aware of it. i think this pertains more not to the security/homeland competence, which is both mine and the commission’s, but both on the defence side, but in case that these threats would materialise against the critical infrastructure of ireland in its territorial waters, the cr directive would fully cover it. and even if there was an extra territoriality element to it, i was telling earlier your colleagues that with our council recommendation today we leave open the issue of territoriality coverage so as to be able even to go beyond in cases like that.
vice-president of the commission. – yes, i fully agree with the honourable member that, first of all, we are of course, very well aware of the attack against the irish health system, and this is also the type of attack which is now becoming very common - for a very simple reason that the attackers prefer attacks against our health systems, hospitals, because these are places that hold a huge amount of data and this is gold for them. so we have seen recently a shift from the traditional attacks against financial institutions, banks, towards national health systems, hospitals and so on and so forth. so yes, we are fully aware that we have to prioritise under our shield of nis 2 related instruments the attacks against health systems. this is an area which is particularly sensitive in our coverage. this is an area that is even more important because you would have seen that a few months ago we have proposed, for the first time ever, and i think it’s also a world first, a new initiative for an eu health data space that would give access to citizens and researchers to our health data potential that would facilitate research, but also mobility in the internal market. of course, under the full protection of gdpr and privacy laws. but to get it right in the area of health data is one of the most important priorities of our cybersecurity strategy, let me assure you.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, yes, mrs bonfrisco is right when she asks how confident we are that this new protection shield will produce the results we need. the answer is that we are much more confident that we now have a level of protection that we never had in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are a target and we will continue to be a target, but at the same time we will have ever better defenses, ever more convincing defenses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, which are not in line with the commission's proposal. this will happen once the relevant texts have been voted on here in the european parliament and formally adopted by the council of the european union. but we're at the end. and thirdly, i agree with you completely. i would like to add my support to mrs bonfrisco's statement that this is not just a matter of national security. it is also a matter of economic security and competitiveness for european businesses i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. every time we can help by putting up this firewall, we're not just helping governments and citizens. we also help businesses be able to compete in this increasingly uncertain global security landscape.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i have no doubt that italy is a very important member state for all these matters we are discussing, both because of its size and political importance, and also because too many powers might be tempted to create such threats against a state like italy. but i repeat what i said to mr kelleher, that beyond national circumstances and situations, this regulatory framework that we are perfecting, the critical infrastructure protection framework and the network security framework, will adequately cover all the member states of the european union, regardless of the size and exposure to the risk of cyber attacks and attacks against the critical infrastructure of each country.
dear commissioner schinas, ευχαριστώ πολύ – thank you very much for being here today with us. i believe this debate is extremely timely indeed. the sabotage of nord stream 2 can be seen as an alarm bell that is telling us that we can be hurt substantially through physical actions, not to mention the already well—known capacity of third actors to interfere in our democratic processes through hybrid means. while it is certainly true that we must create and empower ad hoc bodies and entities such as the hybrid response team, i have always considered it essential to follow a whole—of—government and whole—of—society approach in order to increase our resilience. to this extent, the strategic compass clearly states that one of the main points will be a reinforcement of the cyber diplomacy toolbox. therefore, i would like to ask you to elaborate further on the way forward for moving this will from paper to concrete actions. will it be possible to include provisions on cyber actions in the international agreements that we signed for trying to prevent cyber attacks as much as possible? and what about the diplomatic responses to be put in place in case these efforts fail?
vice-president of the commission. – thank you for this question. it’s a last question, but indeed, it covers an area that has not been covered so far, an area which is not under my remit of eu security vice-president, but an area which is particularly relevant to the issues we are discussing today. this diplomatic toolbox is a fantastic instrument that we have at our disposal to be able to hit, to be able to act. and we used it, as you know. we used it against a few cases, but we used it effectively each time that we had solid evidence on the perpetrators and the culprits of these attacks. this is an instrument which is in the remit of our foreign policy head, josep borrell, with whom i’m working very closely on all of these areas. what i can tell you is that, as far as i am concerned, i would plea for more frequent and effective use of this facility, although we have the difficulty of unanimity, as you well know, because each time that we have to use it, we have to find and seek unanimous agreement in our member states, which is not the easiest thing to do at european union level. but the instrument is good. the instrument is good. this also reinforces my perception that when we are discussing security and threats, the threats we are facing are mutually dependent. so if we have a failure in a high—voltage line in germany, for example, then we have millions of customers in france, in italy, in spain, cut off from the grid. and if we have an undersea gas pipeline being attacked, this would have an impact on many countries far from the scene of the attack. so this interconnection of threats and the fact that they are mutually dependent compels us to use every instrument we have at our disposal, both within the remit of eu law and in the remit of our foreign policy.
i think this question time has been a big success, we will close it now.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, good afternoon and thank you for the invitation to this debate. the czech presidency deeply deplores the terrible attack at an lgbtiq establishment in bratislava, which caused the death of two young people on wednesday, 12 october, and the hateful anti-semitic manifesto which led to this horrific act of unjustifiable violence. let me be very clear from the start. there is no place for homophobia anywhere in europe. sexual orientation and gender identity are aspects of who we are. no one should feel a need to conceal their true selves in order to avoid discrimination, hate or even violence. all citizens of a union are equal and should live freely, safely and without discrimination, regardless of their sex, race, colour, religion or sexual orientation. these are principles and values solemnly enshrined in the eu treaties, the charter of fundamental rights and eu legislation. they are not up for discussion. our common european commitment to decency, tolerance and equal treatment is the very foundation of the idea of a just society. this is a source of pride of europeans and for good reason. it is also necessary not to overlook the anti-semitic motivess that are expressed in his manifesto. there is no place for anti-semitism anywhere in europe, and the czech presidency is determined to keep working on fighting this form of hatred. if we look over the past years, progress is undoubtedly made on lgbtiq rights. however, the most recent survey by the fundamental rights agency has shown that as many as 43% lgbtiq persons feel discriminated against. one in ten lgbtiq respondents were physically or sexual attacked and trans and intersex respondents experience attacked at higher rate. what makes matters even worse is the fact that most of these injustices go unreported. overall, across the eu, only 11% of discrimination suffered is reported and only a small percentage of hate-motivated incidents are reported. at the same time, we have seen in recent years a sharp rise in hate speech and hate crime in europe. those developments are linked to a number of factors, including disinformation as well as the growing use of internet, including social media. eu action to address the dissemination of hatred content, including all forms of violent extremism and terrorism online, is therefore particularly relevant. in this regard, much has been done to cooperate with internet companies, but this cooperation needs to be stepped up. in particular, more information about how they handle borderline content would be useful. the council has discussed violent extremism and terrorism in light of the increasing polarisation in our societies. the conclusion is clear: we need further efforts to prevent radicalisation leading to violent extremism and we as politicians, should lead by example. so the discourse that somehow covers those things that i mentioned should not be a part of the political discourse in a democratic society the way it was described. so how to address the situation that is currently raising not only on the internet, we need to cooperate on the eu and internationally to counter those extremist narratives, always in full respect for the principles of freedom of speech and expression. as requested by european parliament in some of its resolutions, the commission proposed the extension of the list of eu crimes to cover hate speech and hate crime. the presidency will continue to seek the necessary consensus to reach an agreement.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am really grateful that you have included this debate on growing hate crimes against lgbtiq people across europe on the agenda, considering the recent homophobic murders in bratislava. my thoughts are with the families and friends of 23-year-old matúš horváth and 26-year-old juraj vankulič, the victims of the shooting in slovakia, but also with the lgbtiq community all over the world. this attack reminds us of this summer’s terrorist attack prior to oslo pride, killing two and injuring several others, and other attacks that have targeted the lgbtiq community in recent years. these abhorrent murders are a threat to our societies built on human rights and equality. in recent years, hate speech and hate crime targeting persons based on sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression and sex characteristics, but also targeting organisations supporting lgbtiq rights have increased globally, including across the european union. as we have already heard from the minister, the 2019 fra lgbti survey clearly documents that one in ten lgbtiq respondents in the eu were physically or sexually attacked in the five years before the survey because they are lgbtiq. trans and intersex respondents experienced attacks at up to twice the rate of the rest of the community, while only one in five incidents of physical or sexual violence was reported to any organisation. the european commission is determined to ensure that everyone feels safe and free to be who they are and love who they want, wherever they are. the commission has taken important steps to end the exclusion of and discrimination and violence against sexual and gender minorities. two years ago, we adopted the lgbtiq equality strategy, which combines targeted actions with the mainstreaming of lgbtiq equality in all policy areas. as part of the strategy the commission adopted last december a communication accompanied by a draft council decision to extend the current list of eu crimes to hate crime and hate speech. if this council decision is adopted by member states, the commission will be able in a second step to propose secondary legislation which would allow the eu to criminalise other forms of hate speech and hate crime than the ones currently laid down in the framework decision on combatting racism and xenophobia. the commission is also focusing on creating dialogue and exchanges of good practices among member states. we have set up an lgbtiq expert subgroup, which meets regularly and agreed on guidelines for strategies and action plans to enhance lgbtiq equality, which also covers hate crimes. and on hate speech and hate crimes since 2016, a high-level group on combating hate speech and hate crime provides a forum for dialogue and good practice exchange among national authorities. the work has focused on better support of victims, stepping up hate crime, training for law enforcement and enhancing reporting and hate-crime data collection. the high-level group has just adopted key guiding principles on cooperation between civil society organisations and law enforcement, in particular, to address the persistent underreporting of hate crimes. this summer, these two work strands came together in a dedicated session on tackling hate crime and hate speech against lgbtiq people. the sessions served to highlight promising practices from both member states and civil society organisations. the commission also continues to provide funding under the citizens equality rights and values programme to initiatives aimed to tackle hate crime and hate speech, as well as to enhance lgbtiq equality. equality bodies can play a key role to collect reports of discriminatory acts. this is why we will soon present a new proposal on equality bodies to strengthen their independence and to make sure that discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, at least in the field of employment and occupation, is part of the remit in all eu member states. we continue to push for the adoption of the 2008 proposal for a horizontal anti-discrimination directive that would extend protection against discrimination to all other areas of life. dear members, hate has no place in europe. all institutions must join forces to put an end to it.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it started with a word – they call us ‘poofter’, ‘dyke’, ‘faggot’ – but it ended with a knife, a fist or, in this case, a gun. that is the reality we face when our communities and our leadership do not take hate speech seriously. this is the result of inaction in the face of growing radicalisation of far—right and conservative narratives. last wednesday, slovakia, europe and the world lost two of our siblings to hate and intolerance. hate and intolerance which many of us saw coming. our community saw the warning signs in every tweet and every post and every alt—right hand gesture hidden in photographs. our community has lived lives where phrases have turned into fists and insults have turned into injuries. and we have begged you to pay attention while many have accused us of only seeking attention. commissioner, juraj and matúš were killed because we have allowed the right—wing to distract our political discourse with talk of pronouns and wokeness in the face of rising radicalisation and violence by their supporters. madam commissioner, deputy prime minister, i urge you to take more action on the rising hate. once again, our community is begging you.
for the renew group. mr. chairman, we should never have had this debate. matus and yuri were supposed to go home to their loved ones after work or school today. they should have the inalienable right to live, to live fully, to live freely and without fear. i would therefore like to express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims of this terrorist attack in bratislava, the first ever on the lgbtiq community in the european union. if there is any hope in this terrible act, it is that we have seen it in the streets of slovak cities in recent days, where tens of thousands of people have signed up for respect, equality and acceptance. and we see hope here, also here, this week in the european parliament, where my colleagues across the continent, across the ideological spectrum, are expressing solidarity with the lgbtiq community in slovakia and calling for an end to the language of hate, but also the reality of discrimination. yes, this heinous act has united europe, and its message is clear. we will never, ever accept that in today's european union there are people who, simply because of their different sexual orientation, must live in constant fear without full rights, who must be the eternal target and victim of political games and ideologies, and that europe and this parliament will always stand by them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, so many moments have passed now where we had to express our condolences and our solidarity with victims of hate crime and terror. of course, first and foremost, also today our love and solidarity goes to the victims, their loved ones and the whole lgbti community in slovakia. but i want to take this opportunity and say something else as well. words have consequences. this attack did not start when the shooter picked up the gun. this attack started long before. it started with words, with words of hatred, uttered on social media, on the internet, but also unfortunately uttered in places in this parliament. words that deny us fundamental rights. words that deny us equality. words that go as far as denying our very existence. words that frame us as a threat to society and that dehumanise us, just because we love someone or because we were assigned the wrong gender at birth. i want to say this to the far right: stop these hate campaigns. your words have consequences. and i want to say to all of us: we cannot start at launching investigations after terror attacks like this have happened. we have to start when these words of hatred are being uttered. we have to stand up to this hatred in our societies and not just as queers, but everyone who believes in democracy, freedom, fundamental rights and peaceful societies.
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you for speaking in this very important debate, which is also my first, my first speech in this house. recently, two gay men were shot dead outside a gay bar in bratislava. it is a very tragic event. as an lgbt person, i think it's very horrible to see this, because i can think that it could be me and my boyfriend who were exposed to this or any of my friends. although europe is very open and tolerant, i do not feel safe walking around holding my boyfriend's hand in public, because i know that you can be exposed to threats, hatred and harassment. i'm far from alone in feeling the same way. what happened is not an isolated incident. we all have to work to make our communities safer, regardless of political affiliation. as a full member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i will work across party lines to make society safer. so i'm reaching out to the rest of you to join in that work.
on behalf of the left group. – my thoughts and hearts go out to the families and loved ones of juraj and matúš. my heart goes out to all my lgbtqi siblings in slovakia who, rightfully so, feel scared and threatened. we in the european parliament, we stand with you and we stand up for you. but the kind of hatred that ends up taking lives does not appear from nowhere out of the blue. we all know this. we know that this kind of hate against lgbti people, it exists in far right circles where an ideology of hate and an ideology of violence meet each other. and it is being legitimised by words and deeds, by political leaders that fuelled the discrimination by using hateful rhetoric, scapegoating lgbti communities. words matter. matúš and juraj, saying your names is to remember you, saying what killed you, far right lgbtq phobia commits us all to do everything we can to stop it. we need legislation. we need education. we need institutions. we need that every politician and public figure to stand up against this hatred. and we have to start this now.
mr. president, i am from slovakia, i am the chairman of the slovak patriot party. the slovak patriot party is the only party in slovakia that has in the fifth point of its electoral program, and in general program objectives, the fight against all forms of extremism and movements aimed at suppressing fundamental human rights and freedoms. i'm not saying that if every political party had adopted this agenda and made it a top priority, that what happened in bratislava could have been avoided, but it might have helped. perhaps it would help more than calling various meetings and talking about what to write declarations for the agenda of each political party, as the slovak patriot political party, of which i am the president, has. on the other hand, i must say something about a certain part of the liberal spectrum, who try to create a situation as if slovakia were a state of xenophobes, homophobes, racists: it is not true. slovaks are not genetically predisposed. we were never the engineers of the twisted ideologies of fascism, racism, world wars, guillotines, slavery. for a very short period of time, slovakia had a period of racism, fascism, but we were able to deal with that very quickly in the slovak national uprising. i simply want to declare from this place that slovaks have never been, are not and will never be a nation of extremists, homophobes and racists. the actions of a half-wit who doesn't even know who he is... (the chairman interrupts the speaker)
mr. chairman, matthew and george were the victims of a young extremist and our thoughts are with them and the survivors. it is shocking that we are witnessing terrorism against minorities today. it's shocking that the killer has been promoting racism and hate with impunity on social media, and it's shocking that he's also threatened the entire community, especially elected officials. just realize that this killer was waiting for the prime minister on the day of the murder. the 19-year-old killer, who happens to be a student at an elite school, before his terrorist attack, published a manifesto expressing hatred for people of another race, another religion, another sexual orientation, and also his admiration for mass murderers. but we are all different, we all come from different places, we all have our own opinions, beliefs, ideas, but what unites us is the ability to listen and tolerate each other. we also need to talk about the role of schools in education, the irreplaceable role of the family in education, the prevention of hate speech on social networks, and respect for democratically elected representatives. what we need today is tolerance, tolerance of each other, tolerance of other faiths, of other sexual orientations, and only then can we defeat the evils of extremism, hatred and intolerance.
mr president, like my predecessors and those who will speak after me, i too would like to express my deep condolences for what happened in bratislava. and i must say that it was such a pleasant surprise to me that all the relevant political parties and movements in slovakia condemned this shameful act. it was a very important message to the public that even political parties and movements that advocate for more conservative politics or conservatism said, no, this is not the way. the question now is how to deal with what happened. we cannot say that slovak society is different from other european societies. we are no more homophobic or more racist or anything more than other european nations. we're exactly the same. i used to support the rainbow parties when most of the politicians in the european parliament today were still in kindergarten or school. i've been here for 20 years and i remember how king gal and i prepared the fundamental rights report after the lisbon treaty was adopted, how we looked for every single word on the protection of minority rights, but also on social rights. so my final word, mr president, would be to look for common ground, to look for common solutions, to use the plenary not for what divides us but for what can unite us, how we can improve the situation ...
mr. president, we cannot bring the young matúš and juraj back to life. his 19-year-old killer killed himself, but before he did, he found it comical not to feel remorse. he had dehumanized the look he gave to the people he murdered through a mixture of prejudice, bigotry and bigotry. authorities are investigating the killings as perhaps the first case of lone wolf terrorism in europe with a homophobic motivation. so, an ideological crime, deliberate, in the last link of organized hate. twenty-one people died, at least, from some form of homophobia in just five european countries between 2015 and 2020. verbal intolerance is what breeds monsters. it's time, ladies and gentlemen, to open your eyes. and the european institutions have to face up to their responsibility, the typification of socially motivated hate crimes as eurocrimes. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the union. we can't give life back. we must therefore prevent the growth of intolerance and avoid impunity, whether social, institutional or judicial.
under the new procedure we can have statements or questions. that was a statement, in my opinion; there was no question. would you like to reply? under the new rules you have a right to reply.
mr. chairman, the grief we feel after a cold-blooded fanatic took the lives of two young people will last a very long time. mathews and yura, we will never forget. i want to remind you today that we have one recipe for hatred that is immediate and effective. our words have great power. people in the public sphere, please be very careful about how you talk to lgbtiq+ people, what messages you send them in politics. each of us not only can but especially must be a bulwark against ridicule, hurtful innuendo, and vicious hatred. let us guard against foul language and stand up for those who are being attacked. as politicians, we also need to come up with measures that make life easier for our lgbtiq+ fellow citizens, neighbours or friends and really level the playing field in their daily functioning. we have a long-term debt to them that it's time to pay, especially in countries like slovakia. ladies and gentlemen, i believe we have what it takes.
mr president, commissioner dalli, this parliament has debated many times about the increase in hate crimes in the european union, but it could not miss this debate which is not only about a hate crime, but about a crime against the lgbtqi community on the grounds of sexual orientation perpetrated by a right-wing gunman. so, in addition to what has been said and the council statement which i believe we all subscribe to and support in this european parliament, it must be said that any form of complicity with the extreme right is directly in line with the increase in hate speech, which leads directly to hate crime. the council must also be told that it must make a serious effort to lift the blockade imposed by poland and hungary on the inclusion of hate crimes arising from hate speech in the euro-crimes referred to in article 83 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we need european legislation against hate crime as soon as possible.
mr. president, mr. matusz horváth and mr. juraj vankulič, allow me first of all to express my sincere condolences to all their loved ones and friends. matus horvat and juraj vankulic were murdered because hatred had become a completely normal thing. and i'm not just talking about the extremists that we have here. i am also talking about the top representatives of the parties in slovakia, which belong to the epp and snd groups. i'm talking about the former prime minister, who is the leader of the strongest political party in the current coalition and belongs to the epp, and i'm talking about the leader of the party, which is a member of the snd party, who normalize hatred against the lgbtiq community in slovakia. hatred killed matus and yuri. hate can kill us if we don't stand up to it, but we have to clean up our own house.
mr president, the continued border controls and closures in some member states must end now. the court of justice has now indisputably established what we knew all along: that continuous border controls and closures are illegal. the latest extension of border controls by france until 23 april, arguing new terrorist threats, makes a mockery of the union’s law and the court. worse, by keeping controls and blocking crossing points in catalonia, france is endangering the livelihood and personal ties of thousands of catalans north and south of the border. one month ago, i stood here asking that the border at banyuls be open, but the rocks blocking the road are still there. france shows no intention of changing course. now i ask you, commissioner, to act. i ask you to uphold a cornerstone principle of this union and protect the freedoms of european citizens. make france open the borders now.
mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, when you ask the citizens of slovakia what they see as the biggest benefit of the european project, schengen has for years topped the list of their answers. schengen is europe. if we weaken, undermine or dismantle schengen, we weaken, undermine and ultimately destroy europe. free movement of people inside the european area is the cornerstone of our values. we must cherish it and stand up for it, especially when schengen faces existential threats. unfortunately, temporary border controls between member states of the schengen area have become a new norm. they complicate travel, work and freedom for many central europeans. any member state should use internal border checks only in exceptional circumstances and as foreseen by the treaties. dear colleagues, as the recent ruling by the european court of justice tells us, we as european lawmakers must insist on the principle of rule of law and its due application. member states must work on the basis of common rules. there is only one schengen and there are no bilateral solutions, only joint european solutions, to safeguard it. we must invest together in a more effective protection of the schengen external border, give more power and resources to frontex and insist that our accession partners in the western balkans are serious and work with us by harmonising their respective visa policies with the eu. schengen is european freedom that we must protect and spread.
mr president, a uachtaráin. these are special times from a climate and energy perspective. the decisions to be taken at cop27 will shape climate and energy policies and have an impact on all of us. with worrying peaks of energy poverty affecting vulnerable families, small businesses and local authorities all over the eu, we must act urgently. making our energy system independent of russian fossil fuels and fossil fuels in general is the big challenge. an acceleration of what is the most important legislation in the current mandate, the fit for 55 package, is top priority. it is vital that fit for 55 is adopted as a unit in order to show the strong leadership and commitment of the eu and its member states to ambitiously contribute to closing the gap necessary to limit global warming. i am happy to be travelling to egypt as part of the itre delegation. we need to act urgently and move from commitments to results. we need to act now.
mr. president, the climate crisis affects all of us. it's not a european problem, it's a really, really global problem, and that's why we must not forget that what we experienced this summer in europe, we experienced in pakistan, we experienced in america, and it's possible that they will experience this winter in australia and in the southern hemisphere. not only is this a global problem, but the solution is also global. europe is not alone in this, and we must lead, but we must work together. working with africa, working with asia, working with the americas is the key to the solution. it's the basis of the solution not just for saving the climate, it's the basis of the solution for high inflation through green energy, it's the basis of the solution for protecting biodiversity through using nature as a solution, whether it's in capture emissions or adaptation to climate change. it is the key to the solution for the development and prosperity of societies both in europe and elsewhere in the world. let's work together.
mr president, even in the context of the current dramatic situation, we must continue to support our ambitious climate goals. this will also lead to a reduction in our dependence on third countries and to a strengthening of our autonomy. the european union must remain the world leader in reducing emissions. but it's not just up to us to keep warming to just one and a half degrees, and that's why we in sharm el sheikh have to push for the rest of the world to meet its commitments. but the reality is different. there's a huge gap between our aspirations as an advanced world and what we're committed to and what we're doing. enough of promises, enough of further raising the bar. we can't push the saw. we need concrete action to address the climate emergency and prevent unnecessary hundreds of thousands of deaths from climate change, from urgently reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing resilience and adapting populations to drastic climate change, to committing to sustainable climate finance in developing countries. we also need to mobilise private investment and involve the sectors that have been responsible for the biggest polluters for decades. if we are serious about climate, we must also prevent emissions exports and trade with countries that do not meet the strict criteria we have set for ourselves in our union.
mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner, i think europe’s answer to this devastating humanitarian crisis was quick and decisive. this was unprecedented and the overwhelming support coming mainly from the citizens of the european union and i would like to thank them once more. it seems that we have learned our lessons. at least i hope that we have learned our lessons from previous crises. and we must continue to take bold actions and to confront the challenges during the next phase of this humanitarian crisis. we open our doors to ukrainians, to our friends from ukraine, but also it is time to show solidarity with those coming from russia, fleeing from russia and seeking refuge. as the winter approaches, the number of arrivals could increase again. therefore, i think unanimity in full support to those escaping from the war is needed more than ever. we must guarantee that the eu will proceed with long—term objectives and will implement the necessary reforms when it comes to migration.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, as russia wages its brutal aggression against ukraine, one of the starkest images of the war is the plight of ukrainian citizens running with few belongings either across their country to safety or to neighbouring countries. as russia’s destruction of civilian objects and infrastructure continues indiscriminately, these chilling images are among the most profound. ukrainians today are the faces of refugees in europe. i would like to thank all the european citizens that have shown solidarity with ukraine and refugees. european countries are sharing a disproportionate burden. some are transition countries; some are becoming new homes to thousands of ukrainians. to all those who actively volunteered to open the doors of their homes, share their meals, a big thank you. europeans have welcomed ukrainians with open arms. long before russia’s war on ukraine, russia and belarus used migration as a political tool to rattle european solidarity. putin’s regime’s cold calculation is that europe will not be able to manage ukraine’s refugees and will give in to fierce migration bickering between member states. well, let’s be clear. we must prove putin wrong. to putin, we say, get out of ukraine. stop terrorising its population. stop making people leave their homes, their jobs, their friends and families. we will never succumb to your methods. europe will remain in solidarity with ukrainian refugees, and europe will find a way to manage migration in a unified way. i’m convinced.
madam president, mr commissioner, mr minister, he is not here at the moment. on 21 july, the council added mr jozef hambalko, a citizen of the slovak republic, to the european anti-russian sanctions list. mr hambálek thus became the only european to be included on the anti-russian list, since all other citizens on that list are, of course, citizens of the russian federation. on the basis of this decision, mr hambálk's bank accounts were blocked, his cars were seized, he was disconnected from gas, from electricity, in short, he was liquidated and, moreover, he was banned from moving and residing in the territory of the european union, which is totally legal nonsense, since he is a citizen of the slovak republic and this cannot be fulfilled. so far, no one has explained on what basis and on what arguments mr hambálek was placed on the anti-russian sanctions list. the slovak authorities are distancing themselves from this, the council has not answered my questions for two months. i would therefore ask you, mr šefčovič, to look into this case, because in the 21st century i find it unacceptable that citizens of the european union are placed on some political sanctions lists and then extinguished without the possibility of a public trial, without the possibility of a defence and without a proper court decision.
mr president, i suppose if all 705 meps were here and i asked each of them who is a right-wing extremist, no one would raise their hand. if i asked in sweden, in italy, in hungary, in poland, in spain, in croatia, who is a right-wing extremist and who voted for right-wing extremists, no one would raise their hand. simply, everyone would tell me that he is a patriot, that he is a patriot of his country, that he is a swedish patriot, an italian patriot, a hungarian patriot, a croatian patriot. what's troubling you liberal democrats is that right-wing extremism isn't on the rise, but patriotism is on the rise, and patriotism is neither right-wing nor left-wing. patriotism is simply patriotism, a relationship with the country. and as long as strong patriotic states are national, so will a strong europe. and unless there is patriotism in every state, a sense of citizenship, love for their country, for belonging to europe, then this may end here. i'm also the president of the slovak patriot party in slovakia, and since this gentleman is beating, i'm quitting.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the european union has a historic responsibility to give momentum to enlargement towards the western balkans. it is now crucial, not only from an economic and strategic point of view, but also from a defence and security point of view, to include the countries of the western balkans in this period of war, and we especially need this region to remain stable. hungary is therefore committed to supporting accession and the establishment of a concrete timetable. we welcome the fact that the commission has formally proposed bosnia and herzegovina as a candidate for eu membership. further delay in enlargement would seriously harm europe's security interests, and thus those of hungary. the pressure of illegal migration along the dangerous western balkans route, which is increasing, must be stopped. the region, and in particular serbia, can play a key role in protecting the union's external borders. the consequences of the european energy crisis must also be reduced in the western balkans, and joint energy cooperation projects must therefore be implemented as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, russia's illegal, brutal aggression against ukraine is profoundly reshaping the eu's enlargement policy because russia's war is also a war against eu enlargement. let's be clear about this. russia is waging war directly against ukraine, an eu candidate state, and russia is at war with european democracy, values and freedoms and consequently fights on one of our most successful policies – enlargement – via continuous disruption and malign interference for a number of years, including in the western balkans. our partners in the region have lived through the tragedy and destruction of the 1990s. no one in europe knows better what war on our continent means. i greatly appreciate all those voices in the western balkans which have shown that there is no room for relativising the return of war to our continent. clear alignment on common foreign and security policy is clear alignment to our values. it is the essence of showing commitment to moving forward on the eu accession path. coupled with progress on the rule of law and fundamentals and resolution of past conflicts through dialogue between belgrade and pristina, foreign policy alignment demonstrates that the western balkans want to be a part of our community of values. let me say a couple of remarks on two countries i deal with. montenegro remains qualitatively the frontrunner in the accession process, but it is going through a big crisis. it has to resolve the institutional crisis and it needs a fresh political start. serbia is the one exception in the region, and as a friend of europe and serbia, i want serbia to work with us, to stand with us. and i really hope that serbia will do so and work with us on turning the western balkans into european western balkans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do you want to revive europe's energy policy? i'll tell you what to do. first of all, those counterproductive energy sanctions against russia must be lifted. i don't care how many billionaires you have boating. i don't care how many politicians you ban from entering, but the idea that by impoverishing millions of european families and destroying european industry, you are punishing putin is, i'm sorry, perverse. the second thing to do is to rationalize those ridiculous european green plans. just think about it. on the one hand, you're demanding that electricity production be reduced because oil is bad, gas is bad, nuclear power plants are bad, thermal power plants are bad. on the other hand, you want to increase electricity consumption and to sell people only electric cars from 2030. these are two logically totally opposite concepts, the result of which must be collapse. you know, this energy crisis is not the result of the world running out of energy. it's the result of stupid decisions by stupid politicians.
in writing. the inclusion of repower in the national recovery plans will allow slovakia and other member states to draw even more european money for projects related to increasing the security of their energy supply and the share of renewable energy in energy production. although this will certainly contribute to a lower dependence on fossil fuel imports not only from russia but also in general in the five to ten year perspective, it will not help slovakia and its economy much in the coming year, which will be crucial for the survival of dozens of companies in the industrial, energy and transport sectors. according to experts, europe will lack around 30 billion cubic metres of russian gas next year and only the measures from the repower programme focusing on the development of renewable sources and energy efficiency improvements for 2023 will certainly not be enough to make up for this deficit. the short-term solution that will allow us to survive would be to immediately support the extraction of natural gas, oil and the production of biomethane and, in particular, the materials needed to produce our own solar panels, wind turbines and car batteries.
in writing. although the proposal has its problems, such as giving priority to support for small and micro enterprises, although this time support for medium and large enterprises could be more effective in meeting the objective of reducing dependence on russian energy and accelerating the green transition, i am voting in favour of it. the underlying idea is what i have long supported the shift of resources from digitalisation and the various existing european funds to solutions to the energy crisis, where the likelihood of achieving results is higher than for funds from which the funds are being shifted.
mr. chairman, i've been watching this battle for the package that is supposed to strengthen our financial stability. and it's good that we're following up on dora's orders. i am convinced that the digitisation of the financial sector is a step in the right direction, but it also brings significant risks, especially in the form of cryptocurrencies. i personally believe that they represent a very serious threat to our financial sector and it's good that we're responding to that. our priority is the stability of the financial sector, and especially security. we need to set clear conditions for financial institutions in the provision of their services, but also in ensuring the transparency of their behaviour and the security of the procedures they carry out, because their actions have an impact on everything, even on the stability of the monetary system, of course on small and medium-sized enterprises. it's also important to test banks' resilience and, of course, to prevent hybrid attacks. that's all this package is trying to achieve, and i'm happy to support it for that.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think i can be brief and just say a sincere thank you to all of the honourable members for this evening’s debate. it is absolutely essential that we protect ourselves and our system against attack, and those financial entities in scope will be part of this process. there will be oversight also by eu supervisory authorities of big critical ict providers to the sector. and i think this is really stepping up, taking responsibility. as more and more of us use online financial products and services, we need to have trust in the system and have the confidence to make sure that there is supervision and checks on ict providers and that the financial system is required to check that they are not vulnerable to these attacks, which could be so damaging for the system itself, for individuals and for businesses. so again, my appreciation to the members and indeed to the rapporteurs.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report presented by paulo rangel the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the schengen acquis in the area of freedom, security and justice, in particular by means of the 'european citizens' initiative, which aims to promote the free movement of persons, and to promote the free movement of persons within the union by providing for the free movement of persons within the union, in particular by means of the 'european citizens' initiative'.
mr president and mr vice-president, mr commissioner and mr ambassador, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank my colleague mr rangel for his full support on the journey which will mark tomorrow as a great day for my country. this will also be an emotional day for all of us representing the republic of croatia in the european parliament. 400 million people, one border. and we're going to be a part of it. in the tenth year of croatia's membership of the european union, we are achieving the last two goals, namely entry into the eurozone and entry into schengen. a great debt of gratitude, of course, is owed to our government. without the political will and president andrej plenkovic, this would certainly not have been achieved, and such an extensive evaluation process. ladies and gentlemen, please do not have any doubts about croatia. we've talked about this many times. croatia has also introduced something new: an independent control mechanism. and i believe that will apply to other member countries as well. croatia is thus becoming integrated into the historical, civilizational and cultural space of the european union. thank you so much for your support, from the bottom of my heart.
mr president, dear vice-presidents of the commission, dear colleagues, i’m very happy to welcome another member state to the schengen zone. i wholeheartedly support croatia’s schengen accession. by widening the space for our principles and rules, we all become safer and stronger. as we fully support croatia’s place inside the schengen zone, we also stand behind the schengen accessions for romania and bulgaria. citizens of all countries that have fulfilled the criteria should enjoy the benefits of schengen. schengen is europe. if we weaken schengen, we weaken europe. it is as simple as that. free movement of people is the cornerstone of our values and we must stand up for it as schengen is facing internal threats through temporary border checks and huge external pressures. we must invest together in a better protection of the schengen external border, support frontex and insist that our accession partners in the western balkans work with us by harmonising their respective visa policies. i am very pleased, dear colleagues, that all european citizens in croatia will soon be able to enjoy the full benefits of the free movement of people. let us together make the schengen enlargement a truly lasting achievement.
mr president, i am convinced that croatia belongs to schengen, of course, and it is a bit strange that if it has met the conditions for accession to the schengen acquis already in 2019, then it could be said that we are already three years behind. so i'm very happy that this decision makes us stronger, that we are more united, that it also brings us closer together and makes us a real family of security, of law and of freedom. there's no doubt about that. i would also like to stress that we have certain debts not only to croatia, but of course to romania, bulgaria. we should not forget them either. i am pleased that there will be a strengthening of visa policy, return policy, police cooperation and information exchange. and of course, i'm also glad that next summer my family and i will no longer be living through those crazy lines on the croatian border. i think we could have forgiven them maybe a few years ago.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of croatia fully deserves to be admitted to schengen because it has fulfilled all the conditions, both technical and political. croatia has the longest external land border of the european union and wants to contribute to greater security on it, and the european union is thus demonstrating the functionality and attractiveness of its model. speaking of the future of schengen, we need to strengthen it as one of europe's greatest achievements, and new enlargement is one of the best ways, especially at this critical time when there is war on european soil and one crisis replaces another, but it is important to continue implementing the schengen acquis. this strengthens the trust between the members of the schengen area. the same trust should be placed in countries that have been working for a long time to meet the schengen criteria. i look forward to upgrading our membership of the european union. we are thus gaining the same rights of free movement for croatian citizens that are already enjoyed by 420 million people in 26 countries. that is the equal europe we are fighting for.
vice-president of the commission. – thank you, president, honourable members, let me end this debate as i started it. croatia is ready for schengen, as bulgaria and romania are, and we at the commission will do everything we can to make sure that all three member states can join at once. let me reiterate the importance of the croatian commitment to set up and implement loyally an independent monitoring mechanism. this mechanism is the first of its kind and croatia is the first member state to put it in place, even before we have an agreement on the pact for migration and asylum, which i hope would be sooner rather than later, because the pact requires all member states to set up a monitoring mechanism to uphold fundamental rights, as demanded by our screening proposal regulation. so croatia is doing this before we have to do it collectively as part of european legislation. and last week the croatian government also signed the extension of this mechanism, not a year-by-year, but an 18-month extension automatically renewable until we have this agreement on the pact. these are major – i repeat – major steps taken in this context. also, all recommendations of the mechanism advisory board that is monitoring the implementation of the mechanism have been followed, including – and that’s also a first – the possibility of unannounced visits at the green border. let me finish with a final comment that goes beyond croatia. in these difficult, dark times, in which many of our enemies underestimate the added value of the european union, many attack the european project, many try to discredit our successes, croatia’s accession to schengen and tomorrow in the euro simply shows that the prophets of doom, the cassandras, les déclinologues, will once again be proven wrong. we are strong. we are many. we are united. and we are stronger and able to stand up against our enemies together. that’s also a message of this vote you will be having tomorrow.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear vice-presidents, i’d like only to make two or three comments or remarks on issues that were raised during this debate. first, to say that all of us, we all agree that schengen has two main purposes. one is to defend our external borders – security, safety. the other is to respect all the fundamental rights of european citizens and of the citizens that are non-european and that want to come to europe. and there’s something that is clear that applies to croatia, but also to romania and bulgaria. if we want to monitor, to check, to be sure, that these two dimensions are fully implemented, bringing more security to our borders, but respecting our heritage of fundamental rights, this is much easier to do if these member states are inside schengen than if they are outside. and so, there is no ground and there is no reason to postpone, to delay this accession. and if some member states are thinking that they can do that, they are doing it not for the common good of the european union, but for only internal political reasons and we cannot accept that in these exceptional times. we need to have full freedom of movement within our territory and we have to have secure borders in the places where we have full european citizens. and so i say that i trust that at the very end, all the 27 member states will approve this accession of croatia and also, naturally, of romania and bulgaria.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the accession of croatia to the schengen area raises the question of control of the external borders of the european union with acuteness. the country will then be faced with this dangerous task. this is despite the fact that the migration crisis on the "balkan route" is raging again, with a 205% increase in illegal crossings in just one year. the complaints, which echo the report, follow one another and are similar. we deplore the 'refoulement' of migrants, instead of questioning a foolish model. the eu is also considering the possibility of introducing border controls in slovenia following croatia's accession to the schengen area. a decision that recalls that taken by austria at the slovenian border in 2015. in short, it is urgent to recognise that schengen is an outdated system, at a time when the wave of migration is beginning to pick up again. the dramatic brain drain and emigration that have affected croatia since its accession to the european union should also be highlighted. it is in everyone's interest not to contribute to the loss of vitality in a member state.
the next item is the report by mr laurence farreng on electronic sports and video games (2022/2027 (ini)) (a9-0244/2022).
this discussion is over. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the electronic sports and video games sector is one of the most promising sectors of the european cultural and creative industries. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the union state aid rules. this market is particularly attractive to young people, as two thirds of europeans aged between 6 and 24 say they play video games. considering that the criteria for receiving funding from the creative europe and horizon europe programmes are not always applicable to the specific needs of small and medium-sized video game developers, it is necessary for the union to have a long-term strategy, providing appropriate incentives to young 'made in eu' start-ups and making them competitive on the global market, thus retaining the many european talents contributing to the different technical and artistic stages of video game development. but besides its undisputed economic and employment potential, this sector is also particularly significant from a cultural and social point of view. the new strategy will call on video game and esports developers to promote the same values and skills associated with traditional sport, such as fair play, non-discrimination, social inclusion and gender equality.
in writing. i welcome the proposal for a european parliament resolution on esports and video games (2022/2027 (ini)) from the committee on culture and education. one of the fastest growing and most innovative cultural industries in recent years has been the video game ecosystem. the increase in the number of game developers and studios directly affects numerous consumers across europe. this new cultural product has many opportunities, but also presents many challenges for consumers and regulators alike. the protection of the results of esports is essential, and the potential for illicit influence, illegal gambling and performance enhancement problems should be regulated as soon as possible and the number of abuses reduced. in addition, particular attention should be paid to the importance of the protection of juvenile consumers, who are overrepresented among video game consumers. it is necessary to ensure that the number of cases of abuse, harassment and intimidation occurring online is reduced and that a uniform, transparent and well-monitored legal framework is established. in addition to these conditions, the world of esports and video games offers many opportunities for integration, as it can provide a common platform for consumers of different ages, genders and identities in europe. the inclusion of integration in education also creates opportunities in the areas of lifelong learning, promoting cultural diversity and overcoming language barriers. the report emphasises the importance of exploiting a sector with a high potential for future generations. so i've endorsed the report, and i recommend that you consider the potential for the site.
in writing. i consider the conclusions of the report to be valid and extremely necessary for the gaming and esports industry. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development. in the light of the above, i also believe that it is necessary to distinguish between gaming (i.e. in short: the entertainment or cultural element associated with the use of video games) and e-sports (i.e. in short: competition aimed at achieving specific results in video games), the common feature of which is participation in a specific video game. the report also states that video games are an important ecosystem for the european union, both economically and culturally. i would also like to add that e-sports has many challenges, such as those related to doping. it is important to remember that video games can be dangerous, especially for young people, and we must prevent this. that is why i appreciate the self-regulatory mechanisms of the industry, such as the pegi (pan-european game classification system), which has become a standard recognised throughout europe. for example, pegi online is the online arm of the organization that works to protect children and young people from inappropriate content in online games.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech (under rule 172) which you make from your chair.
mr president, josé barrionuevo, the former spanish minister of the interior, has this week applauded the mistake that was made there over decades in combating terrorism. democracy, pluralism, the values that allow us to live together were at stake. several governments bought eta's war talk. they thus abandoned the pre-political values that were under threat. they committed serious crimes. kidnappings and extrajudicial shootings were heroic acts. uniformed killers, capable of burying in quicklime people they had tortured, were patriots. this double standard corrupts governments, courts and those who continue to applaud, forgive, understand and praise the crimes of the "good guys", of the "ours". they lose all legitimacy to criticize the same attitude in the "others", in the "bad guys". i call on all the european institutions and organisations to ensure that the rule of law is respected more than the severe attention this well-known infamy has never received. and i denounce that this tragic error continues to fuel polarization, fractures the credibility of the system and offends the victims, who deserve truth, justice and reparation.
mr president, we cannot control the rest of our economic problems unless we control inflation. this requires less government, less bureaucracy, less debt and less money to contribute. the commission's plans, however, show the opposite: more regulation, more debt and more eu. these are the very causes of the problems we are facing today. the citizens face a very simple choice as regards their economic future: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are in favour of an ambitious, comprehensive programme with less government, less eu, lower burdens for businesses and citizens, room for innovation and growth in innovative areas, i.e. the free market. as president reagan once said, we have a better life ahead of us. but only if we look ahead.
mr president, i would like to call on the member states of the european union to continue to support ukraine in its efforts to repress the aggressor, to repress the illegal and shameful invasion of russia into its territory. we must continue this support and support ukraine in the supply of arms, in the supply of weapons, because according to the reports we have received, they are already beginning to be lacking in ukraine and it is important that ukraine feels the support of all the member states of the european union. i know it's not going to be all of them, but i think the unprecedented step we've taken to deliver weapons has to continue. i feel like we're just slacking off a little bit, complaining a little bit, complaining about the discomfort, in the face of the situation where hundreds of people are dying every day in ukraine, where property, infrastructure is being destroyed. this discomfort cannot be bought by somehow withdrawing our support for ukraine. i would be very unhappy. i think all of europe is with me.
mr president, the poorest regions of the european union are also the most vulnerable regions in europe. the current crises have shown us that the least developed regions are the european union's greatest weakness. long-term neglected infrastructure, low levels of education, high unemployment significantly reduce the chances of people who often have no choice but to leave their homes and go off to seek a better life. the increase in energy and food prices affects the most vulnerable, the poorest and the people in the least developed regions. despite knowing for many years exactly which regions in europe are the poorest, we have not found the right long-term remedy to reduce the regional disparities in europe. if we do not bring jobs, quality education to these regions, then after all the crises, the europeans in these regions will resort to extreme solutions. now, people in these regions are much more likely to believe hoaxes, misinformation, populism, even fascists. so it's time to really wake up and find the right medicine to support these regions in a more meaningful way.
this item is closed.
the meeting will continue tomorrow. the agenda is published on the european parliament's website.
mr president, i am pleased that the european parliament is acknowledging the existence of institutional racism. these are practices that the institutions in the european union are supposed to protect, educate or develop. excessive violence during police interventions against roma or other minorities, segregation and unlawful placement of roma children in special schools for the mentally disabled, discrimination in employment or health care, lack of access to basic needs such as drinking water or sanitation. these are just some of the cases that reflect the reality of today's world, which is often based on discrimination on the basis of ethnic or racial background. we must realise that all these practices not only undermine the dignity of the people they are aimed at, but also undermine all our efforts towards prosperity and well-being, as well as cohesion and security. we live in challenging times. but if we are to rise to these challenges and move forward, racism in our societies simply must not be tolerated under any circumstances, in the interests of all of us.
madam president, while the borrowing strategy has been conducted without major difficulties, new european debt also brings many hazards into the future which the report overlooks: higher inflation, increased indebtedness of member states and resistance of member states to fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. i think it is a mistake that the commission does not set fiscal consolidation as the main condition for drawing the recovery funds. borrowing strategy is the easier side of the coin. the harder one is the not-borrowing strategy, the growth strategy that has been missing so far, fiscal consolidation and structural reforms in member states. without them nextgenerationeu risks to be a missed opportunity that we cannot afford.
the next item is the report by mr michal šimečka, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the resilience of critical entities (com2020) 0829 - c9-0421/2020 - 2020/0365 (cod)) (a9-0289/2021).
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, madam commissioner, it is quite an honour for me to stand here and present to you the result of almost two years of legislative work, which was grounded in extensive debates and consultations with stakeholders, the member states and the european institutions. the initial promise was to deliver on a europe that protects, which in practice also means strengthening the resilience of the critical systems underpinning our way of life in our internal market. and today, with the cer directive, the eu is in a position to deliver on that promise. before we vote, let me just give a brief overview of what has transpired in europe while we have been working on this file, which also provides the strongest arguments for why the european union needs a new piece of legislation to better protect its critical entities. right before the commission rolled out its draft, the covid pandemic broke out, infecting and killing millions of europeans and disrupting our healthcare, our economy and our societies. later, while we were negotiating this law, or this directive, russia launched its brutal attack, its brutal aggression against ukraine. and since then, the european union has been facing an unprecedented increase in sabotage operations on its critical infrastructure – from the energy sector to transport services – and experiencing an increasing number of hybrid attacks on its public institutions. and in the meantime, the climate crisis has been burning and flooding our continent from greece to portugal, sweden to italy. and all of these crises, all of these events have also served as a sort of compass for the co-legislators as they were finetuning this directive. now more than ever, we must prove to our citizens that the european union protects their lives, protects their jobs, their companies, the essential services that affect the daily lives of our citizens and, eventually, the entire european union. therefore, our ambition with this directive is to strengthen the ability of critical entities to cope with these risks to their operations, while improving the functioning of the internal market in these essential services. there are 11 crucial sectors covered, and this directive addresses the various measures and requirements so that its implementation will adequately respond to both natural catastrophes and man-made attacks. i trust that our joint compass throughout this process has brought solid rules and established the cooperation, coordination and information flows among the member states, the entities and the european commission that will strengthen preparedness for these incidents, the response to these incidents and, eventually, their evaluations. because resilience is not just about preventing a risk – a disaster can always occur; the crucial thing is how we cope with it and how we, as the european union, bounce back from it. moreover, this is reflected in the legislation. there are entities which have a pan-european dimension because they operate simultaneously in several member states, and a risk to their operations is therefore a risk for the single market as a whole. and this directive puts a special focus on these entities and on the cross-border cooperation of these entities, which are of particular european significance. finally, i would like to say that i’m delighted – and this is thanks to you, madam commissioner, and thanks to my colleagues, our shadow rapporteurs, our advisers in the european parliament and our counterparts in the council – that our mutual work has resulted in what i believe is the best possible legislation. it is a big step for the european union, and i really hope that this parliament will broadly support it by adopting our interinstitutional agreement later today.
mr president, commissioner, the resilience of europe's critical infrastructure needs to be strengthened in terms of both cybersecurity and the physical environment. this legislation, which will now be adopted, together with the is2 directive, is an important step towards strengthening common european security. we have seen in recent months the devastation russia is wreaking in ukraine by destroying critical infrastructure and driving people into a corner. in the european union we have seen the nord stream 2 explosions and the sabotage of the german railway network. they show the importance of strengthening joint preparedness and joint response and also of intensifying cooperation with nato, as the commission proposed in october. it is a good step that in addition to energy and transport infrastructure, the legislation now to be adopted includes a total of eleven very critical sectors, including digital infrastructure, banking, drinking water, health, food. we know that these are all very critical activities for society and for the lives of citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can rarely agree on something that is really so important and so necessary. the directive to adapt attacks to our changing critical infrastructure system, just as society is changing, is really a moment of collective congratulations. we must also congratulate the french presidency on this last-minute agreement. we can't afford these attacks. for example, less than a month ago in spain, through the punto neutro judicial, a system managed by the general council of the judiciary that connects the networks of different public administrations, the attackers accessed millions of sensitive data: identity cards, income statements, bank accounts, addresses, working lives, business relationships of each and every citizen who appeared in these connected databases, politicians, businessmen, publicly relevant figures. they took everything: the complete databases of the services of the tax agency, social security, the public employment service, the general directorate of police, foreign affairs or the general directorate of traffic. these and other types of critical infrastructure are the main vulnerabilities in the hybrid wars of the present - the commissioner said today - and of the future. in ukraine, the electricity, the communications are attacked. data hijacking and energy attack can lead to disaster for our societies. we are reacting. we're happy for that. but we have to be quick and we have to make this kind of vulnerability visible to our societies. today is our lucky day.
mr president, i welcome this directive i was calling for since the beginning of my mandate. as putin continues to wage his brutal and aggressive war against the people of ukraine, he’s also continuing in his attempts to weaken and divide our democracies. disinformation, cyber-attacks, espionage, strategic corruption of businesses and political cycles. that’s why it is crucial that we seek attacks on critical infrastructure in this broader context and develop necessary tools. for this reason, i welcome the protection of critical infrastructures directive and the extension of the scope to 11 sectors, in order to better reflect the scale of the threat. however, we can never adequately protect ourselves if we allow malign regimes to invest in our critical infrastructure. the case of nord stream 2 must be a lesson not only for our dealings with russia, but also when it comes to chinese communist party and others. such regimes must never again be allowed to use our critical infrastructure to undermine our resilience.
mr president, commissioner johansson, this parliament welcomes this revision of the directive on the reinforcement of critical infrastructure and critical entities, which is part of the reinforcement of the security of europeans against hybrid attacks, dramatically brought to light by putin's war against ukraine, and which extends the security of europeans beyond energy and transport to other sectors affected, such as banking, such as digital infrastructures and, of course, such as food supply and, above all, health and public health data. but i would like to make one further comment: now that this european parliament is turning 70, which is the age at which one normally retires or accedes to retirement, this parliament has every reason to feel younger than ever and it is therefore important to modernise the language as well. when we talk about resilience, about critical entities, are we telling europeans clearly what this is about? my answer is no. we can be much more graphic and effective if we tell them that we are strengthening their security against sabotage and against attacks on people's privacy and privacy, and that we are better protecting their fundamental rights in the world in which we live.
member of the commission. – thank you very much for this important debate. it clearly showed that we all agree on the importance of better protecting critical entities and the importance of this legislation that you will vote on today. i will again reiterate my special thanks to the rapporteur, mr šimečka, and the shadows, but also, of course, to the french presidency and the council, which managed to reach a swift agreement on this important legislation. we have to take responsibility together as a union, and the best action we can take right now is to make sure that we are ready for what is to come. the directive will soon enter into force. it’s now up to the member states to use it to full effect ahead of time, and to carry out the stress tests to bolster our preparedness and response to protect our infrastructure and our people.
rapporteur. – mr president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, thank you so much for the discussion and thank you for the support. it is quite rare that there is such a broad consensus in this parliament from the left to the right. and not just a consensus and an agreement on this text that is going to be voted on later on, but also consensus and an agreement on the kind of threats that we face and on the kind of actions that we need to take. i note that a lot of you, colleagues, have approved of the expansion of the sectors that will be covered in this directive to 11. i am also happy that there’s strong agreement on that. i should also mention, highlight, that the philosophy of this directive is somewhat different from the last one, and i appreciate that. i think this is also where there is a consensus: that we’re moving from just protecting particular pieces of critical infrastructure – assets and buildings and whatnot – to a philosophy where we’re focusing on the resilience of those essential services. and i think this reflects this new and dangerous world that we’re entering where the risks can't all be eliminated. there will be threats, there will be incidents. and we need to be clear with our citizens that not with this directive, not with anything we can do, can we eliminate all the risks falling from natural catastrophes to war to hybrid sabotage attacks. what we can do, though, is to minimise those risks and to make sure that when incidents happen, we are prepared and our entities, be they public or private, are able to bounce back and carry on with the services that are essential for our societies and for our single market. and this is what this directive does. this is what it’s for. and with its approval and with its implementation, the european union, its citizens, its single market will be all the more secure. so let me again say thanks so much to the commission, to the french presidency, to all my colleagues from the political groups. and i would just reiterate the call of the commissioner for member states to implement this as swiftly as possible.
in writing. all eu countries should take effective measures to ensure a more representative representation of women not only on the supervisory boards of different companies but also at all tables where important measures are taken. however, the situation varies considerably from one country to another, with some countries, such as slovakia, where women represent only 25% of such decision-making bodies, still having a long way to go. if we take into account that up to 40% of managers should be women by 2026, taking into account, of course, the necessary qualifications and experience, the path for countries like slovakia will not only be long, but also difficult. in practice, this also means that if equally qualified candidates apply for the post, then the representative of the less represented sex must be given priority. those companies that fail to meet the criteria prescribed in the directive, such as the transparency of the selection process, will have to face sanctions.
in writing. women face many artificial barriers in life that men do not have to face, and it is right to remove these barriers. but setting quotas for private firms is not about breaking down barriers, it's about setting outcomes. it's like if the nhl, instead of having the last team in the draft with the best chance of getting the first pick, had a rule that the last team in the draft automatically wins every other game. the real solution should be to remove barriers, for example by making it easier to combine work with childcare.
mr president, europe is running out of steam. the west is mired in recession, while the brics countries are gaining strength and preparing for gradual expansion. i'll be honest, i don't agree with china being labeled as a threat to europe. yes, as a competitor, yes, but as a threat? please, how many wars in the world did china start? or how many countries have china invaded? just for comparison, in the 246 years of its existence, the united states of america has been at war with someone for 231 years, that's 94% of the time. and they're labeled peacemakers, and china is labeled by some as a threat. i don't like this policy where you label everyone outside the western bubble as non-democratic states, as totalitarian or even as threats or enemies. if europe is to prosper, it must work with the east.
madam president, after 70 years of the european union's imperfect foreign policy, we have come to the conclusion we have come to, namely that there is a war in europe, there is a crisis, a food crisis, an energy crisis. and a crisis that may lead europe to a greater conflict than it is. i agree with what mr. borrell said. such a course of action should be avoided in relation to china, the situation should not be exacerbated, china should be seen as a partner, a trading partner and negotiated with them on the principle of 'equal to equal'. and as far as some of the strong or eager meps here who think that europe is about the centre of the universe and that we can dictate to somebody how to act in their own country, what to do, what to work, i would probably compare the position of the european union and china to a situation where an elephant, an elephant and an ant, an elephant and an ant are walking on a bridge and the ant says: "but we're going to die!" we simply cannot afford to act in a way that would get rid of another global trading partner that has never really attacked anyone, as we... (chairman interrupts speaker)... that's all i have to say.
madam president, we spend a lot of time discussing the rule of law standards for new members, but once they are in it seems that they can ignore those same standards, because they become members of the club and it’s the club of member states. it’s mostly a system of cover-ups. president metsola went to barcelona over the weekend. i hope she found good weather there in my beloved hometown, a city where i have not been able to set foot in the last five years. because if i did, i would suffer an arbitrary arrest. so what’s the credibility about rule of law? we only look at it for the candidates or for some of the members, depending on their power. in any case, i do hope that ms metsola does not help spain in their political persecution. i’m happy that she denied that she was planning to strike four members of this parliament of our rights as representatives of more than two million people that elected us to this parliament.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, eu enlargement has been one of the most successful policies of the union. it has transformed the continent, established democracies, modernised economies, and united us in diversity. as we face russia’s attack against ukraine, the eu must focus on its foundations. european enlargement must be based on shared goals and principles, respect for the fundamental rights of individuals and the rule of law for all. european values have real political meaning. all of us inside the european union, must once again become serious about enlargement. our commitment to a european future for ukraine and moldova must transform our internal discussion about a wider europe. we must do all it takes to help ukraine win its just war, and even more importantly, to win a lasting and prosperous peace based on european policies and institutions. we must equally deliver on our long-term commitment to the western balkans. we expect our partners in the region to stand with us, not to bypass us. we expect true reforms, not lip service paid to europe. but this is also our task. as russia continues to pursue its hybrid warfare across the western balkans, we, as europeans, must be politically clear. we will do what it takes to make europe prevail in this region, to make democracy trump authoritarianism, to bring a european way of life to all people of the western balkans. it’s time to believe that enlargement can become one of our greatest achievements again, dear colleagues.
mr. chairman, we hear a great deal of determination to agree on asylum legislation. i expect this agreement to reflect reality and put safety first. security, responsibility and solidarity is an approach that is clearly demonstrated in aid to ukraine. we are helping ukraine to defend itself against the aggressor, and therefore we put security and peace first and we are also helping ukrainian refugees in solidarity. we don't want people running away from their homes and dying at sea. nobody wants that. but we see the obvious reasons. dictators like bashar al-assad and others in the middle east and africa don't mind at all that their citizens have to flee violence and hunger. putin and lukashenko are using this as a tool in their fight against eu unity. and that's why we need to address this situation now, now, and with the tools at our disposal, and we can't wait. agreements with third countries, the end of smuggling mafias and, above all, the protection of the external borders against illegal migration must be our priority, a task for the member states and the european commission. it is not possible to criticise the czech republic for introducing increased controls at its borders and for detaining and returning refugees from third countries. if the external borders are not protected 100%, if refugees are not detained in registration centres immediately after entering the eu, we will have to guard this external border. frontex is a tool to help. and i want to finish by thanking all of you who are doing your part, the thousands of police officers and volunteers who are helping people who are fleeing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new right-wing government of giorgia meloni has been in office in italy for a month and instead of dealing with the real problems of the country, it has already attacked the humanitarian ships geo barents, humanity and ocean viking, a shameful action whose only aim is to send a message to the electorate on the skin of human beings. all of this is counterproductive. what is needed now is a solution shared at european level. the mediterranean action plan is an important proposal, but more must be done to coordinate search and rescue operations. the first country of arrival criterion must be abolished and solidarity and responsibility of the member states must be strengthened, not just returns. the italian colleague, mr bartolo, is doing a great deal of work in this respect, also on behalf of our political group. migration is a global phenomenon and must be addressed as such. the countries of the union will only achieve results if they are able to cooperate, with shared solutions, starting with those who are most prepared to take them forward. we must move forward together.
mr president, the european union has faced a number of challenges in recent years, with increased migration being one of the most significant. the current system is not working, but for years member states have been unable to agree on how to reform migration and asylum policies. some countries carry a huge burden, and russian aggression has shown that a refugee rush can affect virtually any eu country in a short time. my country is also hosting hundreds of thousands of ukrainian refugees. what was previously unimaginable for eastern european countries, millions of refugees on their territories, became a reality overnight. i too voted for the temporary measures in favour of italy and greece last term, in the hope that a balanced solution for the whole of the union would be found. but that has not really happened until now. our aim should be to move away from temporary solutions and to establish a predictable system that makes it possible to manage migration. protect the schengen area, of course, but also increase diplomatic efforts and conclude readmission agreements, establish hotspots outside our territory. what we're experiencing today may be nothing compared to the movement of hundreds of millions of climate refugees in the middle of this century. these people are already born and will have to leave their homes because of extreme weather, natural disasters. already, their numbers are comparable to the number of refugees fleeing wars. the migration waves will hit the entire planet. our only chance is to realize this as soon as possible and use the time to make a real preparation. i hope the council understands that. and i also hope that the deal will be done as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the debate on asylum, we rarely talk about what it's really about: people who have experienced terrible things, people fleeing war, people fleeing persecution, people dying on the way to safety. and not only is this mostly missing from the debate, but for reasons of populism, these people are then also presented as a threat, are labeled as illegal, even though the human right is clear: every person has the right to apply for asylum. everyone has the right to be judged according to the rule of law. as european legislators, we have a responsibility to create a framework of rules in which human rights are respected and enforced. and this must not be allowed to fail in the name of national petty-bourgeoisism; we must not allow this to fail by inciting violence against the weakest. we can stop the deaths in the mediterranean, we can stop the pushbacks at the external borders, we can get people out of the camps. let us ensure that we, as the european union, fulfil our obligations through common european solutions, solidarity and humanity. we are sending a message to the council: do not boycott this!
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is noted that the commission is working hard to move forward with a european solution for asylum and migration. the fact that we have not progressed in the negotiations since the refugee crisis in 2015 is an understatement for the member states. we need to ensure a dignified and humane reception for people seeking asylum in europe. not everyone who seeks asylum and comes to europe has the right to asylum, but we still have an obligation to organise an orderly reception, to ensure a reception in solidarity between member states, and to process asylum applications in accordance with the geneva convention. we know that women and children on the run are particularly vulnerable when they are in the clutches of smugglers and can also be victims of human trafficking. the same is true of the perilous journeys across the mediterranean. so we need to agree in the eu on a common migration policy to prevent this from happening. it's time now.
mr president, commissioner, commissioner, we have been debating this question of a single european union solution to the problem of migration for seven years. i'm skeptical, and i have reason to be. we have spoken here of united europe, solidarity, humanity, rights, but we have a service blocker which is the council. and i'm giving an example to be well understood. if my country has been held at the gates of the schengen area for 11 years, what unity, what solidarity are we talking about? if we have a regulation voted by parliament, voted by the commission and it is not applied because the blocker is the council. because one or two member states, for petty national interests, invoke various reasons unrelated to the regulation. how can i believe that we will have a pact on migration agreed by all member states? and yes, i do believe that my country, my citizens, have accumulated frustration, resentment, economic loss. yes, the european union is growing in skepticism. and that's why i'm asking the council to make romania part of schengen.
mr president, how much cynicism and, above all, how much hypocrisy there is in this house. when i left, in 2019, i thought that something had improved, and three years later we are still the same or maybe worse. there is no european landing protocol, no legal and safe routes, the criminalisation of ngos continues and, above all, the first port of landing criterion has not been abolished. that's totally immoral. i was lucky enough to be on a rescue boat. and i say lucky, because i've seen the tragedy on the front lines. i have seen how the libyan coastguard deterred the ship open arms when we were wandering for ten days, until the spanish state gave permission to enter the port of barcelona after being denied in the ports of malta and in the ports of italy, with a populist government in italy, and even more populist is the one now. so these speeches that these people on the far right have are immoral and we have to say it like that, commissioner. we cannot allow the commission and the council to fail in this new attempt and to continue to criminalize those who save lives, a job that is worthy and deserves our respect.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the migration crisis is not to be treated, but prevented. hungary's southern border is practically under siege by migration. this year alone, authorities have prevented some 250,000 illegal border crossings. illegal immigrants and human traffickers often violently attack border guards. since 2015, hungary has spent 650 billion forints on the protection of the southern border. the european union provided only 2 percent of this. in the meantime, he supports ngos that facilitate illegal migration by sea or land. in order to prevent migrants from being stranded at the serbian-hungarian border, austria and hungary have agreed further measures with serbia to curb illegal migration to the eu along the western balkans route, as the eu's asylum system appears to have failed.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister bek, honourable members of this house, together with vice-president schinas i have been listening to this long and intense debate. of course, there’s been a lot of emotions, and that is very understandable because we see men, women, children in very dangerous situations, also losing their lives in the mediterranean or in a sealed lorry along the western balkan routes. so it’s understandable that we are emotional, because saving life is always our first responsibility. there’s also been a lot of focus on the problems and challenges that we have. i’m dealing with this on a daily basis. we have huge challenges. we have seen an increase of irregular arrivals along both the western balkan routes and the central med route. we have seen also that in nationalities this increase is not caused by more people that are fleeing prosecutions or in need of international protection. we see an increase of nationalities that are probably not in need of international protection. we have seen an increase along the western balkan routes of pakistanis, cubans, indians, turks. we have seen an increase on the west med route of bangladeshis, tunisians, egyptians. of course this needs to be addressed. that’s why i was in bangladesh, in pakistan last week, to discuss with them the swift return of those not eligible to stay, but also legal pathways and help for the returnees. that’s why we are presenting and launched a new anti-smuggling partnership with all the western balkan partners. that’s why we presented last monday a 20—point action plan to counter the western balkan route. that’s why we will have an extraordinary council on friday to discuss this. so the challenges are huge, and of course irregular arrivals has to be addressed. this is not a proper way to come to the european union. but i would like to use this opportunity to talk about some other issues, actually, that some of you, many of you, have been calling for – a european solution on asylum and migration. we are so strong when we work together. when we are united and tackle challenges together we can do a lot. let me just remind you that we managed the situation where lukashenko tried to sell tickets, instrumentalising migrants into the european union. we managed that together and, together with third countries, we have managed to decrease the irregular arrivals through the western mediterranean route and atlantic route, thanks to good cooperation also with our african partners. we managed last year to give humanitarian admission for 35 000 afghans fleeing the situation in afghanistan. we are managing right now a situation with more than 4 million ukrainian refugees by activating the temporary protection directive. we can do so much more when we work together. i heard somebody call that it’s time to stop debating and start working. the good news is that work is ongoing. the negotiations on the new pact on migration and asylum that we presented two years ago is really taking big steps forward. there is a very good momentum in the council. thanks to the czech presidency, but also thanks to the previous french presidency, we are working intensively together with the member states and are reaching new steps almost while we are speaking. also here in parliament, good progress has been made on all the files and parliament and council has agreed on a roadmap, and i think this is a unique situation. there is a real good opportunity that we can make the decision on the whole pact on migration and asylum during this mandate. but time is running so we have to start the real negotiations and trilogues now to be able to finalise all the files during this mandate, to show everybody that migration is not a threat. migration is something that we need, but we need to manage migration and we need to welcome people on legal ways, but we need to prevent irregular arrivals and the risk of people’s lives.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, vice-president skinner, commissioner johansson, honourable members, i wish to thank you for this very timely and important debate today. these discussions are not easy, but they contribute to finding appropriate responses to the current challenges. there is no doubt that the situation in the mediterranean and at our external land borders must be addressed in an effective and timely manner, in accordance with european and international law. and we need to avoid at all costs loss of lives. as i have already stressed, both improved cooperation with third countries and progress on the negotiations on the migration and asylum pact remain the only sustainable way to achieve a better and more robust migration and asylum system that will serve all member states well. the presidency and the council remain committed to work intensively with our partners, both to address urgent short term measures, as well as to advance to work on a systemic solution in line with the roadmap on migration and asylum that combines responsibility and solidarity, as a number of you have recalled here today. this requires a positive political environment, which will allow our institutions to move forward together.
that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
madam president, i appreciate the commission's efforts to come up with proposals to reduce the high energy prices that many businesses and households cannot afford. the proposals are going in the right direction, but today they're not enough. it should be noted that the reason for the high prices today is mainly the lack of supply, and this is related to the shutdown of several stable nuclear sources, whether in france or in germany, which we cannot compensate with photovoltaics or wind turbines. the commission's proposal for a price ceiling of eur 275/mwh for monthly contracts is a compromise which unfortunately will not have the desired effect. and that, the price of gas doesn't go down enough and with it the price of electricity. as long as the union is dominated by lng imports, the price of lng has no chance and cannot even drop significantly, because lng tankers will find customers in asia and europe will run out of gas. i fear that a significant reduction in the price of gas will only occur if domestic production is strengthened and pipeline gas supplies, especially from russia, are increased. but given the situation today, we cannot imagine that, and that is why we need direct compensation now, direct support at least for vulnerable households and businesses.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, let me first of all sincerely thank you once again for your support for ukraine, for parliament’s solidarity and for the urgency and priority that parliament has given to this file. i would also like to thank you for your interventions and comments, to which i have listened very carefully. i would like to reply just to a couple of questions which require a very clear answer. one member has asked whether we really want to send all this money to ukraine. our clear answer is ‘yes’. because, as many of you have said today, it’s about solidarity, it’s about humanity and about standing on the right side of history. i also heard questions as to whether we know where all this money goes. again, i can reply with a clear ‘yes’. this money goes to the budget for immediate needs – pensions, salary, rebuilding critical infrastructure, which we have seen destroyed by russian bombs, and actually it’s being destroyed right now while we are discussing it. ukrainians, they are left without water, electricity, heating, hospitals. finally, some of you have seen a risk and point to corruption and the need to scrutinise well the money spent. so let me stress again that we are ready to work with ukraine on a memorandum of understanding to include areas for conditions to strengthen the rule of law and fight against corruption. we aim to sign this memorandum of understanding as soon as we get approval for our proposal by the european parliament and council. dear members of the parliament, once again thank you. thank you for the overwhelming majority of members who supported our proposal in today’s debate. it’s vital for our ukrainian friends that the entire package goes through quickly, and we will of course keep this house duly informed about future developments. slava ukraini!
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, i wish to thank you for this very useful debate today. i have listened with interest to your arguments, and let me confess that in the council we have heard several of the technical questions you presented as regards the legislative proposals on the table. but as many of you made clear in your interventions, what is at stake is far greater than changes in the way the union will borrow for ukraine from now on, or then how we guarantee the borrowing. it is about humanity, as mr tarczyński said. i said earlier in my intervention that i trust this parliament is ready to rise to the historic challenge before us. the presidency will strive to ensure that the council will also live up to its responsibilities. if you give a positive vote on the package tomorrow, we will do our utmost to green—light the legislative package at the ecofin council of 6 december. in this way, the legislation would apply as of 9 december, allowing to make the first disbursement to ukraine at the beginning of january. thank you very much once again for your attention.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday 24 november 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on the global biodiversity framework after 2020 and the un convention on biological diversity cop15 (2022/2959 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, thank you very much for this rich debate and for your comments and interventions, of which i took good note, and thank you very much for your great support. let me come back just to a couple of points that some of you raised. first of all, of course, resource mobilisation. yes, this will be a key point in the negotiations. the package must cover the means of implementation in the broad sense. we need to scale up financing from all sources, and in particular domestic finances. we also need to remove, redirect or repurpose environmentally harmful subsidies and incentives, and we need to increase positive incentives and align all financial flows with biodiversity objectives. we want clear and operational provisions on mobilising resources from all sources. without this, the framework would be a dead letter. because i have also heard some of you drawing parallels to what have happened in sharm el—sheikh, let me also mention that without any significant increase in official development assistance, it will be very difficult, if not impossible, to strike an ambitious deal. combined efforts by eu member states, as well as from a wider range of donors, will be necessary to achieve full impact. at cop11, the parties agreed on doubling biodiversity—related international financial resource flows to developing countries. the eu has delivered on this commitment, and the commission will double again its financing over the period 2021—2027. france and germany also made significant pledges. we are pushing other donors to come up with similar increases. we will need a very practical and pragmatic conversation if we want to identify solutions that can work for all. the eu and member states certainly want to avoid to agree on a pledge that at the end of the day cannot be delivered. we should avoid a situation, as for climate, where perceived lack of financing becomes a political stumbling block for full implementation. last, ms paulus, let me say that based on assessment by the iucn, we have a clear list of species that are at risk of extinction. we need urgent action by 2030 to save these species. however, the vast majority of species is unknown to us, and yet the ipps global assessment in 2019 estimated that one million species is at risk of extinction. the 2050 goal should be to save all the species, bringing the rate of extinction back to the natural background level. dear colleagues, members of the parliament, let me use very clear words. our biodiversity life on earth is in danger. we are part of that biodiversity. we too are in danger. so we must stop biodiversity loss and restore nature. therefore, our key priority is a successful cop. the negotiations in montreal are our chance to adopt a framework that credibly addresses biodiversity crisis.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, i would like to thank all members for their interventions. they confirm the strong and continued interest of this assembly in the protection of biodiversity and the desire for the eu to play a leading role at the un biodiversity conference. the council adopted its conclusions on 24 october. we are now working on fine-tuning our positions on the issues on the agenda of the conference, with the aim to provide the negotiators with a solid, but at the same time flexible mandate. please allow me to conclude by reaffirming the presidency’s commitment to do its utmost to defend the eu’s ambitions in canada to adopt an ambitious, comprehensive and transformative post-2020 global biodiversity framework that includes the long-term 2050 goals, 2030 intermediate outcomes and action-oriented 2030 targets, to effectively and simultaneously address the direct and indirect drivers of biodiversity loss.
the debate is over. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. i believe that the 15th un conference on biodiversity will be a paradigm-shifting conference. world leaders will come together to agree on the global protection of our biodiversity. the ep called for an ambitious, comprehensive and transformative post-2020 global biodiversity framework, including long-term 2050 targets, intermediate outcomes and action-oriented 2030 targets, that effectively and simultaneously addresses both direct and indirect drivers of biodiversity decline. this overall framework needs to be funded. that is why i believe it is absolutely necessary and i support the allocation of 10% of european funds to nature conservation. i support the creation of a coalition of stakeholders, both from the private and public sectors, to achieve the global framework for biodiversity post-2020. in this regard, i underline the usefulness of the 'solution agenda' developed under the paris agreement for developing a positive agenda for all stakeholders with an interest in the united nations framework convention on climate change and call for the inclusion of similar actions in the post-2020 biodiversity framework.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer to the committee on the legal protection of rainbow families exercising their right to free movement, in particular the case of little sara, presented by marc angel, terry reintke, pierre karleskind, malin björk, maria walsh, fabio massimo castaldo, matjaž nemec, olivier chastel, diana and riba giner, gabriele bischoff, tilly metz, irène tolleret, dietmar köster, frances fitzgerald, karen melchior, sophia in vteld, marianne vind, karima delli, hilde hamoutmans, magdalena adadkawicz, sylwia spurek, francisco guerreiro, karin karlsbroek, sandro go, sandro malte, rené gallée, robert biasi, max rosi, giuliano auric, guspa auric, maria matika, josé manuel o'sullivan, maria maria maria maria maria maria, maria maria maria maria maria maria maria maria, maria maria maria maria maria maria maria maria, maria maria maria maria maria maria maria, maria maria maria maria maria, maria maria maria, maria maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, the blessed and the virgin of whom you are also referred to, and whose names are not included in the following paragraphs:
mr president, this is a very strange resolution, which asks for what has long been legally possible. all the instruments we are asking for are already in the hands of the member states, including the killing of problematic wolves, bears and lynx, where this is really the last and only option. it should be made clear that the initiative was taken by the agri committee, but the original intention was to open up the habitats directive, to reduce the protection of wolves, bears and lynx and to allow for their extensive hunting. i have no understanding for such ambition, mainly because of the enormous importance of these species for ecosystems and biodiversity, as well as for the great support of the public. i am therefore pleased that we have a negotiated text which i fully support, and i also urge all of you to stop or close this chapter, to address the really important things, such as finding compatibility with this planet, which will not be possible without coexistence with wild unregulated nature.
madam president, it is certainly good that we are setting targets for digitisation. unfortunately, we don't have a very good selection. they don't measure results for the citizen. for example, the objective of making key public services available online. it is not enough that the service is available online, because the online service can be designed in such a way that citizens lose more time than if they visited the office on foot. for those who do not believe, read about how the online registration service for the covid vaccine worked in slovakia, my member state. instead, targets would be more appropriate, such as how much time has been saved, how much costs have been reduced or how much labour productivity has been increased by digitalisation. such objectives are often missing from the design, and i think that's a shame. i'm sure you will.
madam president, poverty, fear, insecurity, these are also the realities of millions of young people in europe. these are difficult times. the covid-19 pandemic, as well as the war, has brought anxiety, fear, and a sense of isolation. in europe, but also in slovakia, in my country, there is a growing number of young people who have extremist views, they are faced with open aggression, we even recently saw a young man murdered in slovakia out of hatred. young people today need our support and understanding all the more. we need to reassure young ones that their views and opinions are very important to us. young europeans must feel our support. we must not underestimate the future of young europeans, because they will one day be the ones who decide what europe will be.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. stronger, connected, resilient, prosperous: these are the words of the commission's new website on 'rural areas', which was launched on friday. i am pleased that the commission has recognised these challenges. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rural areas are not left to the detriment of the environment. there can be no class societies here. the rural areas must be supported, they must be able to keep pace with the climate change, social and economic challenges. the most important issues need to be addressed. it is about transport planning, mobility, schooling, education, demography, welfare, broadband, social cohesion and civic engagement. and that is why i thank mrs carvalhais for the very good report - and in particular for the fact that the subject of predators has been raised. this is also an important part of the rural areas being protected and the rural areas being able to be managed. this is part of the acceptance and part of living in rural areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support this report because it is moving in the right direction. in the european union, for every farmer under 40, there are three over 65. so the village is dying. between 2003 and 2016, the number of farms decreased by 32%. but when the village is well connected and infrastructure is in place and when people can live well from farming or other work, then life in the village is very nice, and housing is much cheaper, which is extremely important for families and demographics. we must therefore be more decisive and effective in adopting policies that strengthen rural development and domestic agricultural production, rather than encouraging the import of inferior food of questionable origin and lining the pockets of retailers and large corporations. without a prosperous village, there is no prosperous city. there is no healthy, home-cooked food, no thriving country.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the importance of rural areas, whether we are talking about food security, combating climate change or tourism. however, european policies have failed to develop these areas, so that today only 11% of farms in the european union are run by farmers under 40. investments in broadband internet, water services, road connectivity, healthcare and education are indispensable. commissioner, we must be aware that only when the gap between urban and rural areas is closed will we be able to really talk about reversing demographic trends. the synergy of the funds and the strengthening of the leader programme must be matched by the reduction of red tape in the process of accessing european funds. the war in ukraine has shown us once again the importance of preserving the ability of rural areas to provide quality and affordable food. that is why i want to stress the need for the european commission's policies to be anchored in the new geopolitical realities.
madam president, what is the value of a culture? the rural areas of the european union cover more than 80% of the territory but are home to only one third of its inhabitants. thousands of peoples with diverse traditions and diverse ways of life are at risk of disappearing through depopulation. the european institutions must ensure its survival. the european union's cohesion policy must promote the development of these areas. the new mobility plans must put an end to the isolation of our towns, which is sometimes caused by a lack of infrastructure. we must ensure connectivity that makes teleworking possible and we must work to implement the rural pact. but we can also use the potential of cohesion policy to fix population on the territory. we can offer incentives to people who choose to live in the rural world; promote sustainable tourism that shows their ways of life; value a sustainable way of life that is respectful of our planet. we cannot allow centuries-old traditions of our rural peoples across europe, which are at risk of depopulation, to be lost because of the inaction of the institutions. we have to get involved. we need involvement at all levels. and the european union must lead this engagement, because the value of a culture is incalculable.
madam president, the fear of wolves or bears belongs to fairy tales like the one about little red riding hood or to lands where the sand poured and the water flowed. not until the 21st century. the killing of animals has brought many species in europe to the brink of extinction. bears, wolves, lynx, bison, beavers and many more. our approach to nature was conquering. to spoil, to rob, to kill. this approach has brought us to the brink of mass extinction. will we be among them? the countryside needs progress, quality education, healthcare, accessible transport connections, high-speed internet, but not the subjugation of nature. i believe that in the third millennium, we don't need to kill predators again. we don't have to prove ourselves superior and subjugate other life forms. if we want to survive, we must learn to live together, both among humans and with other life forms, such as wolves and bears. so that our children don't learn about nature from fairy tales.
madam president, i was not pleased with the report on the vision for the union's rural areas by 2040. it does not propose appropriate solutions, and in particular does not have properly identified the causes of rural backwardness. the aim of placing young people in unproductive jobs in rural areas cannot be part of the strategy. why do we want to sacrifice them? the oecd study gives us some clear recommendations. it is not enough to redistribute money to poor regions, structural changes are needed. inefficient grants are holding back innovation and productivity growth. however, productivity differences are the main reason for the backlog. we should give the regions autonomy in local taxation and promote fiscal decentralisation. these solutions are missing from the report, and i think we will not make progress without them.
madam president, i'm afraid we're at it again. the need to reduce wolf protection has been mentioned in rural development plans. i am told that we are to be consistent with parliament's previous rather unfortunate position. at the standing committee for the berne convention on 2 december 2022, all 27 member states unanimously rejected switzerland's request to reduce the protection of the wolf, thus clearly declaring the need for its further strict protection in the european area. so if we're going to be consistent, let's start by being consistent with our own countries' position. demonizing the wolf and asking for non-systemic and obviously dysfunctional steps to hunt it will not help the countryside. nature is not the enemy of the countryside, but its ally in the fight against climate change and the decline of species wealth. so let's start working with her, please. it is also the instrument with the greatest potential for the development of underdeveloped and declining rural areas.
only thanks to the personal resentment and hatred of richard sulík, who until recently was a coalition partner and minister in the clearly pro-european, pro-slovak government of eduard heger, is slovakia in danger of being taken over by corrupt socialists in the center of europe, led by fic and pellegrini, whose nominees are now in prison and have begun to convict top politicians of the left and the right. in slovakia, the purge of the prosecution, courts, and police is in its third year. influential nominees from the socialist parties of the left and the right have been jailed, and suspicions go directly to the leaders of fic and pellegrini. today, right in the heart of europe, corruption, hand in hand with the mafia, threatens to tear slovakia from the hands of justice and open the door to the future government of fascists and mafias. what is happening in slovakia is a great lesson for all democrats. democracy is threatened by traitors. perhaps because of personal ambitions, perhaps because of the desire for help, money or unpaid debts, traitors are now willing to sell slovakia to the mafia, oligarchs and fascists.
madam president, we are in the midst of a major energy crisis caused mainly, but not only, by the russian aggression in ukraine, and we must all the more accelerate the transformation of our energy sector. in other words, it is about strengthening our strategic autonomy, that is, energy self-sufficiency, and thus mainly reducing our dependence on third countries, whether it be russia or qatar or azerbaijan. the main response is the development of renewable energy, which is becoming the cheapest source of energy, and the massive investment in its use. however, the lengthy authorisation procedures, which are indeed standard in some countries, are an obstacle to their wider use and therefore need to be accelerated and simplified without prejudicing the rights of the local communities with whom dialogue is needed. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient sales volumes of the product concerned from the sampled union producers. solar panels, wind turbines, but also nuclear fusion, together with biogas and green hydrogen, are the only energy sources we will have to rely on in the future if we do not want to become dependent on third countries and fossil fuels.
madam president, renewable energy sources are indeed key to combating climate change, reducing energy prices and ensuring a continuous supply of energy to the european union and ultimately to liberating ourselves from the dictates of fossil fuels. indeed, we need to remove the administrative barriers that prevent us from making the most of them and developing their full potential. however, it should be borne in mind that the production of renewable energy can and does damage protected areas and therefore conflicts with nature conservation, and therefore its production and development should be a priori focused on areas where such conflicts do not occur. i am particularly critical of this in relation to hydro and biomass energy production, where too much benevolence in pursuing a public interest overriding necessarily leads to the damage of rivers and the disappearance of precious forest areas. we have had enough of these protected forests being cut down and live rivers being cemented to understand that further destruction of the natural environment is simply unacceptable.
madam president, slovakia is certainly an inspiring example for all the countries of the western balkans that want to become members of the european union, how to proceed on this path and what reforms need to be implemented. it's good that you're putting so much energy into this region. he is also close to my country and to me personally, because i am slovak. the russian invasion of ukraine and the changes in the current geopolitical situation have made us realise that the european union's strategic interest is a stable and secure environment in its immediate neighbourhood, regardless of which of these countries will or will not eventually become a member state of the european union. the western balkans have been waiting in the waiting room for a long time for membership in the european union, whether it's serbia or montenegro or other countries. but today, in the current situation, and as a result of the tirana summit, there is a certain change in the perception of the whole process, and the frustration of these countries is changing into sober to cautious optimism. and the european union is also recovering from some of the exhaustion of enlargement and is committed to really taking these countries seriously. it would be good to continue this and we must help each other to do so.
mr president, both of the strategic frameworks we are discussing were adopted at a time when we were not even aware of the challenges we face today. during the covid pandemic, culture was one of the areas that suffered the most. we're not even out of the pandemic yet, and we're already in a war and the challenges that are associated with it, which are rewriting the modern history of europe. europe must also respond to these challenges in the field of culture. social inequality is deepening, and discontent is growing, populism is growing, and of course extremism is growing. at the same time, europe is moving towards new digital technologies. of course, artificial intelligence is being used more and more. all these changes are happening at a very rapid pace, and it is precisely in these difficult and rapidly changing times that culture has the greatest potential to lift the spirits, to bring people together, to strengthen their mutual identity and cohesion. however, funding for culture by the member states is still significantly under-resourced. and while we in the european parliament have managed to increase the budget for the creative europe programme, it is still not enough. the optimal solution could be to use funding for cultural support in synergy with other programmes such as horizon, europe or erasmus+. this would not only be a financial link but also a cross-sectoral link, particularly in the field of education, which i consider to be very crucial, and in the field of our cultural heritage. it is an integral part of the identity of each one of us.
madam president, we are building a social europe in which no one can be left behind. and yet we have 18 million children living in poverty. this is an emergency that we must respond to at both european, national and regional level. every third family with children in slovakia is at risk of poverty as a result of the crisis and inflation. single-parent households with more children are the worst off. poverty is a risk factor that increases the likelihood that a child will encounter malnutrition, poor health care, poor education, crime, domestic violence or other pathological phenomena. according to scientists, poverty reduces a child's chances of fulfilling his potential and living a good life. the child guarantee is an excellent instrument for improving the quality of life of children living in poverty. member states have allocated money from the esf+ to this, slovakia even allocating more than 14%. now the most important thing is to make sure that the resources really get to every single child in need. i consider this to be the most important role in which the european institutions must play a key role and not rely solely on the political will of national governments and politicians, which children tend to overlook because they cannot yet vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are discussing today the guarantee at european level that children can grow up without poverty and with a carefree childhood. having children is one of the happiest things that can happen to you. at the same time, the old saying is true: children expand the attack surface of fate. this is why the current crises - inflation, rising rents, rising interest rates on loans, rising prices in general - have particularly affected families with children. that is why the european child guarantee is particularly important. so i can only wholeheartedly argue that this is the wrong place to save. children should be supported in their talents. next year is the european year of skills and abilities giving children the chance to learn something and then to do it as a profession, to be able to do something and then to do it with pleasure this is also so important according to the old important motto that the best social programme is a workplace. my home country is called children's austria because we have been doing this for a long time, that children come first. in austria there is childcare allowance, the family bonus, and i would also like to see the child guarantee implemented at european level. children's noise is the music of the future.
mr president, dear commissioner, minister, the war in ukraine and its consequences in europe increased even further the need to support children in situations of poverty in europe. energy prices, food prices, all of those are affecting many children in europe. therefore, europe must react. esf+ is based on national pre-allocated financial envelopes. such envelopes can only be increased by modifying the mff. we call on the commission to come with a proposal for a dedicated budget to turn the child guarantee into reality. this supplementary programme with a dedicated budget will complement the esf+ with additional support for tackling child poverty on top of the national pre-allocated financial envelopes. this is not a new policy that would duplicate the existing ones, but a key eu-wide boost that would be essential for providing support and assistance to children in situations of poverty. children are our future and no child should be left behind.
mr president, 21% of european children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, which is almost 18 million. if you add the energy crisis, the war in ukraine, the food crisis, covid-19, inflation -- never before have so many families been impoverished so fast. my country, spain, is the third country in the european union with the highest risk of child poverty and social exclusion, behind romania and bulgaria. one in three children in spain is at risk of poverty, a rate well above the european average. spain is also the sixth country with the highest inequality of children. this child guarantee is timely, necessary and a priority. it aims to ensure that every child in europe has access to basic services: free education and healthcare, healthy nutrition and decent housing. children must be at the centre of all our policies. it is necessary to break the cycle of poverty transmission and, in this context, to protect, in particular, the most vulnerable children: children with disabilities.
the child poverty in the european union, one of the richest regions in the world, is unacceptable and is still growing. the covid pandemic, the war in ukraine, showed that the systems that were designed to end child poverty are not as strong as we thought they would be. and so we have to regret and take responsibility that even 18 million children are poor. and child support is important not only to get children out of poverty, but to keep them out of poverty. a separate budget is therefore necessary to implement the child guarantee. not all member states are really responsible in their approach to implementing the child guarantee. and even nine member states have not yet drawn up national implementation plans. this is just one example of the importance of european action to overcome child poverty. and it is true that a separate budget is needed, but it is equally true that a common political will is needed.
mr president, the ambitious target of lifting at least 5 million children in the european union out of poverty or social exclusion is a good start for the european child guarantee. but the work on this instrument is not over. until the basic living conditions for all children in the european union are guaranteed, we cannot speak of success. social exclusion is a complex and multifaceted phenomenon. its key factors are lack of resources and poverty, but also unequal access to services due to various forms of disadvantage. the proposal for a european child guarantee is particularly important in the context of the socio-economic consequences of the covid-19 pandemic and also of the economic crisis we are still living under. the solutions that member states are gradually and belatedly presenting need to be integrated into a broader policy framework to address the multidimensional nature of social exclusion. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of children and adolescents, in particular by examining the impact of the measures on the implementation of the union's policy on children and adolescents. we need more commitment from member state governments and above all the release of adequate amounts of funds to achieve a multi-dimensional systemic solution for our children's future.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the idea of the child guarantee was born here. today you have shown a continuing will, since you have shown that this parliament wants to be the defender and spokesman for the millions of children in europe who have no voice. the child guarantee is a good start, an encouragement and a strong invitation to member states. i would also like to see the same debate on child poverty in each member state in the 27 national parliaments. the commission is hereby engaged; she's not resigned, i can guarantee that. it is determined to work with the member states, with the funds at its disposal or, in the end, at the disposal of the member states , and i fully understand that the circumstances have worsened further. the danger of increasing child poverty in europe is more than real since inflation has hit many households and families. i believe that the desire to think about how to deal with this situation and to strengthen the means available to combat child poverty is a completely legitimate desire, which i understand and which the commission can certainly share. i can assure you that the commission will remain in constant dialogue with you to ensure that what has been decided and implemented on the existing funds is actually implemented and, if necessary, strengthened to deal with a situation that has deteriorated.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, mr commissioner, thank you for this important debate. i think that helping the most vulnerable children, investing in children’s wellbeing and child—poverty eradication is not only investing in their future, it is investing in our future, in eu future. and i can just completely subscribe also to the words of commissioner schmit that regarded the desperate situation of children in ukraine. as a minister of education, helping and integrating ukrainian refugee children has become the most important part of my agenda, as there are around 70 000 ukrainian children in the czech republic. so i would like to thank very much all other member states who place help to ukrainian children as one of their highest priorities. the fight against child poverty and the protection of the rights of the child have been reaffirmed in numerous conclusions, resolutions and legislation adopted by the council and the parliament. the union and national targets on poverty reduction attest to the european union’s and member states commitment in the fight against child poverty. it is inspiring to see our common aspirations in this area materialise into concrete action in member states, through the national action plans and the relevant reforms and investments. in the challenging times we are facing, making the european child guarantee a success is not just a goal, it is a necessity. the union is already supporting the member states in their efforts to fight child poverty and reach their national targets with several funding instruments. each fund serves a specific purpose and can contribute to the success of the european child guarantee in a targeted way. so let me also once again thank you for your attention and end my concluding remarks.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, what a scandal! you can't do business with politics. but who do some meps think they are? the gods? we are representatives of our people, not sellers of votes or influence. ethics, responsibility, integrity in work and above all transparency must be the way we exercise our mandate. our political group has denounced corruption many times. he reported that we were being harassed by many lobbies. and the big groups did nothing. there are foreign interferences such as those of qatar, morocco, israel or turkey. this is nothing new, your honours. we demand an inquiry commission and zero tolerance against corruption. i am very surprised, by the way, that the spanish people's party is not present in the house today. i'm very surprised. mr rajoy, please.
member of the commission. – mr president, members of this parliament, thank you for this very important debate and for channelling your anger and frustration into a firm commitment to do what’s necessary to rebuild trust. there must be zero tolerance for corruption. it’s a very serious crime that undermines our democracy, economy and society. as a union, we need to learn the hard lessons and take responsibility. the scandal we are discussing here today goes well beyond ethics violations; it’s a criminal investigation. even though we urgently need the eu ethics body for all european institutions, this is a criminal investigation. he only way we can rebuild trust is to fully support this investigation – for the guilty to be brought to justice and for us to root out corruption anywhere we find it. finally, let me say that our debate today also gives me hope. the strong words spoken on condemnation, the demand for justice and action; we are at the beginning of a struggle that will be long and hard. bringing the guilty to justice will be, comparatively, the easy part, – rebuilding trust, that will be hard. let us be honest about this. to do that, our fight against corruption must be unrelenting, uncompromising and unforgiving in our union, in our member states and in our institutions. to show everyone it is not this scandal that defines us, but our resolve, determination and action to do everything it takes to do what is right.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. – it takes two to tango. corruption in this parliament does not just arise because it is provoked from the outside, as our president claims. it also arises because objectively, features in our operations invite such ‘provocation’, and find response among some of us. there are the ways by which decisions are taken – not least those related to personnel and functions: in cabals, justified via political alliances or hidden friendships; prized representatives of this parliament besides their work here, carry on unchecked lucrative and non-transparent assignments; a huge number of meps do not provide any information about their contacts and discussions with third parties. the parliament expands its areas of discussion beyond its competences, impacting on the public opinion of nations and the views of rating agencies. another fallacy is to believe that the problem is restricted to interference by authoritarian regimes. likely, democratic regimes are also responsible, from israel and taiwan to the us. more importantly, a much wider range of private sector lobbies with a much deeper interest in eu affairs must be considered. the critical self-assessment that is important in considering these issues is never close to our concerns. in the eight years i have been here, i have not seen it.
the next item is the statement by the commission and the council the recent decision by the council of the jha on accession to the schengen area (2022/3011 ((rsp))
i'll never forget that sad look when us president biden announced from the white house that america would not allow europe to build a gas pipeline between russia and germany, the nord stream pipeline. the german chancellor scholz was standing next to him, just quietly, shaking his feet. friends, this was a glimpse of a picture of a betrayed europe. the americans told us to accept the energy sanctions. europe has done, obeyed and suffered. then the americans said they'd sell us three times the price of lng. europe has obeyed and paid. now the americans have said that they will favour domestic producers, their own american producers, and thus disadvantage european producers. and europe just watches in silence. i join my colleagues in calling for the european union's leadership to finally take a bold and decisive stand in support of european industry. that many in brussels serve american interests, we all know that. but now is the time to stand up for our europe, for our european industry.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. ipes food estimates that 20 to 40% of the increase in food prices is due to speculation. we had the slovenian prime minister here yesterday, a former very successful energy trader, who made it clear to us that a large part of energy prices is due to speculation. he knows what he's talking about. we have the opportunity at the moment to make improvements in the review of the regulation of market speculation, of this law. the commission's proposals are still not far-reaching enough. we're a lot more lax than the u.s. right now. we must finally reform the food and energy prices so that they are not left to speculation! the european commission and eu agencies such as the european securities and markets authority are invited to finally officially verify the amount of speculation. because it is not possible for european citizens to freeze and starve while some speculators make a lot of money. we must do something about it! i'm asking you to act.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic crisis first and the consequences of the russian-ukrainian conflict second have generated a double-digit inflationary spiral, the likes of which have not been seen for some time on our continent. it is time for quick and urgent solutions, which provide answers and support for consumers, households and businesses, starting with the fight against the increase in energy prices, on which we hope to see decisions already at the next european council to stop speculation. for months now, the price quotations for gas on the european market, as well as the consequences of putin's criminal action, have been based on purely speculative logic. in view of the circumstances, once again, we need the real solidarity of europe from those who have made extra profits in recent months. finally, in the light of the current economic scenario with rising interest rates, i believe that a concrete signal is needed from the european union and the member states to alleviate the needs of consumers, households and businesses through an extension of the moratoriums on business and mortgages. we do not need adjournments on these matters, but decisions.
thank you, mr president, commissioner. thank you for your time. the inhumane rise in food and energy prices is pushing low- and middle-income people into poverty and social exclusion. but the decisions needed are very late. i do not understand why some member states still do not apply a reduced vat rate to even the most basic foodstuffs, while the greed of the shareholders of companies is unjustified. finally, it is not clear why compensation mechanisms apply equally to both low and medium income earners and even high income earners. we must ensure that this heavy burden of price inflation is not placed on the backs of our most vulnerable and lowest-income people. it is a pity that even at the level of the european union there is no solidarity and no political will to agree on solutions in the energy field. yesterday we saw the energy ministers fail to agree on a price increase for gas.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, minister and colleagues. it is clear that the free market is unable to balance prices in times of crisis. one percent of the people control half the world's wealth. during the pandemic, these people made record profits and further increased social inequality. they want to do it again now, using the war russia started. what about politicians? we were just talking. when are we going to start cutting profits in the food sector? without food, people cannot survive. a third of the food price increase is a disaster we don't want to see because we're still protecting the rich. lieutenant, where's our plan of action? it was supposed to be approved in the spring. i urge you to stop talking and start doing something.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today, inflation in sweden broke new records and putin is the main one to blame. but the energy crisis is also a european failure. the market just doesn't work. this requires more radical solutions, a fundamental reform of the eu electricity market. all our proposals will be aimed at lowering electricity prices. at the same time, we must also support the households. the swedish government has put many swedish households in an impossible situation with its bankruptcy. that is why we swedish social democrats want to introduce an electricity bill package and help all of sweden to cope with electricity costs this winter. unlike the government, we understand that the people north of the river valley are also having a hard time. we social democrats do not turn a blind eye to the failures of the market. we will act forcefully when our citizens are under pressure.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i think that this debate was very useful to share and to give us the sense of a social emergency that we have to address. very important, in my view, first to understand where this social emergency is coming from. i am not referring to, of course, our historical problems of social inequalities, but i am referring to the recent social emergency. and i think that the reason is not on the green transition. the reason is not on sanctions. the main reason is the russian aggression in ukraine and the consequences of this russian aggression on prices, energy, food, inflation. how to face this challenge? i think several good points came out of this discussion. i will only stress three things. first, the emergency. so our social safety nets, the contribution that we can give at european level to those social safety nets. important i think that we reached an agreement on the recommendation on the minimum income and ensuring active inclusion. important the minimum wages directive. important to address the windfall profits both at eu and national level. second is energy. we have some good news: tonight we reached the agreement of this new tool, repowereu, but we know that further steps are needed to address the problems for the reform of the electricity market. and third is what kind of reaction we are giving overall to this. i don’t think that the same old recipes are those that we are supposed to use now. we have new tools. this nextgenerationeu recovery plan is the basis for investing on the resilience of our societies. we are proud of our social model, but we want to strengthen this social model also with the common resources of nextgenerationeu. and then we need to invest more in the european competitiveness because we have to avoid that the social crisis which is already there in the purchasing power becomes gradually also an unemployment crisis, which is not there at the moment. but of course, if we lose competitiveness, if we don’t invest in our competitiveness, the risk is there. so i think that also this part of the response is very, very important.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you again for this debate. it is indeed very timely given the precarious situation of our most vulnerable citizens and businesses; the cohesion of our societies is at stake. we are all well aware that there will be a price to pay for all of us as a result of russia’s actions. we need to make sure the burden is fairly distributed. the issues debated remain at the core of the council agenda, as demonstrated by last week’s discussions on the european semester and the european care strategy, this morning’s agreement on repowereu and many others. as i said here earlier today, the czech presidency is working hard to find a solution regarding gas price caps, and i am cautiously optimistic that we could still achieve results in the days to come. difficult times require determination, solidarity and the right policy response. this means finding the right balance between the economic, employment and social dimensions of the semester. our debate in the council, and this one here today, and our continuous endeavours give me confidence that, despite all the difficulties, we are all working for the same goal – helping our citizens to go through this multidimensional crisis.
in writing. rising inflation, rising energy prices and eroding purchasing power are current challenges that we need to address immediately with concrete measures that have an immediate positive impact on citizens' lives. people don't have to bear the economic burden of this context and we can't leave anyone behind. the situation is all the more serious as the cost increase has a significant impact primarily on vulnerable groups, low-income families or the elderly who were already facing many difficulties. it is important to use the funds available efficiently, but also to identify those new resources that will allow us to implement the necessary solutions. one step is to stop the speculation in the energy market, identified by the experts in the field, and tax those who made huge profits. the implementation of the european minimum wage, for which our political group and the psd have made significant efforts, can ensure decent wages throughout europe and better pay for workers. at the same time, in the run-up to the european year of skills, we must also focus on measures related to qualification and re-qualification, in order to increase the chance of workers in the labour market. there's a lot to do, but solutions can't wait. only together can we successfully overcome these challenges.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, this presidency, we have experienced, like many others before us, many difficult discussions in the council. but experience shows that diplomacy and perseverance pay off since, in the overwhelming majority of cases, we manage to find solutions to overcome our differences and break the deadlock. true, this takes countless hours of talks and efforts to understand each other’s positions. translating sometimes into late night or early morning compromises like we have been experiencing these days. but this is how the union works. the number of files which remain blocked over prolonged periods of time is rather insignificant, statistically speaking. our swift reaction to the recent crisis shows our unity and capacity to find agreement in the interest of us all. i would like to recall that unanimity is a voting modality provided by the treaties, albeit currently an exception from the rule, which is qualified majority voting, unanimity is typically applicable to decisions in the common foreign and security policy area. well, treaties require the council to act unanimously; the act can only be adopted when member states vote in favour. but, importantly, the treaty provides that abstentions do not prevent the act from being adopted. in the area of the common foreign and security policy, there is also the so-called constructive abstention, which allows a member state that uses this possibility not to apply the adopted decision while permitting the union to go forward. this is what has been successfully used in the context of the european peace facility. while there is a lot we can do through discussions and persuasion, a member state remains free when expressing its vote in the council, and this is a fundamental element of our european democracy. after all, council members are responsible towards their citizens and their national parliaments for the action, including how they vote in the council. treaty change would, of course, be one of the possible avenues that may also be considered to bring more areas under qualified majority voting. however, as you know, it is a very heavy procedure. this possibility has been discussed in the follow up to the conference on the future of europe. more importantly, in many areas, it is possible to switch from unanimity to qualified majority voting without modifying the treaties. indeed, the treaties contain one general and the six specific so-called passerelle clauses. they allow the european council or the council also acting by unanimity, but through a simple procedure, to switch to a qualified majority in the council. as a follow up to the conference on the future of europe the council has started discussing the possible use of passerelle clauses to switch to qualified majority. the czech presidency has notably initiated exploratory discussions on this issue, focusing on the common foreign and security policy. i look very much forward to hearing your views. i will have to leave the room for a short while as i have a duty to sign several legislative acts together with president metsola. but my colleagues will be here and report to me afterwards. my personal and friendly advice to honourable members would be to, instead of attacking the council as the institution, rather focus the energy on reaching out towards national parliaments, as these are the bodies that national governments are accountable to.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, we all know that the lisbon treaty extended the system of qualified majority voting to a large number of policy areas on which the council used to take decisions by unanimity. for instance, in the area of justice and home affairs. the lisbon treaty also added the new so-called pastoral clause – which the minister was referring to – giving the council or the european council the possibility to move from unanimity to qualified majority voting in certain areas for certain acts. however, unanimity still applies under the current treaties in a number of policy areas, and the pastoral clauses remain unused – also because you need unanimity to deliver the pastoral clause. the commission has long been pushing to move towards more qualified majority voting. this was also called for in this commission’s political guidelines from july 2019. policy fields that would benefit from this change are energy, taxation, or some aspects of the common foreign and security policy such as sanctions and human rights. in the conference on the future of europe, citizens also called for moving from unanimity to qualified majority voting in some policy areas. today, i can only confirm that the commission fully supports the call for moving away from unanimity in some policy areas. this can already be done under the rules of the current treaties. we stand ready to engage with both parliament and the council on this matter, and the commission will always be on the side of those who want to reform the eu to make it work better.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have been here in this european parliament since 2009 and over the years i have been reminded - dear mr verhofstadt, you have been here even longer than i have - that certain precarious dossiers are subject to repeated national vetoes and that there are repeated long, long, long delays because a member state is in conflict. in the field of foreign policy, this is extremely precarious, considering that we have now had the case of hungary, which, in order to be able to override the conditionality mechanism inadequately for itself in the country and to undermine the standards which the commission rightly demands, is trying to blackmail the council into accepting its aid for ukraine only if hungary has to, so to speak, apply fewer rule of law standards. i must say that i cannot express my indignation enough at the fact that a member state of the european union and viktor orbán are even trying to do this, because, quite simply, aid to ukraine is absolutely necessary and internal budgetary issues and questions of the rule of law must not be linked to the ability to act in foreign policy. i would like to congratulate the czech presidency on having managed to use the conditionality mechanism for the first time in a difficult situation and still find a solution. we're gonna have a lot of questions to answer. we need to have a capacity for action in foreign policy without unanimity.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, so it’s not only a question of, ‘ah, finally we find a solution, even with the unanimity’, it’s the time we lose. that’s even a more important problem. so it’s not only a question of saying, ‘yeah, but finally, in the european union, after six months, nine months, one year, two years – the migration package is already seven years but ok, that’s only an exception maybe – we find the solution. no, it’s not about that. it’s also about the time you lose. how you manage europe in the modern world if you need seven years to agree on a migration package. if you need six months to agree on some sanctions in the case of a war against ukraine, that’s the problem. and that, apparently, mr bek and the czech presidency and the whole council doesn’t want to understand. now they are saying, ‘look, it’s going better because the last packages prove that it is working’. some people are even waxing lyrical about the agreement that has been found in the beginning of this week. in fact, what is happening is that two evident files with no contestation – the 80 billion loan to ukraine and a minimum tax on multinationals – are traded against two disputable concessions to orbán: the approval of his recovery plan on the one hand, and then lowering the frozen amount from 6.3 to 5.8 billion. well, i predict you something. i predict to you this at this moment that this is not the end, mr president, of this file. what orbán will do is to continue every new file in 2023 or to lower that amount, or to escape completely on the rule—of—law mechanism. this is not the end of the blackmail. it’s only the start of the blackmail, the agreement that you have found. so, i think it’s high time to abolish vetoes. we have done, you have done, president metsola has done a request based on article 48. what i ask for is a little bit of respect of the council towards the parliament. if the parliament – based on the treaties, on article 48 – is asking for a convention, at least that they have respect for the parliament and answer that request, and are saying yes or no. for me it’s the same. say no, say no against the citizens of the european union, who in the conference on the future of europe asked for such a convention and abolishing unanimity, but at least show respect for the only democratically chosen institution of this continent.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unanimity is a fundamental principle of the european construction. it is the weapon which enables each member state of the union to block a decision which would harm its vital interests. general de gaulle recalled this in the name of france in 1965, when he used the empty chair policy to force europe to give up imposing on it a reform it did not want. its successful resistance led to the luxembourg compromise of january 1966, which is still in force, and which enshrines this national veto power. unanimity is still enshrined in the european treaties. it is required for european council decisions and for the most important council decisions. i therefore condemn the challenge to it by president macron and by today's debate. the majority of this parliament criticises hungary for vetoing aid to ukraine in protest against the freezing of its subsidies. on the contrary, it believes that hungary was right to do so. its firmness has also enabled it to reach an agreement with the union. let us protect unanimity, because it is the only principle that allows member states to retain their sovereignty within the union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, dear colleagues, many want to abolish the veto to make things easier, not really better. democracy should be fair and honest, not easy – and easy for whom? democracy is difficult. autocracy is easy. it should remain the basic right of member states, as it is the last rampart of defence for the small, weak and vulnerable against the strong, big and bullish. it is rooted in the tradition and history of eu. it is a normal procedure in the eu, and big member states use it on a regular basis. it is an expression of the wisdom of the founding fathers, whose wish was to create a balanced community of equals. since lisbon, the few vetoes left remain the only way for small and medium-sized member states to protect themselves against the diktat hegemony of bigger states and their directorates. the veto serves the vital interests of the abused, the weapon of the weak meant to establish the balance when they face a risk of being bridled and abused. removing the veto would also put in danger the cohesion of the eu. the eu is about consensus, not divisions. to those who demand the cancellation of the veto, do it yourselves first. be the example by giving up the veto for your countries through a solemn declaration not to use it; create an enhanced avant-garde. do not practice hypocrisy. germany declared that it would veto enlargement if the veto were not removed from the treaty. it is kafkaesque and grotesque. to those who demand the cancellation of the veto, do it yourselves first. solemnly declare not to use it. good luck.
mr president the double standard on the veto issue is unacceptable in the european union. it is a very hypocritical attitude that while hungary is untrue and baseless accused of breaking up and vetoing european unity when it courageously stands up for its position and values, the old member states can do so without consequences in much more serious cases. these cases are called "disagreement" and never "veto". the title of today's debate reflects that bias. politically misleading. what you call the mainstream liberal veto is nothing more than the unanimity of decision-making enshrined in the founding treaties, which is the basis of good faith cooperation. european integration was created by the member states, who are the masters of the treaties. that's why the founders guaranteed the right to have their say in any decision that was important to them. the abolition of unanimity would mean the end of the sovereignty of the member states and the completion of centralisation in brussels. it would make it impossible to think differently, to disagree, and it would undermine european unity. the union cannot become a united states of europe serving federalist interests.
i would like to say very clearly to the honourable member and to the previous speakers: the position of this house is very clear, as is that of the conference on the future of europe. we want a more democratic european union. veto is veto! the veto is a blockade, and the veto is undemocratic. the veto is not a question of big or small. the veto is a question of future or blockade. i think we should also be clear about this: the process of european union has always been that integration has been accompanied by democratization and democratization by parliamentarisation. unanimity is not in keeping with parliamentary democracy. it is unparliamentary and undemocratic. this criticism is not only directed at hungary, but we have had other countries this week, my own or the netherlands, which also vetoed it.
mr president you just abused your right as chair of the meeting.
no, i am not doing that because i have merely repeated what the majority position of this house is and what the majority position of the conference on the future of europe is. the fact that the process of democratization always goes hand in hand with a process of parliamentarisation has nothing to do with the fact that we have different opinions here. but it is also about clarifying the majority position of this house.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the past days have been difficult times for our house. i am convinced, however, that the best remedy to european problems is a clear, strong and unified european answer. whether it concerns a massive corruption scandal, or russia’s attack against ukraine, european unity is what keeps our continent going forward. the european union has lived through many political crises in the past decade – financial and debt crises, security crises, migration crises, brexit, the pandemic and russia’s war of aggression. the common denominator of our successful answers to this crisis has been our unity. unity in purchasing vaccines, adopting sanctions on russia, fully standing behind ukraine and protecting our fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. this house, too, is strongest when united across party lines. yes, this means that european unity is fiercely fought over and, at times, comes through after complicated negotiations and public disagreements. the ultimate goal of political leaders, those from member states, from the european institutions and from this house, must be, however, to find common ground and remain united, especially in times of war and crisis. national vetoes have to be the absolute nuclear option, not a tactical weapon, and they should not undermine the common european interests of the rest of the union. i find vetoes that weaken us in times of war and that question our fundamental freedoms counterproductive and dangerous. dear colleagues, indeed unity is what keeps our union capable, powerful and attractive, and unity based on common european interest is the only meaningful answer to the eu’s schengen enlargement and to europe’s resolute support for ukraine’s european future.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you first for the oral question on a matter whose urgency is emphasised by the recent events and developments. you have already held a debate on suspicions of corruption from qatar and the need for transparency and accountability in the european institutions yesterday. in answering your questions of the documents shared with us earlier this year, i will present to you some elements of the upcoming defence of democracy package which the commission president announced, and it was referred to already, but also in this very room, in this year’s state of the union address. the defence of democracy package is scheduled for adoption in the second quarter of 2023 and the following elements are currently considered. first, a legislative proposal to protect our democracies from third—country entities exercising activities in the union that may impact public opinion and the democratic sphere. second, a review of actions under the european democracy action plan. third, measures on secure and resilient elections, including, among others, cybersecurity measures in electoral processes. fourth, the commission is in the process of gathering additional information to refine the scope of the measures to be included in the package. the commission is gathering information with the study, is organising consultations with relevant stakeholders and we are following carefully the work of the inge ii committee. the new measures will tie in with numerous existing initiatives such as the digital service act and the revised code of practice on disinformation, as well as initiatives which still need to be adopted by the co-legislators, such as the proposal on the transparency and targeting of political advertising, on strategic lawsuits against public participation and the recast of the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and foundations and the media freedom act. in this regard, the commission would also like to call on the support of the european parliament to finalise the legislative procedure for the adoption of these proposals. the european external action service, in close cooperation with the european commission, has continued its work on foreign information manipulation and interference and disinformation, which has been considerably strengthened through the european democracy action plan and the strategic compass, as well as other initiatives such as the revised code of practice on disinformation or the european digital media observatory. now coming to the question of protection of critical infrastructure, there’s a separate framework and work stream dealing with this matter of security of critical infrastructure, and the council discussed this only recently. with regard to election—related infrastructure, the commission stated in the european democracy action plan that marking electoral processes or aspects of their administration as critical infrastructure could render more effective efforts to address specific threats. the commission considers that cooperation among member states to ensure resilient electoral processes is essential, and we will continue to use the european cooperation network on elections to deliver on its commitments on election—related matters. specific measures at eu level will be taken to protect election infrastructures against cyberattacks, such as the update of the compendium on cybersecurity of election technology and practical exercises to explore risks and preparedness. the honourable members also ask whether the new measures will tackle the issue of former european officials working for hostile foreign entities. on this topic, the package that aims to provide more transparency regarding covert foreign influence will build on a solid framework of rules on the specific issue of former european officials. there are a number of provisions in place which regulate already the activities of former staff, such as the staff regulations and more detailed administrative provisions for the staff of each institution. as confirmed by a recent audit from the european court of auditors and the inquiry of the european ombudsman on the ‘revolving doors’ phenomenon, the commission has a robust ethical framework in place. with regard to members of other eu institutions, the court of auditors, the court of justice and the european central bank have adopted rules on post—mandate activities applicable to their former members. for officials in place, the commission would like to refer to its existing regulations, which provide for basic requirements for recruitment and obligation for officials to conduct themselves solely with the interests of the union in mind. any signs of conflict of interest or activities are reported and duly followed up at the appropriate level. staff members are also obliged to follow a course of ethics, which alerts staff members to potential risks, especially in certain directorates—general which are more exposed to links with third countries. as commissioner johansson mentioned at this place yesterday, we must criminalise all forms of corruption in all member states. that is why next year we will propose a new law that will impose tougher penalties for bribery, trafficking and influence, embezzlement and abuse of power. regarding the issue on the extent to which the package includes a whole—of—society approach, we have taken this approach already in the european democracy action plan. all sectors need to be involved and accountable: public authorities and politicians, media and civil society, industry and also online platforms. civil society in particular will benefit from the elements of the package in several ways by supporting the development of tools to address covert influence through funding by third countries. we will help civil society to better understand where different actors are coming from. as part of the review of the european democracy action plan, the commission will also look at actions which involve civil society, including by developing civic space and citizens’ participation to bolster democratic resilience from within. regarding funding itself, the commission is currently providing a number of funds to civil society, researchers and practitioners. for instance, under horizon europe or citizenship equality rights in various programmes. finally, i would like to address the question inquiring whether the commission will use the inge report as the basis for drafting the defence of democracy package. i would like to thank the honourable members and the special committee, as well as the rapporteur, ms kalniete, for this very broad and exhaustive document. we have carefully read the report and followed with a written reply on 30 august 2022. i hope that the detail in the reply shows how we found the report to be very rich and stimulating. we are following and actively participating in the works of the inge ii committee. these fruitful exchanges, the report and all related documents will help us to the development of the defence of democracy package and help identify the most relevant issues that need to be addressed. in particular, the issue of defence of the eu democratic sphere from covert foreign influence.
for the ppe group. we all know the important work we started a few years ago in the special committee on foreign interference in democratic processes, including disinformation. the greed of some of our colleagues, literally in live broadcast, shows that democracy and democratic decision-making is a never-ending endeavor. there is no pause in a democracy. we are facing attacks on democracy from within and without. but i'm not standing here to despair. i'm here to emphasize that the fight for clean, fair, democratic decision-making is the only way forward, even if it sometimes comes with obstacles. but we will tackle the obstacles as europeans, we will face them head on and together we will find a way to better counter the threats. in this parliament we are showing that we know how to fight and want to fight against bad influences. but let me tell you what i think is most important. what should really be our focus? i am not afraid that the european parliament will not deal with corruption. but none of what we're dealing with these days can compare to what the brave people of ukraine have been experiencing for almost a year. i mean, nothing. let's remember that russian aggression is not just directed at ukraine. it is aimed at our citizens, at the people of our immediate neighbourhood, but also at our parliament. i would therefore like to call on the european commission, commissioner, to move as quickly as possible to prepare measures to strengthen our democratic resilience. autocratic foreign interference did not show up in our work yesterday. let's not get our hopes up that he'll disappear. on the contrary, it will become more and more wilful, treacherous, and dangerous. european institutions and our citizens must be prepared for this reality.
madam president, despite the fact that we often discuss the status and protection of journalists here in the european parliament, journalists in europe are still under threat. there are still many journalists who are not allowed to do their work freely, without intimidation, restrictions or fear for their lives and the lives of their loved ones. today we see with our own eyes the courageous journalists in ukraine who risk their lives to let the world know the truth and the atrocities of russian aggression. we also see brave journalists in russia facing the harshest punishment for taking a risk and wanting to spread the truth. europe has its own heroes: ján kuciak from slovakia, daphne galizia from malta, whose lives were extinguished precisely because they wanted to write the truth. unfortunately, free journalism is dying. this is not surprising, since journalists are under immense pressure. how can they win the fight against the mafia, corrupt politicians or oligarchs if they don't have the conditions in place? in various european countries, opinion-forming media are bought by wealthy oligarchs, who often build their businesses on the edge of the law. they literally corrupt politicians and, through the media they own, attack those who fight corruption through embedded journalists. they do not seek the truth, they represent the interests of their patrons, and they tarnish the reputation of honest journalists. that is why we are more likely to encounter pseudo-journalists who spread disinformation, hate, and lies. if we want a free europe and a fair, just society, we have to give journalists enough resources, including their personal protection. we can't let what happened to john and daphne happen again.
madam president, as a result of the current energy crisis and high inflation, the who predicts that more than 120,000 people could lose their lives in europe this winter. hundreds of thousands will lose their jobs, and millions will have to choose between eating healthily and getting enough heat. we have to help people because they are not in this situation because of their own fault, but because of the russian invasion of ukraine, our sanctions against russia and its subsequent countermeasures. it is clear that the current long-term budget is not enough and we need a more structured approach to better support our households and our businesses facing challenges such as this energy crisis or the crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic. but we need to do so in a way that we can also pay the costs of rising interest rates and finance programmes like eu4health or erasmus+. but believe me, people don't care if we create an additional financial instrument within the long-term budget or it's independent of the spending ceilings in the long-term budget. but it must be a resource that will enable us to respond better and more quickly to crises and their social consequences in the future.
in writing. the eu is facing a number of challenges today that were not anticipated when the budget was adopted in 2020 (for example, the war in ukraine, high energy prices and high inflation). i agree that the eu budget therefore needs to be adapted to the new reality. however, i do not agree with the call in the report to maintain funding for the planned programmes and to address new challenges with additional resources only. in my view, we should put more emphasis on getting the resources for the necessary expenditure by moving from inefficient programmes under the current budget. otherwise, it will be at the expense of economic growth, i.e. the living standards of the people in the eu.
fellas, i think i'm having a dream. i've never seen such concentrated hypocrisy in my life. i'm not even gonna get mad that for 7.5 grand, nobody's sitting here again. but i really don't understand why we have to deal with protests in china tens of thousands of miles away instead of dealing with the problems of today's europeans. so parliament is going to pass some sort of resolution condemning the protests in china. but i ask, where was the european union when the police were suppressing the protests of europeans? where were the condemning resolutions of the european parliament when police in slovakia shot a protester in the neck with a projectile, saying he had a hole in his neck? then everyone was quiet. today, protesters in china are called conscientious citizens fighting for freedom, but protesters in europe were labeled as desolate and extremist and irresponsible citizens. please, i absolutely disagree with that and i think we should focus on what we were elected to do. that means solving the problems of europeans and not the problems of the whole world, because that's not what people elected us here to do.
that concludes the item.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of its next part-session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today’s sitting to the persons and bodies named in the resolutions.
the next part-session will take place from 16–19 january 2023.
let me wish you all merry christmas and happy new year, and on behalf of all of us, i would like to thank the staff in the european parliament – the interpreters, secretariat, administration, drivers, ushers, everybody who makes our life easier. thank you so much and have nice holidays. (the sitting closed at 15.50)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
