author. thank you very much, mr. chairman, and i congratulate you very warmly on your election. mr. president, maybe i will switch into english. this is not my lengthy speech. this is a list of political prisoners in kazakhstan of human rights defenders persecuted for political reasons. there are hundreds of names. this list is much longer today after the crackdown on the peaceful demonstrations that recently took place in kazakhstan. people in over 60 cities took to the streets, first because of price increases, but it quickly developed into protests against the cruel regime in kazakhstan. hundreds were killed, thousands are in prisons, and many are being tortured. why? why? because they are fighting for the same values and for the same freedoms which unite most of us in this house and in the european union. how is it possible that we sign the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement, but we barely react when basic human rights are being trampled in the most brutal manner? where is any activity from the european external action service? i see commissioner that you are now taking over all functions in the european commission. our mailboxes are flooded by fake news and propaganda coming from official kazakh authorities, but we, in this house, get two hours to prepare a resolution on those horrible events, and this resolution should not exceed five pages. we wanted, in this resolution, to describe the horrible situation of the citizens in kazakhstan and demand sanctions against the kazakh authorities, despite the fact that the resolution is too short and does not describe the situation thoroughly due to lack of time and space, which is a shame in fact. i must ask you all to vote for this resolution; call out for personal sanctions against those who are responsible for the crimes committed against the people of kazakhstan.
author. – mr president, many things are still unclear in the events of this month in kazakhstan, yet one thing is deadly clear: the enormous use of force by many parties to those events. let me quote one document that is available on the web page of csto, the organisation led by the kremlin – by vladimir putin – from the meeting of leaders on 10 july, where he said that he was not willing to allow further ‘colour revolutions’ in the region. that means that the so—called stabilising intervention that we had there by csto forces resembled the events that we know from hungary and czechoslovakia in communist times rather than current peaceful operations to stabilise the situation.
author. – mr president, allow me to congratulate you on your election – it’s the first time you are chairing our session. commissioner, for decades, repression and persecution have been pervasive in kazakhstan. it is therefore welcome that, since taking power, the tokayev government has promised and announced democratic reforms. yet we need to see the implementation of these reforms. now, the internal situation in kazakhstan remains complex, and we need to understand what happened exactly when the peaceful demonstrations turned violent. what kind of elements were involved? were they organised? were they instigated by somewhere? so above all, we need an independent international investigation into those events. the truth about who caused the escalation and the ensuing violence and loss of life must be found out, and the perpetrators must be punished when they exceed normal dealing with demonstrations. the kleptocrats who by any means try to cling to power should face tough measures. let us be firm in recovering the assets which have been stolen by the elites. let’s ensure that we contribute to the fact that they face justice for crimes against their own people. those who are on the side of the reforms in kazakhstan need to be identified, and they critically deserve our support. colleagues, there’s a lot that can be done by the eu to support democracy and the rule of law in kazakhstan. together with the osce and the un human rights council, the eu must ensure that these independent investigations will be carried out. all allegations of torture and ill treatment in detention must be thoroughly investigated, and civil society and free media must be supported in their work.
mr president, at the beginning of january a real workers' and people's revolt broke out in kazakhstan. the trigger for the protests was the rise in the price of liquefied gas, but in reality this was just the final straw for a population living under a corrupt regime that exploits the popular classes while benefiting corrupt elites, a regime that has been robbing and brutally repressing its own people for years. that in 24 hours and in the middle of winter the price of fuel has doubled, while 70% of kazakh oil is exported to western markets, is simply a shame. and this was the last straw. that 162 people - that is, 0.001 percent of the kazakh population - own 55 percent of the country's wealth is yet another example of the brutal inequality that the extractive capitalist model implemented in the country is capable of generating. this is also violence and we cannot forget it. we cannot forget either that a significant amount of the plunder of the kazakh people has been converted into shares and property in western europe amidst appalling silence. demanding an end to corruption in kazakhstan means also looking at western economic interests and defending the demands that have taken the kazakh people out into the streets, such as those made by oil workers calling for the nationalization of the country's oil wealth. as long as the causes behind the protests are not addressed and solved and people continue to look the other way, the problem will persist, because inequality and corruption have become a real hijack of democracy. let us not forget that without sharing of wealth there is no democracy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, two weeks ago, the protest in kazakhstan began with people's anger at the increase in the price of gas, which has more than doubled amid great inequalities. according to several ngos, the official death toll of 225 is vastly underestimated. the government, however, continues to invoke the fight against terrorism as a justification for the bloody responses to this revolution. but this crisis also highlights an autocratic regime that was set up by nazarbayev, who himself organized a transfer of power to tokayev by maintaining his political and economic influence and which reinforced injustices, and discontent was expressed in the streets. it also appears that this popular discontent was compounded by a clan war. this country, long considered the stability of the region by a number of actors, has become the instability of the region. perhaps we should assess our european support for a kazakh elite whose only aim was to enrich itself and impoverish its people. i think we need to evaluate and change our foreign policy.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the recent events in kazakhstan have once again proved how fragile the situation is in central asia. two weeks after the tragic events in the country, we still don’t have a clear picture of what actually happened. there is an official account of the events with limited credibility and a flood of unofficial reports with a greater or lesser degree of credibility. what we know for sure is that extreme violence and rioting took place, people died and the country was on the verge of sliding into complete chaos. there seems to be consensus that social issues were the trigger of these protests, as peaceful demonstrators demanded lower fuel prices and political change in the country. however, the nature of the protests completely changed when rioting, robbing and use of firearms in the streets began. some reports indicate an excessive use of force by the authorities, but it is also true that rioters used force; some of them were armed and extremely violent, not only towards the police, but also towards fellow citizens and bystanders. what we need now is a foreign investigation of recent events, with the involvement of the international community. i think the osce can do an excellent job in this matter. but above all we need to stress that it is in the hands of the kazakh authorities to draw lessons from these tragic events if they wish to be a strategic partner of the european union. kazakhstan needs to start an open and frank process of democratisation of its society. i know it is a tough choice, but the only way to guarantee the long-term stability and prosperity of the country is to ensure the full respect of all citizens’ fundamental rights.
in writing. it is always a good time to discuss sexual and reproductive health and rights in the eu. this is particularly true of this plenary session, which was held to mark, among other things, the election of the new president of the european parliament. the election of only the third female president in the history of our institution must be only the beginning of a new, intensified fight for gender equality and women's rights, including sexual and reproductive health and rights. the valuable legacy and achievements in the field of gender equality and women's rights, which the european parliament has also been credited with since its first president and women's rights campaigner simone veil, are not self-evident and safe from the far-right agenda. the latter exploits recurrent crises and major pan-european challenges such as demographic change and population ageing to attack gender equality and reproductive autonomy. in the light of these dangerous attacks on fundamental european values and civilizational achievements, i welcome the announcement by the french presidency of the council of the eu of concrete initiatives to combat discrimination and inequality against women, headed by the inclusion of the right to abortion in the eu charter of fundamental rights. i expect the european parliament, with its new president, to be at the forefront of these efforts, in line with its progressive positions on sexual and reproductive health and rights, which we have reaffirmed in this mandate.
mr president, the european union must be an effective international political actor, capable of defending its interests and values. to achieve this we need a strong and determined foreign and security policy, including defence policy. but this requires the political will and cohesion of the member states. soft power is not enough. the fukuyama dream has come to an end, and the reality of a multipolar, divided world has been imposed, now threatened, among other things, by putin's unilateral, irredentist approach. georgia, libya, the war in syria, the unstoppable rise of china, crimea, the nato summit in cardiff, the trump administration, the withdrawal from afghanistan and now ukraine are some recent sites in the evolution of the international community. the diagnosis, very clear. the external and defence dimension of the union must be strengthened. this is the key message in the reports we are debating today. i congratulate the rapporteurs. i welcome the fact that mr mcallister included the creation of a transatlantic political council for the coordination of foreign policy with the united states, an indispensable partner for europeans. i would also stress the priority given to the neighbourhood policy, where, in my view, the credibility of our external action is at stake. and i am also grateful that relations with latin america occupy a prominent place in mr mcallister's report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have read with great interest the reports on our foreign and security policy, and i think they capture the heart of the matter: the union is an economic power but is not yet able to assert its voice on the geopolitical level. the effects are clear these days: we are witnessing the risk of war on our eastern flank without the proper diplomatic and security tools and means to act or react. but what we have to do is clear: the european council has also called for the establishment of a european union with a common foreign policy, including not only trade, but also majority voting in the council and in foreign policy matters, and the creation of a common army, which will benefit from the capabilities, resources and experience of all the member states. but above all, we must bring foreign policy back to the 'community method' by enhancing the role of the european parliament.
mr president, this report advocates our common military capabilities, which is important for european security. however, to most effectively promote peace and security also beyond europe’s borders, this is not yet sufficient. in the report, there is only one paragraph on civilian missions, and it fails to recognise all the civilian measures that the eu engages in. instead, we need to invest more in peace building, supporting democracy, and human rights and human security. strengthening the eu’s arms export regime should be part of this as well. some of the eu member states are still selling arms that are used in violation of human rights or international law, such as in yemen. this is against the eu common position. if peace and security are truly our goals, we have to hold violating countries responsible with appropriate sanctions. we must be consistent with our demands and actions for peace. enhanced military cooperation to strengthen our own security and defence is welcomed and important. but civilian elements are also critical to achieve sustainable peace in these turbulent times, when there is a threat that some countries might be more willing to challenge international law and order. we have to stand up for peace and our own values.
madam president! my two colleagues, the honourable foreign ministers waszczykowski and sikorski, were somewhat critical of this report and at the same time agreed, which is rare for them. i would like to commend these two reports for their realism. for me, it's an expression of growing realism. one element of this realism is that both reports acknowledge that nato remains the main guarantor of security on the continent. our efforts in the area of the common security and defence policy, including the planning of priorities in the strategic compass, should therefore be consistent with the work of the north atlantic alliance. another manifestation of realism - which should be particularly appreciated in this parliament - is the naming of the situation on the polish-belarusian border and the condemnation of the lukashenka regime for hybrid attacks against poland and the whole union and the instrumental use of people for political purposes. i am concerned, however, that the eu's realism always comes only in times of obvious crisis. is our security and defence policy so reactive that we cannot assess the scale of the threats and properly identify their nature? if the voices warning of the threat from russia had been taken seriously, the situation we have today would not be as serious, and we should take that into account as well.
madam president, first i want to congratulate david mcallister, nathalie loiseau and arnaud danjean on this excellent report and everything that we should do in foreign affairs policy, security, stability and the global role of a european union. dear high representative, i will not spend this minute giving lectures. i would just like to thank you for calling three leaders in bosnia and herzegovina a few days ago, milorad dodik, bakir izetbegović and dragan čović and try to make some sense of the dayton peace agreement. croatia has a crucial role as a frontier country. this is our peace and stability issue. i saw the paper that is circulating around saying that some other third countries should play some role – turkey, serbia or whoever. i think, dear high representative, in order to make things straight and to have an equidistant approach to this issue, you have finally to bring back the dayton peace agreement to its origins – and three people have to have a stake in this state. and please do your best because while we are resolving the crisis in ukraine, another crisis is just going to happen if you don’t take on your responsibility.
madam president, protecting the sovereign rights of our country is our top priority. that is why today the greek parliament approved a high-cost armament program with the french government. in 2022, greece has the highest defence spending in the union. it is inconceivable, however, that at a time when the greek people are financing these programmes with hard work and sacrifice, there should be european states which continue to arm turkey and strengthen its claims. it is a matter of solidarity for the council to decide to impose an arms embargo on turkey, as we voted for a year ago in parliament. the absence of a genuine common european defence and security policy places an unimaginable burden on greece with responsibilities that we should all be shouldering together, with the result that resources are being spent that we could save and use in other sectors of the economy and particularly in improving our welfare state. the protection of the greek borders is not only a greek issue, it is also a european issue; and initiatives like pesco and the european defence fund must move forward immediately if we are to have stability in the wider region.
madam president, over the last thirty years we have been carrying out mainly stabilisation or peacekeeping missions, in short, petersberg missions. the build-up of russian troops on the ukrainian border is a warning to us not to neglect or to neglect the defence of our own territory. nathalie loiseau's report, with unusual mastery and precision, lists everything that needs to be done. once again, we know what needs to be done, so let's get ready to take on this task. kabul and ukraine are the latest warning signs that things can no longer remain as they are. moreover - and this is very good - public opinion is in line with our speeches on effective european defence. i would even say that public opinion is ahead of politics, as all the polls on european security and defence show. as bernard guetta just reminded us in this gallery a few moments ago, putin has something to do with it. since the charlemagne prize is awarded to persons who have done much to promote european unity, i would suggest that he should be awarded the charlemagne prize this year!
the honorable chairwoman. the european union needs a more credible and, above all, a more unified foreign and security policy. we live in a time of great power competition, and the european union, if it is to become a geopolitical actor, must adapt to it. we must ask ourselves honestly what kind of common foreign and security policy we want and, above all, how we will define and define it so that it reflects the interests of both the member states and the european union as a whole. crises like the one in ukraine are becoming the norm. we therefore need to strengthen the ambitions set out in the strategic compass in order to preserve the existing european security architecture. the european union therefore needs not only unity but also its own credible military capability. this is not a replacement for nato, but a european pillar that will complement and strengthen nato's capabilities, while at the same time providing the european union with autonomy in the military and security fields where and when needed. thank you so much.
madam president, ukraine is an independent and a sovereign state, a free european nation that should decide its future itself. so our message today to our friends in ukraine is that europe is ready to help, from arms to funds. it must be clear who are the true friends of a free ukraine and that the europeans’ doors are open. i still hope for a diplomatic solution. however, if russia acts, we as europe must be ready to respond. these sanctions must hit hard, not only the economic ones, but also the oligarchs and corrupt officials in russia. more than anything, we must show our solidarity with ukraine. ukraine needs strong allies in these difficult times. glory to ukraine.
the commission has already done so. are we aware that every year we are using tens of billions of euros from our gas purchases to finance the putin regime, indirectly co-financing the military advance on the ukrainian border? if you do not understand that gas is not only a climate policy problem, but also a security policy problem, you have not done your homework. the commission has recognised this and is looking for alternative solutions to europe's gas supply. in the medium or long term, we will have to phase out gas - not just for climate policy reasons, but also for security reasons. the fact that orbán is now building a nuclear power station in paks ii with russian money and technology - which is on an earthquake line - is not only an environmental problem, but also a security problem. here the interests of europeans and the interests of hungarians are being sold to the russian regime of vladimir putin. last but not least, anyone who fails to see that the taxonomy that is supposed to include gas in a green label for private investment only increases our dependence on it has failed to see the seriousness of the situation.
madam president, the situation on the eu’s eastern borders, especially at the ukrainian border, is far from being resolved. let’s not get fooled by the potemkin retreat of his troops that putin is or is not staging while we are speaking. let’s not be fooled while the online networks of ukraine’s defence ministry and two banks are knocked out by cyber-attacks. this is not a coincidence, and my colleague, riho terras, has highlighted this. putin couldn’t care less about an economic crash in his country when the situation of instability allows him to maintain and extend his power grab elsewhere. on our side, we need to support ukrainians wherever we can. therefore i more than welcome the macro-financial assistance we granted this week to ukraine. but the current crisis also cruelly highlights, once again, our weakness when it comes to speaking with one single voice in foreign policy. did macron, scholz or bettel convey the same message to putin? i strongly doubt this. so when do we get, once and for all, rid of unanimity in foreign policy? dear executive vice-president, how are you planning to speed up the development of pesco (permanent structured cooperation) to better be prepared for the next crisis that will inescapably come down the road? the success of these projects will be the precondition to be taken seriously on the international stage. putin is trying to divide the west to better reign – no doubt about that. but this should be our chance and our encouragement to unite. putin’s worst case scenario is a united west. let’s not get fooled. let’s stick together.
respected ! the crisis on the ukrainian-russian border proves that we live in an unpredictable world of uncompromising competition, in which the use of force is unfortunately becoming a reality. the current crisis is not only determining the future of ukraine, but it is also breaking the shackles of the future of the european security architecture that has ensured relative peace and stability in europe for the last 30 years and is rooted in the difficult negotiations during and after the cold war. we must realise that these are tectonic shifts in the european security architecture, and that they are a process that has been underway for some time and will continue. unfortunately, it is very likely to be in the series of crises that we are witnessing and will continue to witness in the wider european area. it will therefore be crucial for the us, nato and the eu to recognise that this process will require unity, an unwavering commitment to core democratic values, patience and determination, perseverance and a great deal of wisdom on our part. why would you do that? we are facing a challenging geopolitical game that we can overcome not only with diplomatic skill and military determination, but also with a clear commitment to democracy. the european union must strengthen not only its military but also its energy, raw materials and technological sovereignty.
in writing. the european union, in the eyes of many, starts with economic integration, the free movement of people, services, goods and capital. but the european union is not just that. it also includes areas such as health, social security, environmental protection. but we must not forget that the european union was originally a project of peace. the deepening of the european idea of peace is a key factor filling and healing the wounds caused by decades of armed conflicts in the first half of the twentieth century in which european countries were involved. it is now, in these difficult times in which we live, that we must, above all as european politicians, remember the european project of peace and not bring division into people's daily lives. politics must show maturity, clarity and the will not to allow historical divisions to be revived and to cause division among people. it is european politicians who, in the light of the legacy of european integration, have a special responsibility to defuse new tensions and to insist on the peaceful settlement of disputes. the response to the threat of arms must not be the threat of force, but an invitation and the ability to sit at the negotiating table. it is never too late, and it will never be too late, for the european union to show and prove that peace and good neighbourliness are something it carries at its core.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members of the parliament. more than one hundred took part in this debate this afternoon. i have listened carefully and i would like to thank you all for your commitments, for your strong solidarity, also for your good advice for the steps forward. i would like to respond to some of the issues being raised. all who are fleeing from the war in ukraine are being welcomed in the european union, no matter their origin. the commission has set up the solidarity platform that is part of the temporary protection directive. that is where we, together with member states, see where are our reception capacities, where different member states can step in and give support so that it is not only the member states on the first entry that are doing most. but, having said that, we have to thank poland, romania, hungary and slovakia for what they are doing. we have to thank the citizens, the volunteers, the ngos, the border guards, the police and that the national, local, and regional authorities, and the governments; also the companies that are stepping up to give jobs to these refugees who are now coming. it is necessary that we can step up when it comes to funding, better protection of children, and there are different kinds of additional things that we need to do. many of you have raised the need to make progress now on the pact. it is really necessary for us to have a common european asylum and migration system and we have a new momentum under this french council presidency. let us use this new unprecedented situation with this unprecedented unity in the council to act in solidarity, to also make progress on the pact on migration and asylum. unfortunately, things are going to get worse. putin will continue to kill people, bomb people, destroy people, destroy the cities. more people will flee. we are facing a great test. i count on you in parliament to be able to face that. we are going to have to take unprecedented actions, make unprecedented funding, work at unprecedented speed and show unprecedented solidarity. it is going to be needed. i count on your support on that. thank you all for your contributions to this debate.
acting president of the council. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all those who did their best to support people who fled war in the first days of the crisis. we all commit ourselves to continue this work. we also express our full solidarity with the government and people of ukraine. we must not forget that we must show solidarity with the first-mover states: poland, hungary, romania, slovakia, but also moldova, know that they can count on the european union. we have taken into account the request of parliament's libe committee for a common roadmap on asylum. the presidency proposed a gradual approach to the asylum and immigration pact, moving the council forward on the most consensual issues in order to create the advanced conditions for combining responsibility and solidarity in asylum and migration matters. we hope, with the european parliament, to make progress in the coming weeks. you can be sure that we will continue to make progress on this matter in the council.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. the aggression of russia is a barbarity which has awakened political europe and has made the union act quickly, unitedly and in solidarity, breaking dogmas and taboos. because, in the face of dictatorship, european democracy will win. for the spanish socialists, the eu must be a land of welcome without borders, welcoming all refugees in solidarity, without discrimination, whatever their sex, race or religion. the activation of the temporary protection directive is a huge step forward in protecting the ukrainian population and in particular women and children. but we must ensure a fair distribution of refugees by providing relief to the frontline countries, as well as binding resettlement programmes coordinated by the european commission. finally, we socialists want special protection measures to be introduced to prevent women and girls from falling into the hands of human traffickers.
in writing. dear prime minister, commission president, colleagues, the kremlin regime has returned to war in europe after decades of protected and nurtured peace. a war to destroy the ukrainian state and its people's right to choose the future of their country and their people. a war that kills innocent people every day. in the last four weeks, we have seen the largest influx of refugees since world war ii. already, some three million ukrainians have fled to europe, and unless this senseless war is stopped, the number of refugees will be unpredictable. we must therefore make serious preparations to provide the ukrainians with all the assistance they need. we must understand that the emergency situation requires a solidarity and urgent response to provide people forced to leave their country with a safe home and a chance to survive this nightmare. while we can only welcome the fact that the eu has come together and activated the temporary protection directive for the first time, we must continue to prepare for and mobilise eu funding to accommodate even greater flows of war refugees.
in writing. ensuring the protection of children in war is a duty of the belligerents and the international community. this is defined in the fourth geneva convention and the relevant protocols, and the implementation of these obligations is also provided for in the convention on the rights of the child. with my colleagues in the european parliament, who are active in the intergroup on children's rights, we are all too aware of the situation of children in war, who are subjected to even greater mental distress as a result of experiencing armed conflict and fleeing the horrors of war. since the invasion of ukraine began, nearly two million people have fled the country, mostly women and children. in view of the fact that we believe that the protection of children in armed conflict must be a priority for the union, we members of the intergroup on the rights of the child addressed a request to the ministers responsible for justice and home affairs before the ministerial conference on 3 and 4 march to take action as soon as possible. in particular, we addressed the need to prioritise child protection procedures and public services, including asylum, legal services, education, health and psychosocial support. we also need to ensure the establishment of humanitarian corridors. as many children arrive unaccompanied by their parents, we also addressed the ministers on the need for a special mechanism for the relocation of unaccompanied children. in the light of developments, i also welcome the activation of the temporary protection order, which can address the abovementioned calls in concrete terms.
in writing. over 2 million people have left ukraine since the war began, a number that is set to grow rapidly. almost half are minors, many unaccompanied: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded actions in the field of education and training, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded actions in the field of education and training. and there are almost 100,000 children who live in institutions in ukraine because they are orphans or abandoned. all these children must be given the utmost protection. the implementation for the first time of the temporary protection directive, which contains many specific provisions for minors, in particular unaccompanied minors, is an important first step. priority access to protection, assistance and legal protection should now be ensured for all children from ukraine; ensure that they are accommodated in facilities adapted to their needs, receive health care, psychological support and have access to educational services; activate corridors to allow them to leave conflict zones quickly and safely; ensure that the principle of the best interests of the child is respected at all times. the eu and its member states are finally showing solidarity with speed and compactness: it is for the most vulnerable in particular that this commitment must continue.
in writing. russia's brutal and unjustified aggression against ukraine has forced huge numbers of ukrainian citizens to immediately leave their homes in order to save their lives. since then, i have been regularly at border crossings, and each time i see the same terrifying image of thousands of mostly women and children, often carrying only a small suitcase with what seemed to be the most important thing when they left home or just what was at hand. i'm proud of our citizens, as i see them open their homes and hearts to them and try to ease their cruel times. however, support should come primarily from above, and therefore systemic, comprehensive and immediate eu assistance is needed. we must provide refugees with support in the form of shelter and medical and psychological care. it is therefore necessary to ensure that these persons can resume their normal lives and are able to take up legal employment and their children return to school until they can return home. i am pleased that the commission has announced the care programme to help people fleeing the war in ukraine and to support their host countries and border regions. but there is no doubt that more of this aid will be needed, and i call for maximum effort and solidarity in this unprecedented humanitarian crisis.
in writing. europe is facing a refugee crisis not seen since the second world war as a result of the russian-ukrainian war. according to the latest un figures, the number of ukrainian citizens forced to flee has now exceeded one million. after poland, hungary is the second country to receive the most people. so far, 190,000 refugees have arrived in my country. providing for the masses of desperate and destitute women and children is an unprecedented challenge, which has been met in an organised and effective manner by the close and effective cooperation of citizens and leaders of border communities, humanitarian organisations, churches and the government. i would like to reiterate that the hungarian government has accepted one of the largest humanitarian packages of all time and has set up a humanitarian council to provide aid. the state cooperates closely with church organizations and the hungarian red cross. under the slogan "transcarpathia bridge", the government launched a special relief campaign for those who had to stay in ukraine, in the transcarpathian region. hungary, of course, voted for the historic eu proposal to give immediate, automatic protection to refugees from ukraine. hungary has helped a total of 4900 third-country nationals concerned to return home by means of exemption flights. i am pleased that the vice-president of the european commission, margaritis schinas, was also convinced of our work on behalf of refugees and recognised it at a high level. hungary is doing what every country should do. he's taking in the refugees.
in writing. the aggression of russia is a barbarity which has awakened political europe and has made the union act quickly, unitedly and in solidarity, breaking dogmas and taboos. because, in the face of dictatorship, european democracy will win. for the spanish socialists, the eu must be a land of welcome without borders, welcoming all refugees in solidarity, without discrimination, whatever their sex, race or religion. the activation of the temporary protection directive is a huge step forward in protecting the ukrainian population and in particular women and children. but we must ensure a fair distribution of refugees by providing relief to the frontline countries, as well as binding resettlement programmes coordinated by the european commission. finally, we socialists want special protection measures to be introduced to prevent women and girls from falling into the hands of human traffickers.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina (2022/2576 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members of parliament, 30 years after the bloody break—up of yugoslavia, with the russian invasion in ukraine, war is back on european soil. once again, we are witnessing extreme human suffering, with many lives lost and millions fleeing ukraine. the last weeks and the changing geopolitical constellations have brought the need for peace back on to the top of our agenda. this also means that the stability and security of the western balkans has never been so important as it is today. the debate on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina is very timely. i met bosnia and herzegovina’s political leadership for the first time in 2020. we discussed what needed to be done for the candidate status for that country. the agreement on the election in mostar, after 12 years of blockage, was a breakthrough and gave us fresh impetus after years of standstill. unfortunately, 2021 was a lost year for bosnia and herzegovina. although it was not an election year, we have seen no real progress on the eu path and on the implementation of the 14 key priorities. indeed, we have seen growing political divisions throughout the country at different levels. these divisions were aggravated even further with the non-recognition of the new high representative and with the boycotting of state institutions. all of this is negatively affecting not just bosnia and herzegovina on its eu path, but also the everyday life of the people and businesses. we need constructive dialogue and political will from all sides to move forward on the eu path. this is all the more important in the changed international context following russia’s war on ukraine. these events have in fact confirmed bosnia and herzegovina’s european commitment. the country has aligned with the eu statements and decisions on ukraine, which we very much welcome. a lot of hope and efforts have been put in the ongoing talks on the electoral and constitutional reform. but the solution is not there yet. it should be found urgently and without any further delay. fair, free and inclusive elections must take place in october, as scheduled. the minister of finance needs swiftly to put the required budget at the disposal of the central electoral commission to organise the electoral procedures. the continued boycott of decision-making at different levels – presidency and council of ministers – could jeopardise significant investments, including investments coming from the economic and investment plan. as i have stressed several times to the representatives of republika srpska, there is a need for urgent steps to de-escalate tensions, to avoid further rhetoric and to ensure the swift return to state institutions and ensure their full functioning. the impact is already visible. two weeks ago, we have launched a eur 3.2 billion investment package to support 21 transport, digital, climate and energy connectivity projects in the western balkans. the package includes the investment projects submitted by bosnia and herzegovina, of which two – of road and rail connections along corridor vc – are on the territory of the republika srpska. the commission intends to sign the respective contribution agreements for these two investments – worth eur 600 million, only after the return to the full functioning of state institutions. bosnia and herzegovina is key for the future of the western balkans. the region’s future is in the european union. instead of in-fighting, the country should focus on the positive and constructive european agenda. this is the agenda with real gains and real benefits for everyone. it is the agenda that brings prosperity, stability and peace long term, and this is the agenda on which we need to work together.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in the shadow of the new major conflict in europe, the aggression of russia, we have repeatedly heard that this is the most dramatic situation in europe since the second world war. we cannot, and we should not, compare the tragic suffering caused by different conflicts. but neither should we forget the much more recent drama of the balkan wars of the 90s. in 1995, a difficult agreement was reached in dayton, which returned peace to bosnia and herzegovina. today, that agreement is under threat, a victim of secessionist rhetoric and movements intransigent political blockades and foreign and hostile interference. peace, stability and the very integrity of the country are at stake, and we cannot allow the present conflict between russia and ukraine to interfere in this region. a range of measures is therefore required, starting with the application of sanctions to the perpetrators of these manifestly unconstitutional activities. the council has the mechanisms and the example of the united states, all that is needed is the political will. in addition to individual sanctions, the commission must also restrict access to union funds until the blockage of central institutions and unconstitutional movements has ceased.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in bosnia and herzegovina, serb presidential member milorad dodik and his supporting forces are boycotting the state institutions. they are working specifically on the unconstitutional transfer of powers and institutions to the republika srpska entity. this will lead to the destruction of the state as a whole. dodik rejects the condemnation of the russian war of aggression made by bosnian state institutions. he argued for a supposedly neutral position, which means nothing other than agreeing to putin’s war. dodik is using the war in ukraine to further push his pro—russian policies and threats to break up bosnia and herzegovina. he is obviously collaborating with moscow, in whose interests it is to destabilise bosnia and herzegovina. in the negotiations surrounding the electoral law, the nationalist hdz party is making demands based on an alleged lack of the so—called legitimate representation. this would lead to a further ethnic cementing of the undemocratic electoral law. it is high time for the eu to sanction politically and financially dodik and his forces to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of bosnia and herzegovina. in this regard, the eu must support civil society much more than it has done so far.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, what bosnia needs today is understanding and, above all, a message of hope in a better, more prosperous european future. european security depends on peace and stability in our neighbourhood. as you can see in ukraine, there is a thin line between peace and war. bosnia and herzegovina is in our close neighbourhood and it needs our attention. it needs our support. it is threatened by the blockade of the state institutions, and if that is not enough, it is facing a threat of secessionism inspired by a never truly and fully cleared historical burden, which reflects itself in genocide denial. all in bosnia need to come to terms with the past, as painful as it might be, but without an understanding of the past, there is no hope of the future, no hope of overcoming the nightmares of the past. to overcome all this, we need to send a very clear and united eu message. there will be no return to the past for those who still nurture nationalistic fantasies of the past, like mr dodik and other political leaders. we need to impose a set of sanctions to deter them from further destabilisation of the country. sanctions need to be targeted so they will not affect the ordinary people of republika srpska or bosnia in general, but only those who wish for their narrow-minded, political, frequently corrupt-linked aims to tear apart the country and cause new bloodshed. sending additional troops from eufor is part of the effort, but we need to do more. we need to seriously reconsider giving bosnia membership candidate country status, which needs to be followed by a strong commitment by the eu to help bosnia to do its homework. it needs to make a set of deep and demanding reforms, starting with the change of the electoral law in line with the judgment of the european court of human rights, followed by credible implementation of the reforms listed in the commission’s 14—point plan and all other necessary and needed reforms which will enable the country to firmly set its european path. bosnia needs a sign of hope which will empower all those political forces which believe in a modern, democratic, civic and – above all – european bosnia.
mr president, i welcome the positioning of bosnia herzegovina with regard to the russian military aggression against ukraine, and i do that also as a standing rapporteur on ukraine. i think it is no surprise, however, that milorad dodik takes an opposite position. but we all know that russia cannot deliver anything positive abroad, neither to ukraine nor to bosnia herzegovina, or elsewhere. so i strongly urge everyone not to believe that a tactical siding with dodik would profit the country as a whole or any particular grouping in the country. i think that, and that was the clear message from the commission for which i am grateful, that the republika srpska and dodik have to return to the institutions and make them work. therefore, i welcome the conditionality that has been set up by the commission to implement the foreseen projects in the republika srpska, which is eur 600 million, only if this actually takes place. moreover, with regard to the elections in october, i also welcome your position to insist that the elections take place in an appropriate set-up and also that the financial means that are required are put in the budget and used for that, in order that something can take place where the people have the right to vote, and it is not about the political parties and their infighting that has contributed to the stalemate.
mr. chairman, the increasingly uncertain political situation in bosnia and herzegovina has been further complicated by the russian aggression against ukraine. in a country where there is no consensus on fundamental social, economic and political issues, in parts of which both genocide and putin's aggression are officially denied, there remains too much room for politicianship and the use of a dysfunctional system for personal and group interests. chronic blockades are the best indicator that progress in bosnia and herzegovina cannot be without consensus, however, consensus is built on trust, not bad calculations. especially not by committing to policies that are condemned and increasingly sanctioned by the civilized world. on the other hand, overriding the will of one of the constituent peoples is a direct abuse of a system that clearly does not provide protection of constitutional rights for all. it is therefore not viable to call on bosnia and herzegovina to respect the judgments of european courts such as the sejdić-finci judgment without at the same time asking for respect and judgment of bih courts. and it was the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina that declared that the existing electoral practices deviate from the constitution. the commission has also found that the measures in question are in line with the principles of the union state aid rules. the demographic statistics reflect the views of citizens on the future. last year alone, 170,000 citizens left bosnia and herzegovina, and since 2013, almost half a million. it's mostly people in the most productive periods of their lives. the eu has also committed to supporting the implementation of the eu strategy for bih, which aims to strengthen the eu's capacity to respond to emerging challenges and to strengthen the eu's capacity to respond to emerging challenges. bosnia and herzegovina is certainly a place in the european union. every step along the way should be supported, but also react to dangerous mishaps.
mr president, thank you so much for your clear message on putting a conditionality under these difficult circumstances. i think we should act. we should act now. it’s time for the eu to send a very clear signal. first, we must strongly condemn the divisive ethno-nationalistic rhetoric. secondly, we must strongly condemn moves to undermine state institutions. and thirdly, we must be prepared to issue sanctions and immediate restrictive measures should be taken on board if the situation further escalates. the eu must step up and increase its focus on events in bosnia and herzegovina, and we must clearly demonstrate our collective commitment towards the country’s european and euro-atlantic aspirations. this is our opportunity to demonstrate the importance of our european values and democracy. we must ensure that the october elections are held, that the transparency of the vote is ensured and their results are implemented. i firmly believe the country’s future is within the european union, so we must make sure that the hard-earned progress is not lost and we should give the country a clear and visible path towards european union and grant them candidate status. this will be decisive for the political future of bosnia herzegovina, and not only for them, but for the region. eu and bosnia-herzegovina; zaedno i tochka - they go together.
i now come to the announcement of the results of the voting. (the president declared the results of the vote)
we shall now continue our debate on the commission statement (2022/2576 (rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the tragic history of bosnia and herzegovina is not long in the past, and the dramatic developments in ukraine bring back painful memories. putin's war of aggression against ukraine is an attack on all of europe and on our system of values, on our peaceful order. in the western balkans, too, putin wants to reduce european influence. his strongest ally in bosnia and herzegovina is milorad dodik, whom he supports politically, economically and even militarily. we have been calling for sanctions against this ethno-nationalist for a long time. some countries have blocked this so far and instead have provided the serbian leader with money. this is outrageous! the european commission's policy of appeasement is also unsuccessful, because, mr várhelyi, in the end this policy does the exact opposite: it only strengthens the dodiks and the putins, who themselves want nothing to do with democratic values. all she cares about is power and money. they are corrupt and driven by an aggressive nationalism. instead of talking to dodik, he needs to be suspended. the people of bosnia and herzegovina want peace and security and a future for themselves and their children. and they want democracy, they want peace and security and a future for themselves. mr putin and his ilk fear democracy most of all. and rightly so! let us strengthen the democratic forces and the rule of law in bosnia and herzegovina and throughout the western balkans!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one month before the 30th anniversary of its independence, bosnia-herzegovina is going through its worst political crisis since the end of the balkan war. old, painful wounds are bleeding again. a plaque was even placed in vračar to commemorate war criminal and genocidal ratko mladić. the european union has expressed its utmost outrage at the situation, but it is not enough to threaten harsh sanctions and to send 500 soldiers to avert the spiral of interethnic tension, to further avert the risk that dodik will ride the economic and social discontent into nationalist sentiments, while already many pro-russian volunteers are leaving the region for ukraine. we need to be more and more directly involved, with more investment, in order to counter a crisis which, apart from its ethnic aspects, also has very clear economic implications. in order to protect the very important prospect of european integration, the very architecture of the bosnian state must be thoroughly reviewed, together with the parties directly concerned, and the limits imposed by thirty years of perpetual crisis and instability must be overcome. otherwise it will be all too easy for moscow to continue its work of destabilising the country, fuelling yet another proxy war and opening a second front in the heart of europe.
mr president, today once again we are discussing the situation in bosnia and herzegovina. this time it is the security context. for me, this discussion should be a public appeal to the politicians responsible to negotiate a solution to the real problem that the country is facing on the eve of its elections. the people, and not the international community, should be able to sanction politicians with their votes. in order to allow the people to make politicians responsible for their policies of the last four years, including war rhetoric, separatist rhetoric and unitarist rhetoric, we should give them the only possible tool invented by democratic society: a functioning electoral law reformed in accordance with constitutional and international court decisions. for 12 years, the citizens of emblematic mostar did not have the privilege to elect their officials due to the hesitance from the international community’s side to push for a solution. now, mostar is a success case. let us make bosnia and herzegovina and its electoral law a success and give the people a chance to use their power – that they deserve – to decide, as every vote counts.
the chairman. this is the 21st century. i know you know, but you also know that autocrats and democracy destroyers, who threaten peace and human freedoms, still exist. in the 21st century, even here on european soil. thirty years after the war in bosnia and herzegovina, milorad dodik is destroying the state and its institutions. he denies genocide. as if what people have already experienced there isn't enough. thirty years after the war in bosnia and herzegovina, the war in ukraine begins. vladimir putin is a criminal, and rightly so. because that's exactly what it is. but what is dodo? how can anyone not condemn his actions? does the fact that some of the parties are connected to him make him any less of a bad guy? the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina deserve a better life, too, you know, and leaders who care. we must support them, the citizens, in their journey to the european union. we must oppose, with equal force, all autocrats and criminals, because the hypocrisy of the european union in this context has long been too much. even in our own ranks. the methods are very similar, i'm afraid.
mr president, the imperialist war in ukraine is inextricably linked to the energy rivalries of the monopolies. energy efficiency for the people was already at a record high before the war, thanks to the european union and the greek governments' strategy for the green transition, the liberalisation of energy, the emissions trading. the european union has also been able to make a significant contribution to the development of the energy sector in the community. the acceleration of the decoupling from russian natural gas and the choice of liquefied natural gas routes from the united states, which promote the profitability of greek shipowners and the plans for the geostrategic upgrading of the greek bourgeoisie as a gateway to the western balkans and european markets, portend for the people a lasting energy poverty and involvement in great risks. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the european commission on the publication of repower eu. the current energy price crisis, exacerbated by the russian invasion of ukraine, poses two major challenges. the first concerns the strategic autonomy of the european union. we need to diversify the countries of origin and transit for the gas we import. interconnections are very important and i would like to recall the words of vice-president timmermans who yesterday in this parliament said that this issue will be given priority, namely the links between portugal and spain and the rest of europe. the second aspect is the protection of consumers, those who are at immediate risk of energy poverty, but also the middle class and businesses, small and mediumsized enterprises, energy-intensive sectors such as ceramics and cement, to name just a few, but also agriculture and fisheries, which are already suffering the consequences of energy prices. in this respect, i would ask the commission to take concrete and immediate measures and to give the member states guidance in the package announced today to protect citizens and businesses in europe.
respected ! the only way to achieve strategic autonomy, and in this context energy autonomy, in the european union is to achieve a green transition. in the short term, we can mitigate vulnerability by diversifying resources, but we have to remember, in doing so, we have to be careful not to get into new dependencies, like we saw in the 1970s with the oil embargo. the long-term solution, of course, is simply to switch to renewable energy. we need to invest in new technologies, in solar, wind, water technologies, and where necessary and there is social consensus, also a debate on the role of nuclear energy. but we can't just focus on the models of the past, just on the generation of electricity. we also need to focus on other technologies, such as geothermal technology, which allows us to heat and, increasingly importantly, cool our homes, which are increasingly vulnerable to heat waves. but we must not forget all those who have been affected by the energy drain. we need to help all of these immediately and effectively, while also systematically addressing the issue of energy poverty, which will not disappear with the green transition.
thank you for your words, mr president, and thank you, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to thank mrs vind and all those involved for a very well-written report. the european parliament remains the champion of all workers and insists on the vision of zero work-related accidents and illnesses. in fact, the pandemic has shown us how important key occupations are, yet they are undervalued, underpaid and under poor working conditions. this is particularly the reality for healthcare workers who cannot work from home. in the long-term care sector alone, there are 6.3 million, 81% of whom are women, whose work is subsidised, unpredictable, shiftwork and subject to inadequate standards. the large numbers of sick carers show disproportionate exposure to infections, hazardous work environments and substances. caring for others and helping others is both psychologically and physically demanding, and it is not taboo that the caregivers often take on the needs of the caregivers. the profession itself is beautiful and fulfilling, as the surveys show, but inadequate working conditions are a key reason for large and sudden departures from the sector, a decline in the quality of public services and an increase in the need for informal care. as rapporteur for care in the committee on employment and social affairs, i will be calling on the commission to develop an ambitious framework of solutions to improve pay and working conditions in this sector, with particular regard to the gender dimension, when preparing the european strategy for care. this, together with investments in public care services in this area, would be the first and minimum step towards a europe that provides all generations with accessible, comprehensive and quality care whenever they need it.
mr. president, please! mr president, thank you for your words, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. transparency is the foundation of european democracy. this principle gives rise to the right of european citizens to have access to documents of the european institutions, which is enshrined both in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in the charter of fundamental rights. in this context, i would particularly highlight access to environmental migration. because the european union is obliged to ensure this under international law, as a party to the aarhus convention. environmental and climate security are also essential elements of human security today, because of the war in ukraine, and therefore strengthening democratisation and transparency in environmental matters is also our contribution to respect for human rights. i therefore strongly support the revision of the public access regulation and thus the recommendation of the european ombudsman, as this represents a possible way for us to close the gap in our democratic order and the rule of law. if there is ever a time, it is here and now, when we must fight for our values, inside and out. if they do, we will exist together as the european union, or we will be no more.
mr. chairman, please! i thank the rapporteur, professor krasnodębski, and the other rapporteurs. this report is a compromise and it is absolutely acceptable today. let's remember, we're going to have green hydrogen. that's the most important thing. renewable energy, the european green deal are our goals. but today we also have another goal - a dramatic one that we did not anticipate - to immediately cut off our fossil fuels from russia. but that requires a different attitude to our actions for the time being. let's keep that in mind. in addition, i am asking the european commission to prepare - as soon as possible so that we can build a common market, so that we have security of supply and lower energy tariffs - lists of missing gas storage facilities, missing lng terminals, interconnectors between countries. we also need simplified procedures for investments in this case, financial support from the union and a clear signal to the producers of vessels carrying liquid methane. ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure the security of our supplies for today and cut off our supply of russian fuel! the green way is our great future and we will never forget it.
(speech begins with the microphone off) ... the ten-t must provide infrastructure that will provide sufficient amounts of energy for all european consumers, both households, which are particularly vulnerable in the circumstances, and industry. in doing so, we must ensure that this energy is affordable for industry and accessible to households. of course, the so-called projects of common interest, or pcs, are key. these must be geared towards achieving the climate objectives set as well as to ensuring a reliable supply. but in this context, we cannot allow the so-called interconnections that we need today in the short term to ensure energy security to become either an excuse or an excuse for not meeting the climate and sustainability goals we have set ourselves. this means that these projects, which are just beginning to emerge, must be technically scaled up with a view to adapting them to new, more environmentally friendly sources of energy.
in writing. the roma community is the largest ethnic minority in europe and is diverse, but it is accompanied by a weaker social and economic situation that exacerbates discrimination and social exclusion of its members. as our visit to the marginalised roma communities in slovakia has clearly shown, roma are systematically pushed into living in undignified, health-threatening conditions and poverty, not by choice, nor are they part of their culture. improving the situation of roma is a process that spans several generations. social inclusion starts with quality childcare accessible to all and the inclusion of children in education. this is not only the key to a better and more equal future for today's children, but also a positive factor for the employment, economic independence and social inclusion of their parents, especially women. the exchange of good practices and the integration of roma in the design of policies and measures at european, national, regional and local level, as well as the inclusion of roma in all of these, can help to improve the socioeconomic situation of roma. the roma in slovenia are indigenous to 20 municipalities, whose municipal councils include roma councillors and working bodies to monitor the situation of the roma community. consistency with the principle of 'nothing about roma without roma' is crucial to eradicating the stereotypes, prejudices and the resulting discrimination and intolerance that are all reprehensible and that we have unfortunately witnessed in this debate.
in writing. artificial intelligence is developing at an extraordinary speed and will affect all areas of our lives in the future, so the direction in which the development of this technology will go is crucial, and not least, who will control the operation and use of this technology. this is how we could summarise the main message of the final report of the european parliament's special committee on artificial intelligence in the digital age, which was adopted by meps at the may plenary session. the report sets out the recommendations and guidelines that the european union will need to follow if it is to catch up with the current leading technological superpowers china and the united states in the development of artificial intelligence. the areas where ai can improve our lives are vast, from combating climate change and faster and more accurate diagnoses in medicine, to improving labor standards and accelerating innovation. but we must also be aware that the development of new technologies brings with it new dangers. autocratic regimes are already using ai to control populations on a massive scale and systematically curtail human rights. it is therefore crucial that in the future the european union sets the regulatory framework for artificial intelligence, thereby ensuring that it is developed and used in accordance with european principles.
mr. president, please! respected, respected the air force is already facing the consequences of the aggression of the russian federation against ukraine. there's been an airspace closure. we're also looking for alternative and longer flight routes. all this has led to an increase in the cost of aviation on the one hand. on the other hand, the price of fuel has also risen, which unfortunately we are again importing from the russian federation. the burden of all these costs will be borne by european passengers, employees of the airline industry and related activities, and of course the environment. this will increase co2 emissions and air pollution. the key solution in aviation is therefore a green transition or transition, and we need to adopt a legislative framework at european level as soon as possible, and to do so, we also need to ensure sufficient financial resources to make the transition with the appropriate social dimension, which will be solidarity-based and fair, and which will ensure the development of sustainable aviation fuels and carbon-free aviation technologies. that's why i'm going to do my best as a member and a reporter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, espionage is a violation of our fundamental rights, whether it is carried out by companies or by states, which often amounts to the same thing. and we are rightly indignant when it is practised in our europe. the subject is serious and implies not spreading into sloppy language motivated by political hostility, rather than by the interests of europeans. because if you want to be serious about the strength of your convictions, i must remind you immediately that 80% of european computers are infected by a spyware called microsoft. if these actions constitute, as you say, systematic violations of the rule of law requiring heavy sanctions, remember the wiretaps carried out by the united states on european leaders. the commission has just concluded an agreement with the americans on the confidentiality of personal data. remember that the united arab emirates, morocco, israel used pegasus, but against them, where are the sanctions? we act against some states because we can reach them, and we lie down in front of others because we are dependent on them. our best response will therefore not be hypocritical retaliatory measures against just a few countries, but the digital emancipation of europe. as the experts will tell you, every electronic component from the software to the physical hardware can be trapped. so we need to develop secure, autonomous digital industries that allow us to equip ourselves with devices that are resistant to hacking and that don't voluntarily pass on our data. only then will we be better protected against attacks and stronger to respond.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the list of people in the european union who are being attacked by spyware such as pegasus is continuing to grow. it is a serious and alarming phenomenon, which does not spare political leaders, journalists and human rights defenders in the member states. the fundamental rights, democracy, the rule of law and personal security are therefore threatened. as we know, among those targeted are also high-level officials of the european commission, colleagues from the european parliament and their collaborators. i mean, no one can feel safe. the parliamentary committee of inquiry which was set up to investigate these activities has begun to examine the extent of involvement of european governments and other actors as well. the scenarios that are emerging require us to urgently regulate the surveillance industry for the use, sale, export of its technologies and services. we must identify the lack of transparency and accountability of companies and consumers, as my colleagues have asked many times before me. we must continue in this direction to implement measures to combat abuses, control mechanisms and instruments enabling citizens to defend themselves against violations of their rights.
respected chairman, respected, respected. the use of spy equipment is historically proven. the control over the use of these technologies has always been subject to parliamentary scrutiny, and what the pegasus case shows is that this parliamentary scrutiny has actually shown the vulnerability of our democracies, because it is this very parliamentary scrutiny that has somehow, you could say, been suspended either because of the anti-terrorism drive or because of various other political reasons. it emphasises the need to develop parliamentary oversight in particular, in addition to judicial protection itself. abuses, especially illegal ones, indicate authoritarian ambitions, which are manifested not only in the control of society, but in the totalitarian control of political life in individual countries. the european parliament's committee, which will examine all these uses - illegal uses and legal uses of this tool - has another mission. it has to look, first of all, at the business model that has been created, and where it shows that the private company that is the only one that has developed this equipment, the only one that knows what was collected, how it was collected, and most importantly, who was given what. i therefore believe that our committee will be able to set new standards for parliamentary scrutiny, particularly in the use of such new technologies.
mr president, dependency on russian energy has taught us above all that we need a single and well-functioning european energy market that is not dependent on a single supplier. therefore, as foreseen in repowereu, we need measures to diversify our energy sources. in no case should we replace one dependency with another, even if this means relying more on our own european resources, at least temporarily, and in some cases, especially in interconnections, investing in existing infrastructure. another measure is to speed up the transition to renewable sources, which is the only long-term measure for the european union's energy self-sufficiency. this means accelerating investment in new renewable sources, investment in energy efficiency and, above all, the creation - and this is our task, ladies and gentlemen - of a legislative and regulatory framework that will enable the eu to become carbon neutral and energy independent. the third set of measures is the need for systemic solutions to address energy poverty, where we need to protect our people from price shocks.
madam president, your honor, your honor. why are the aviation ets and the corsia international emissions trading scheme important? the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. the european union simply has to do more and respect its commitments under international law and the european union's own law. we have a compromise proposal on the table for a revision of the directive, which enjoys broad support in the committee on the environment and is an incentive for a fair green transition. it is a comprehensive package of measures: expanding the geographical scope, speeding up the abolition of free allowances, reducing emissions and an additional 35 billion from the ets to decarbonise the sector. in a time of unpredictable energy security, the particular challenge is to have sufficient supply and affordability of sustainable aviation fuels to directly decarbonise the sector effectively, and we therefore envisage incentives to develop this market and temporarily cover the price gap to fossil kerosene. a particular problem is the fact that only one third of the emissions are co2 emissions. two thirds of emissions are non-carbon emissions. in this area, the european parliament has a historic opportunity to take concrete political action after 15 years. as a supporter of multilateralism, i advocate the progressive development of international regimes. i expect the european union and its member states to engage in active climate diplomacy, both bilaterally and multilaterally, within the international civil aviation organisation, where they should seek to strengthen the provisions of corsie, an ambitious long-term plan to reduce global emissions and broad international cooperation. the corsia decision itself is technical in nature and i am against its politicization in the negotiations with the council. it is about whether the european union is capable of leading by example in the international community.
thank you very much. we have a specific item on the agenda on this before the vote and many colleagues will be given the floor to speak. so there are no comments on the minutes. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the s&d and id groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the pech committee has decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the report which constitutes the mandate for the negotiations is available on the plenary webpage and its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, thursday 23 june at midnight, that the decision to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament on the decision to enter into negotiations is made before the aforementioned deadline, the committee may start the negotiations.
i would also like to inform you that, together with the president of the council, i shall on thursday sign one act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. the title of the act will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents on 9 june pursuant to the rule 157, has been distributed. i have received one request for urgent procedure from the agri committee pursuant to rule 163, on the following legislative file: ‘exceptional temporary support under eafrd in response to the impact of russia’s invasion of ukraine’. the vote on this request will be taken today once the order of business is established. if adopted, the vote will be held on thursday. next, with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposal for changes to the final draft agenda. on wednesday, one round of political group speakers on the fit for 55 package is added before the vote on the reports by mr liese, mr casa and ms de lange, and mr chahim. as a consequence, the sitting is extended until 23.30. finally, on thursday, the vote on the objection pursuant to rule 112(2) and (3), ‘veklury – remdesivir’, is taken off the agenda due to its rejection in the envi committee. if there are no objections, these changes are approved.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would like to propose to you on behalf of the green group - and i know that this is supported quite widely in this house - an exchange, that is to say, replacing the debate scheduled for tomorrow at 9 a.m. on the relations of the russian government and diplomatic network with parties of the european far right and far left in the context of the war by statements from the council and the commission on national vetoes in the taxation of multinationals, and thus endangering the overall oecd agreement for which the european union is increasingly ridiculous, insofar as after one state, it is another state that vetoes for reasons that have nothing to do with the substance, but simply to block the functioning of the union. so i would like to see this debated in the house tomorrow morning at 9 a.m.
thank you very much mr lamberts. i have received the same request from the left and the s&d group. this is a request for council and commission statements on ‘national vetoes to undermine the global tax deal’ to be added as the second point in the morning on thursday. this would mean that the council and commission statements on ‘the relations of the russian government and diplomatic network with parties of the european extreme right and extreme left in the context of the war’ would be postponed, and this new debate would be wound up with a resolution that will be voted in july. i now put the request to the vote. (parliament approved the request)the debate will take place and what was previously foreseen will be postponed. the agenda is adopted and the order of business is thus established.
we now come to the vote on the request for urgent procedure from the agri committee on ‘exceptional temporary support under eafrd in response to the impact of russia’s invasion of ukraine’ (com(2022)0242 – c9-0185/2022 – 2022/0166(cod)). before the vote only the mover and one speaker against may be heard, along with the chair or rapporteur of the committee responsible. is there any member who would like to speak or shall we go directly to the vote? we shall go directly to the vote. (parliament agreed to the request for urgent procedure) the vote will be held tomorrow, thursday 23 june at 11.30. the deadline for tabling amendments is today, wednesday 22 june at 17.00. the deadline for tabling split and separate votes is today, wednesday, at 20.00.
the next item is the vote. we will have one round of political group speakers on the fit for 55 package concerning the reports by mr liese on the revision of the eu emissions trading system, mr casa and ms de lange on the social climate fund, and mr chahim on the carbon border adjustment mechanism. i have received three requests for points of order.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would like to say that you have exercised one of your prerogatives, namely the use of rule 183 to change the normal order of voting on the text on the european emission allowance market. this is your prerogative, but normally we vote on the most ambitious proposal first and then back off until we find a solution that has a majority. i can't question the legality of what you did. but after we talked last night, i read your message and i have a problem. the main argument you use is to say: there are three political groups representing a majority who tell me that they have an agreement. firstly, the first way to know that there is a majority is to vote. and i'm not saying this because i'm a big fan, because we're going to vote against it. on the contrary, i can already tell you that my group will vote for the compromise, because we think it is a much better compromise than the one we reached two weeks ago. but as far as procedure is concerned, we have a real problem, because if this becomes the general rule, then you are in fact depriving the political groups - pass me the expression - minorities, of any real right to political expression in this house.
just to come back to you on that point – and i will respond to the other colleagues later – to be clear, the first reading was not concluded.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would respectfully say to philippe lamberts, of course, that this is not a normal vote, in the sense that a lot of the amendments that are put forward now have already been voted on and rejected in the first vote that we undertook in the previous plenary. so, in that sense, i’m not that worried about setting a precedent, and i would therefore say that using rule 183(3) is justified –voting on the compromise amendment first – which will also allow us, dear colleagues, i hope, to speed up the vote that we have to undertake today.
madam president! i just wanted to say that i find the chairwoman's decision to be outrageous that in such an important vote, you're not allowing us to vote on amendments that you know are controversial. the chairwoman and some of the people in this room are just afraid of democracy. let's vote, let's vote on the amendments, as we should.
so colleagues, thank you for the points that you made. two weeks ago we took the decision in the plenary to refer the ets and the cbam files back to the envi committee. since 8 june, we – you – have worked hard to unblock the situation and we now have i think the shared responsibility to move forward on these important files and to start interinstitutional negotiations swiftly. and it is exactly for situations such as these that our rules of procedure rarely, but necessarily, foresee different options to facilitate votes. and i insist on the word ‘facilitate’. rule 183(3) gives us the tools that we need in this situation and it is the prerogative, but most of all the duty, of the president to make use of it to ease plenary votes. it is not the first time that amendments jointly tabled by multiple groups have been put to the vote first. so i will give the floor now to a round of political group speakers, as was agreed.
rapporteur. – madam president, just to remind us, in committees we often have compromises that are voted first. i don’t remember that those colleagues that protested today are protesting when they are part of the compromise. so when there is a compromise, it can be voted first – and that’s what we should do. i’m very grateful to everybody that worked so hard to bring us to a position in which we have brought compromises now. what is ahead of us is the biggest piece of climate legislation that we have ever had. if we agree on it, we will save more co2 in the next eight years than we did since 1990 – and we are really leading the way. but to do that, we also need to look at competitiveness and jobs. that’s why some of the amendments that have been negotiated are also important to give the industry the necessary time to adjust. what we are doing – and i’m heading here on the speaker that asked for a postponement – is that we give industry and citizens more breathing space in this difficult time. we give less ambition until 2026, but then we catch up. one thing should be clear, it’s a hard time now, and we need to use more coal to replace russian gas. but the future is for renewables and energy efficiency and clean technologies, and that’s why we are doing the right thing to take into account the crisis but also taking care of our planet and the future of our children and grandchildren.
thank you, mr liese. can i ask ms de lange and mr casa, would you like to take the floor? mr chahim on the carbon border adjustment mechanism? ok, then we go to manfred weber on behalf of the ppe group.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, the substance of today’s vote – i think you all are aware – is to try to give an answer to the biggest challenge of our generation and not allow ourselves to play one crisis against the other, with the war, as the climate thing cannot wait. i thank everyone for their readiness for the compromise today, even if we had to tell frans timmermans that we changed a lot in his proposal to improve it. now, i think it’s a good compromise and we all understood how difficult it is to bring interests together. on the one hand, fridays for future, on the other hand, the ‘yellow vest’ movement – the social dimension – and the fear of a lot of young people in europe to be another lost generation in terms of jobs and competitiveness. so i think we achieved a lot, and that’s why the epp group will vote in favour. i want to use the opportunity, madam president, to make a more general remark, because philippe lamberts, last time, when we had the vote and the defeat for the outcome, spoke about the pro—european majority. i thought a lot about this, also because of assita, as she was also asking me about what i said, and i want to reflect a little bit also for our culture in the house, that, for example, the czech colleagues from the ecr group, having now the prime minister of the czech republic in their ranks, together with the pirates from the greens, are they allowed to vote? are their rights populistic? for example, is our belgian colleague, mr van overtveldt, the chair of the committee on budgets, a very respected colleague from the ecr family, allowed to vote? i would say ‘yes’. is it for the colleagues, for example, even for marco zanni, governing in italy with mario draghi currently in office as prime minister, is he allowed to vote? i would even ask the question, philippe, is it for the french greens to be allowed now and in the future to vote because they work together with the left populist, mélenchon – a person who was really asking for a breach of eu law. so that’s why i am really ... (boos and whistles from the floor)(the president asked members to respect the speaker and be quiet) i really take it seriously. but philippe, you have to answer the question as to who decides finally about who has the right to vote and be part of a compromise with a ‘yes’ or ‘no’? that’s why my only appeal – and that’s why i am using this opportunity – is don’t continue this talk about who is allowed to vote and who not. we are all elected and we all have the same right to decide about the future of europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, two weeks ago my group of socialists and democrats voted against a text which did not respond to the needs of climate change. it was a tough decision, yes, but it was necessary. there were those who blamed one group or another for blocking crucial legislation. but do you know what the reality of that vote was? what he taught us to each other? that we cannot fight climate change if we are not united, if we do not listen to each other, if we are not able to make these climate ambitions bearing the weight of a large majority and not a small minority, which would have been irresponsible. since that vote, europe has suffered from extreme heat waves, severe droughts in many regions and, sadly, thousands of hectares devastated by fires. in my region, castile and león, more than 30,000 hectares have been burned in the largest fire in the history of our country, in the province of zamora, in the sierra de la culebra. we have to act. today we vote on a compromise. and it's not perfect, of course it's not, like all the compromises we make, because compromises imply that we all compromise so that we can have a common position. but this is the starting point which must enable us, as the european parliament, to negotiate with the council and we must do so without wasting a single minute. 2030 is fast approaching and the only way to act is to act now. that is why i call on all those responsible in this house, all members of the european parliament, to stop hanging medals on who is more responsible for this result and to get down to business. let's stop blaming ourselves and be responsible. the package objective 55 is the necessary response in a climate emergency, not only for this parliament to be able to push this proposal forward, but to be responsible to a planet that cannot wait any longer. i repeat: we in the socialist and democratic group want to work for a green transition with a red heart and today we are taking another step to make it possible.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago we failed and as a parliament we failed collectively. it was a failure for the climate and it was a failure for this institution. and in two weeks - in two weeks only - we have managed to turn the tide and find the compromises that will allow us, i hope, to vote overwhelmingly for the biggest climate package ever voted in europe. first, with a carbon market reform that will allow us to have the highest price in the world, by far, far, and we're at that meeting. then with a world first: a border carbon tax, a border carbon adjustment mechanism, and also a social climate fund that allows us to make the transition, but to make it fair. i would remind you of what peter liese said just now, we also took account of the exceptional situation we are in, with energy prices already very high for our citizens and for our companies. so we found the flexibility that we needed for our industries and for the most vulnerable families and households. i thank the negotiators, esther de lange for the epp, mohammed chahim for the socialist group and all the negotiators of the three texts which are being put to the vote today. we worked hard. we have worked with a european cooperation method, the only one that allows us to win both as an institution and for the climate. i therefore urge you to vote massively for this result, it is a good result for parliament, a good result for the climate. it's now or never.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, calm down, calm down. i think the french elections are over last time i checked. thank you very much. every time i hear colleagues talking about ‘reality’ and ‘a realistic approach’, i want to remind you of one thing, and that is the reality outside. the reality outside is that temperature records are being broken on a daily basis almost. look at the temperatures in spain and france last week. look at the flooding in bangladesh and india. we now have forest fires in alaska. that is the reality that we have to look at. that is also why we as a parliament, already two years ago, called for a climate emergency – because of that reality out there. and that’s also why we have said from the start, yes, this package is ‘fit for 55’, but this package is not fit for 1.5 degrees – and that we should all acknowledge. that doesn’t mean that we will not support this package. we as the green group will support this package because we know that for now, 55 is where this house wants to be. but let’s see, and let’s also use this as a stepping stone to do more for the climate, because we have to – not only for the climate, also for the new generation, also for the businesses. everyone is talking about business, but the only way to give certainty to the business is to address climate change wholeheartedly. and then the last point, and this is why we are happy with the current deal – finally, we have a social climate fund on the table as well, because really the hardest hit by climate are the poorest in our society. there is no climate justice without social justice and that all together brings the greens on board in this package. but it’s a start. it’s a start to addressing the climate emergency that we declared together. so let’s act on it together.
madam president, thank you for giving me the floor, because i have been challenged by my colleague manfred weber and i want to answer him. mr weber, i have never said, thought or implied that any of the 705 members of this house has less right to speak or less responsibility to speak than any other. we are all elected equally by the citizens of europe. the only thing i said, mr weber, was that if there was a willingness to discuss the package of adjustments to objective 55 at the very beginning of the discussions, among the four groups, which were also prepared to support your candidacy at the beginning of this parliamentary term as president of the commission, then there was a willingness to discuss the package of adjustments to objective 55 at the very beginning of the parliamentary term. if we had worked in this configuration from the outset, the epp, the social democrats, the liberals and ourselves would have arrived 15 days earlier at the result which you and i will see in a few minutes. that's all i said! and don't make me believe that for the greens some members are more equal than others. there are members of the house with whom we do not agree. that's something else. but they're all equal, all as much as they are. mr zanni, mr legutko, i do not agree with their ideas, but they are members of parliament, just like me.
we will now proceed to the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, finally we got it. we adopted with a huge majority the biggest climate law ever. we are doing a big step for the climate, but also protecting jobs. in accordance with rule 59(4) of the rules of procedure, i would now ask colleagues to refer the report back to committee to open interinstitutional negotiations with the council so that we can really find an agreement as soon as possible. finally, thank you to everybody. of course to the colleagues that helped, but a big, big thank you to our staff. they worked day and night and over the weekend, and they had to do extra work in the last two weeks. thank you very much!
thank you mr liese, especially for thanking the staff. therefore we vote on referral back to committee. (parliament agreed to the request for referral back to committee)
rapporteur. – madam president, according to rule 59(4) of the rules of procedure, i would like to request that this file be referred back to the joint employment and environment committee for interinstitutional negotiations according to rules 60 and 74 of the rules of procedure. once again, thank you, colleagues, now we finally have a social climate fund. thank you to all.
that concludes the vote.
the next item is the ‘this is europe’ debate with the prime minister of croatia, andrej plenković (2022/2709(rsp)). dear colleagues, we have the prime minister of croatia, andrej plenković with us today. prime minister, welcome back to the european parliament. it is a house that you know so well. we know you as a proud pro-european who, as state secretary for european integration, laid the groundwork for croatia’s accession to the european union in 2013, and as a member of the european parliament you worked closely with all of us and also our ukrainian colleagues. today, it is under your leadership, as prime minister of croatia, that your country has successfully met all the legal criteria for entry into the euro area. congratulations! at the start of the year, our house celebrated the euro’s 20th anniversary and it is fitting that croatia will soon become the 20th member of the eurozone. this marks a true defining moment for croatia and our union, but in order to remain credible we must also be consistent. croatia is ready for schengen. the european parliament has long recognised that croatia has met all the necessary requirements to join the schengen area and we will continue to support that. croatia’s european story is a success story. it gives hope. it shows results. with a war on our continent, with the decisions that we must take this week, the importance of hope cannot be underestimated. but hope alone will only get us so far. when countries look to europe, they expect us to keep our promises and they expect tangible progress, because europe can be more. on that note i thank you, prime minister, dear andrej, for being a staunch supporter of europe, for your leadership and for your tireless endeavours to maintain a viable eu perspective for the region. prime minister, andrej, the floor is yours.
prime minister of croatia. – honourable president of the european parliament – dear roberta, honourable vice-presidents, leaders of political groups, honourable members, i may even say dear friends and dear colleagues, honourable vice—presidents of the european commission – dear dubravka, dear maroš, dear citizens of croatia, dear citizens of the european union’s member states, it is my great pleasure to speak in front of you here in the european parliament already for the third time during my six years as the prime minister of croatia. but also it is my pleasure to be here with you as a friend, as a former colleague that was here between 2013 and 2016. and also, i would like to remember my friend david sassoli, who was president of the european parliament and who unfortunately left us too early almost half a year ago. this was a great loss for his family, but also to his home country italy, and to the entire european union. dear friends, when i was speaking last time here in this house of european democracy, i presented at the time – it was january 2020 – the programme of the first ever croatian presidency of the council of the european union. the title of this programme was ‘a strong europe in the world of challenges’. what unfolded literally two weeks after that speech was the breakout of a covid—19 pandemic, an event that has entirely altered the way of our lives, the way of our work, of our business, of our transport, of our education. it has literally altered the decision-making process the way we used to know it in the european union. croatia’s presidency couldn’t have guessed better that the world was really facing a challenge, and the challenge was the biggest pandemic in 100 years. the challenge that made us be creative. the challenge that has demonstrated more togetherness among the eu member states. the challenge that has shown the unprecedented solidarity and the incredible swiftness and efficiency in our common actions to protect our citizens from this plague that has hit the world and that has hit the european union, that has threatened the lives of our citizens. and in that respect, i think now – looking back at what was done in such a short period of time, not only with epidemiological measures, with the provision of protective equipment, with the incredibly fast discovery of the vaccines – we can say that we saved jobs, that we have kept the existential needs of our families, that we have managed to help our companies, our businesses, especially in the private sector, to bridge the threats that they were facing. in that respect, i as a prime minister was conducted by the concept of our policy, which we call the modern approach, the modern take on sovereignty, what it means to a country which became internationally recognised only 30 years ago is important to understand. we were a nation that was seeking its independence, that was seeking its state for many centuries. we finally attained this strategic national objective only 30 years ago in the context of tectonic global changes and the fall of the berlin wall and the entire fall of the communist regimes in eastern europe. and for us, attaining our sovereignty was very important. having our own state was very important. but we have very quickly decided that the future of our nation belongs to the european union, and everything we have done for two decades after we became internationally recognised – and the day of our international recognition is 15 january – we strived to become a member of the european family and we managed that in 2013. and when i say today my fellow croats’ ‘modern take on sovereignism’ means that we are achieving our national goals by pooling and sharing our sovereignty with our friends and partners in the european union, that we are helping our citizens with the extension of the christian principle of solidarity, something that brings us together, something that helps us to overcome all the difficulties and problems that we would have otherwise overcome in a far more complicated and difficult and most likely slower manner. that’s why this approach that we have for our own country, we are systematically advocating for the entire future of our european union, because this debate comes in the context of a series of debates on ‘this is europe’. and i will say a few words about the biggest challenge, the challenge that started on 24 february this year, the brutal russian invasion and aggression against ukraine has literally annihilated the main principles of international law, the main approach to global governance, to international relations that we were cultivating for decades. a united nations member country, a sovereign country, a neighbouring country has suffered a brutal aggression. for croatia, who was also a victim of aggression of the greater serbian policy pursued by milošević’s regime at the time, at the beginning of the 90s. it was very quick, spontaneous, almost a reflex reaction of first of all understanding what was going on in ukraine, and second in extending our support and help. the policy of moscow has two elements. it has two sticks: one stick is the nuclear arsenal, the other stick are the fossil fuels. with these two sticks they were able to conduct such an aggression against ukraine. at the same time, the two narratives, the narrative of literally not recognising the ukrainian identity – if you say that you are not ukrainians, but you are small russians, then you’re going to the essence of the identity of a nation – and second, the almost incredible narrative of the ‘denazification’ of ukraine was, in our view, quickly translated into a similar type of narratives that we had in 1990 vis-à-vis the croats, almost the same when it comes to the identity and when it comes to the so-called denazification. and these parallels were very clear to us. in my speech at the european council on 24 february i said that this has happened in the moment where obviously the analysis in moscow was that there were some weaknesses in the context of the timing of the state of play of the west, i will put it in general. the first one was the way of perception that the west left afghanistan. perhaps not in the most dignified manner. the second was the fact that there was a change of era in political terms in germany. second was that france was preoccupied with the presidency of the council and the presidential, and then, of course, which we witnessed recently, parliamentary elections. third, the united kingdom left, of its own reasoning, the european family. all this happened immediately, just as in 2008, when there were olympic games in beijing – at the time there were summer olympic games and there was an invasion of georgia. now it happened again after the olympic games, again in beijing, the winter olympic games; it happened in ukraine. what were the ramifications? the ramifications for the ukrainian nation are devastating. tens of thousands of dead civilians and soldiers, 13 million people displaced, 6 million refugees, incredible material destruction and the occupation of territory. but what we have witnessed was the incredible mobilisation of the international community and support for ukraine. we did the same. we paid our contribution with a lot of heart in political, in diplomatic, in economic, in financial terms, in humanitarian terms, by hosting the refugees in our country. there are over 20 000 ukrainians who found shelter in croatia and we are ready to receive them more. and of course we helped them, just as many other members of the european union, by providing them means to fight for their freedom, for their independence, for their lives. and that was the procurement of military aid. in that context, ukraine applied for membership of the european union. i was one of the members of the european council who was immediately very clear and articulate about supporting this candidacy, not only because i was the chair of the delegation for relations with ukraine when i was an mep here several years ago, but because i know how important this gesture in this context is for the ukrainian leadership, but most of all for the ukrainian nation and ukrainian people, and therefore i am pleased to see that the position of many member states is now being assembled around the wording that will most likely, at the historic european council tomorrow and on friday, actually grant ukraine candidate status. i think this is important, it’s courageous and it is certainly deserved by a nation that is fighting for the european principles of freedom and of democracy. and therefore our support to ukraine will remain very clear and unwavering. similarly, we support the candidate status for moldova. we support the candidate status for georgia, with conditions. we feel that this great leap of putting all of those three countries into the context of those states in the european continent who do have a european perspective is an important political evolution on the architecture of our europe and of our continent. so if this is a debate on europe, this is a big change on the way that we are looking at countries who are not yet members of the european union. in this context i will just say that the global perception of the current state of play of international relations is going to be focused on a rather simple notion – and that is not the cooperative way of conducting international relations, but more a conflictual way of international relations – whereby we should, on one side, have democracies and on the other side the authoritarian regimes. this is the gist of the historical moment that we are going through, and this is where the european union, as one of those who are at the peak of the democratic standards globally, should have a leading role in explaining and doing the so-called political pedagogy wherever we can of what is actually at stake. the ramifications are hitting everyone now of russia’s aggression against ukraine, in terms of energy crisis, in terms of spike of the prices of the raw materials, construction materials, food, even risking famine, especially in the eastern part of africa, but elsewhere globally too, and putting inflationary pressures on our own member states. this is important to understand. no one is untouched by the magnitude of this first of all energy crisis, but even more deeper, by the rise of the prices of food. and here, just as we did in covid, where we had a huge, unexpected problem, but we provided a very big and efficient answer, and the answer was powerful, the next generation eu was a bold european answer of the european union of today to the problem that was hitting every single one of our citizens. and therefore the attempt which we are now doing with the initiative of the debates of the european council, the commission has come up with repowereu. it was an important gesture and the guidance of the commission how we can organise ourselves by being true to the commitment which we said in versailles we should gradually abandon the fossil fuels coming from russia. in order to be able to do that and still be able to organise a secure supply of energy to our economies and to our households, we need to organise ourselves in terms of energy grids in the european union, and that means investments in gas pipelines, in oil pipelines, in liquefied natural gas terminals. croatia did its part of the homework already before: we have one lng terminal on the island of krk with a capacity of 2.9 billion cubic metres now. we decided to invest in it to upgrade it to 6.1 billion cubic metres, which would be enough not only for our needs in terms of our economy and our citizens and our industry, of course, but also for the needs of our neighbouring states such as slovenia, bosnia and herzegovina, and hungary. similarly, we use in the same way the croatian adriatic pipeline, which can provide enough oil for hungary, for slovakia, for serbia; a pipeline that can easily provide enough for all the refineries in our neighbourhood. that means that our geostrategic position is that we are one of the energy hubs – and the energy map of europe is something we shall try to foster and strengthen in the years which are ahead of us. talking about the debate on this is europe and our debate in the european council tomorrow and on friday, and especially the summit that is organised tomorrow morning with the western balkans, i will mention here to again the countries that are close to us, which we know well, where we are supporting their path towards the european union, their european perspective, especially bosnia and herzegovina, with whom we share more than 1 000 kilometres of border, where croats – people who are the same as croats in croatia – are one of the three constituent peoples of bosnia and herzegovina with which we have tremendous economic exchange. we are the second investor in bosnia and herzegovina and there are so many linkages – historic cultural, economic, transport – that bind us together. and we of course have been in favour of granting candidate status also to bosnia and herzegovina, very clearly because we feel that this country should not be the last wagon in the train of the western balkans towards the european union. it would be a historical injustice, and therefore we are one of those member states who are advocating granting a candidate status also to bosnia and herzegovina, in which context we would like also the urgent solution for the changes to the electoral law, which would enable that we have fair and just elections in bosnia and herzegovina where all the three constituent peoples, and especially croats, are after the elections are represented as duly as they should be, as it was the letter and the spirit of the dayton peace agreement, whose annex iv is the constitution of the country. and this position is very clear. it’s a friendly position. it’s a good neighbourly position. it’s a position that will help the european future of bosnia and herzegovina, and croatia will be the one who will be the first one to support it wholeheartedly and continuously. when it comes to the future of europe and the debate after the conference on the future of europe, i would here like to thank dubravka šuica, who is a croatian member of the european commission and the vice—president for demography and democracy, and i think that she has done a great job, that the european parliament has done a great job, that national parliaments have participated in this all-encompassing and inclusive process in bringing the european citizens closer to the european institutions, but more essentially to the gist of the debate of what we can do better together and how we can fill, perhaps, those voids in our cooperation, or how we can rectify some elements that should be done better. from that respect, i think that the conference on the future of europe, especially its conclusions with the suggestions and the recommendations, are a very clear signal of the european peoples, of european citizens from all of our member states – in croatia we had more than 250 events – on what the european institutions should do, what would be our direction. i was in particular pleased that there was a very, very clear signal that we should do more in terms of mixed shared competences when it comes to health cooperation. if there was one lesson learned from the pandemic, and we were in the driving seat, we had the presidency, our ambassador here, our permanent representative, triggered the mechanisms at the beginning, already at the end of january in 2020, and then we realised that actually this was an area where the european union member states should have more structured cooperation, more shared competences, more competences for the commission to lead the processes which were done in the crisis management in such an efficient way as if everything was planned, and it wasn’t. so i think that this message that came from the recommendations should certainly be taken into account. when it comes to this critical debate on the decision-making process, when it comes to the issues of foreign and security policy, i understand and fully can have a good comprehension of what the position of the european parliament is, and i’ve read the resolution. here, when you sit in the position of a member of the european parliament – and i’m lucky to have this experience – and when you sit in your position as a head of government, the optic is a little bit different. there are perhaps 97, 98, 99% of the situations where we find a compromise and agreement almost on everything. occasionally there are situations where we differ, and we have sometimes difficulties in finding the understanding of other partners for the particular position we have. i’m always saying that conditioning or blackmailing is a very bad policy. we were a victim of blackmailing for several years before we became member and we don’t like it and we don’t support it. then we always advocate how to use the right argument with the right approach to our friends, to our partners – we are all part of the same family – on how we can reach a compromise. and i have noted that many of the member states, let’s say small and medium-sized member states, are a little bit reticent because they know what the mathematics and calculation of the voting in the council means. and therefore i think that this issue merits a very careful and diligent follow—up. and we shall enter into this debate. we shall take duly into account the messages that were clearly sent to us by the european conference and by the resolution of the european parliament. may i say a few words about the croatia’s ambitions in this almost exactly ninth year of our membership – the end of the ninth year of our membership – because i think it’s important to mention it as well. i conduct as a prime minister a very pro-european policy, taking into account the national interest of my country, just as everybody else is doing and should do. and we decided in our programme six years ago that we want to be part of two deeper integrations: first the eurozone, and second the schengen area. and i was very pleased that roberta has mentioned that croatia’s membership of the eurozone seems to be set. i would like to thank your colleague siegfried mureşan, who is the rapporteur for croatian membership of the eurozone. after a visit to croatia he made a very sober, correct, but also positively toned report that the relevant european parliament committee has overwhelmingly supported, and i’m sure the same happens in the plenary. and that gesture of the european parliament is highly appreciated in croatia, by my government, by our citizens. and that means that after the endorsement tomorrow and the european council, we are facing the final decision at the ecofin council on 12 july. that means that croatia will join the eurozone on 1 january 2023, just as we planned, and just as we have carefully and diligently implemented our strategy for joining the euro, the programme for the conversion of the croatian kuna to euro, the action plan that followed after our joining of the exchange rate mechanism and the banking union on 10 july 2020, five days after the second victory at the parliamentary elections that we had, and that we shall fulfil this key political, first of all, but also economic and financial objective on time and as we planned. and i thank you for your support and your understanding that croatia becomes the 20th member of the eurozone. at the same time, i think already next week, the council will send the formal proposal for the decision to be taken on the croatia’s membership of the schengen area also to the european parliament, where i expect we will quickly have a rapporteur for schengen who will also take a very diligent view on our readiness, and we have also worked very, very hard to fulfil these criteria where both juncker’s commission at the end of their mandate in october 2019 and again the commission of ursula von der leyen – and i would like to thank in particular her and commissioner ylva johansson – have estimated that croatia has fulfilled the necessary criteria, and the relevant decision of the council, after the opinion of the european parliament, will be taken in autumn, and that we should also join this deeper integration on 1 january 2023. that would mean that croatia will be with both feet firmly in the centre of the european union, firmly in the deeper integration, thus fulfilling the decision of the croatian parliament and of the croatian people, and the referendum where we joined the european union. in that respect, we shall strengthen our economy. we shall strengthen the free movement. we shall facilitate the free movement of people. and it will be a back-up to a situation which we have today. we have the lowest number of unemployed people in croatia in the last 30 years, only 103 000. we have the biggest employment in croatia in the last 20 years, and we shall try to continue intervening, as i said many times, whether it was covid or now the energy crisis, to keep the economic and social standard of our citizens, because this is clearly a key priority, which we will make sure happens because of synergy of using the european and croatian sources. the membership of the european union has proven itself in times of crisis as one of those essential tools how we can fulfil the key national objectives and provide shelter and security for our citizens. in that respect, i will mention one important project also co-financed by the european union budget means, and that is the pelješac bridge, the bridge that will be opened on 26 july this year that will physically connect the southern part of croatia with the rest of the country. for us, it is a strategic objective that could not have had more symbolic connotations than it has, and that we should be continuing to invest in the new security threats, into our defence capabilities and into the contribution of croatia to the strategic autonomy of the european union. croatia will procure 12 french rafale multi-combat planes that will arrive in a little bit more than a year’s time, and that will strengthen our role as a partner in the european union’s defence, but also as a reliable ally in nato. all of this brings me to a conclusion that the times are full of challenges, just as much as we thought when we were preparing our presidency programme two and a half years ago. but even more when i look at the health crises, security crises, political crises, but also energy and existential crises for many of our citizens who without the role of the state, and without the concerted action, joint action through the principle of solidarity of the european union, would not look for a better future as we can look at it today. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, vice-presidents šuica and šefčovič, dear prime minister, dear andrej, welcome back to the european parliament, as a former colleague. it’s great to have you here. a second term now as prime minister is a strong mandate from your citizens. you are leading croatia and you are also leading the european debate. when i have in mind that croatia is the youngest member inside of the european union today, it is impressive to see the european success story behind it. when i look for the arguments for this success story, what first comes to my mind is the dramatically reduced youth unemployment – to give the young generation a perspective, to reduce the demographic brain drain and all the negative developments over the last decades. you mentioned already, and also roberta mentioned, two other success stories, with now joining the eurozone, a big success. i want to underline, it’s not only for croatia, it’s also for europe, for the eurozone, a big success because it’s proof that it makes sense to do it together. it strengthens the authority of the euro in the world. also now with the schengen enlargement, you have the full support of your political group and i think also from the european parliament, because you managed to do the necessary steps. when we talk about the future of europe, croatia is there in a leading role. i also want to thank dubravka šuica for her service, for her work on the conference on the future of europe. you also referred to the history of croatia – and whenever i speak about the general approach, croatians towards the euro, one event comes to my mind: when i was for the first time as a young mep in dubrovnik, in dubravka’s city, and we visited there the memorial centre showing the pictures of the soldiers who died fighting, defending freedom, defending the country, but also freedom and democracy and the rule of law. i saw the pictures, i saw then the subtitles about the names and about the age of the people and of the soldiers that died. then i read 1971, 1972, and that is my birth year as well. i grew up in bavaria in a peaceful time and i always had and still have a lot of respect for those who fought for democracy in croatia. croatia is, in a way, a good proof for what we have to do today. you said it. because now it’s a similar situation to ukraine and moldova, for those who now stand up and fight for our values, to give them a similar perspective: that enlargement works, that we should be convinced about this model and this approach. this is also true towards the western balkans, where we need now a clear timeline. i want to thank the opposition in bulgaria today, because boyko borisov and gerb voted in favour of north macedonia, to give them a perspective. i also want to express towards the serbian friends that they have to decide whether they want to join the european union or whether they are on the side of russia. there is no in—between anymore. we are making enlargement possible and we have to improve europe. there you mentioned one aspect, when we speak about the unanimous vote, where we have probably different points of views. croatia is now joining the eurozone. that means to give up sovereignty because you have no national currency anymore. but the idea behind it is to be stronger together, to be stronger together when we vote by majority. the same is for foreign affairs. we have no china policy currently as a european union; this gives us clear proof that we are not capable to answer the big challenges, due to the decision—making mechanism. so that’s why, you can imagine, we would be happy if you also would show up in the council to present the idea of a convention, because we need a deepening of the european union to make europe better, stronger for the future and croatia will contribute to this. thank you so much, dear andrej, and welcome.
on behalf of the s&d club. dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear prime minister, in every crisis, the poorest and most vulnerable suffer the most. and while some people are thinking about how to put food on the table or pay the bills, others are getting rich. energy dependency and disruption in production have resulted in rising prices, but some have gone sky high purely out of greed. taxing windfall profits, quality price controls, fighting growing inequalities by redistributing resources and creating a fairer market should be in everyone's interest. but it's not going to happen by itself. as prime minister, you and your colleagues have a responsibility to protect our citizens. i keep saying it, but maybe in buxelles you hear better. in conclusion, i would like to say that joining the eurozone is a positive. but the euro is not an end in itself, it is a means to an end, to give our people a better life. our european route continues to schengen, but for now it stops at the slovenian border. like our fellow citizens, i hope we can achieve that goal as soon as possible.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr prime minister, welcome to renew europe and allow me to raise some questions and dilemmas on which i would like to hear your views. we are delighted that croatia will join the euro area and i see this as a great opportunity both for croatia and for the european union as a whole. but i wonder what the croatian government will do to prevent the introduction of the euro being misused for unjustified inflation in these times of tightening of the drags, as this affects the image of the european union in the eyes of the population. i would like to stress once again the full support of our political group on european aid for the reconstruction of earthquake-stricken areas, where we expect faster and more effective action from both the public authorities and all those involved in reconstruction. but let me also stress our firm expectation that the croatian government will prevent the misuse of european funds that we have seen in the past. i will not open the question of borders in the region, but let me stress that in the spirit of the rule of law on which the european union is founded and falls, the decisions of courts, including arbitration, are expected to be respected and implemented regardless of any different political views. in view of the current issue of migration in the european union, i would like to hear your views and views on the european migration pact and in particular the position on whether, in the light of reports of 'pushbacks' and deaths at the borders, including drownings in the kolpa river, croatia will respect and also implement, in cooperation with all its neighbours, the highest standards of european international law, while effectively protecting the external borders of the european union. i believe that it is in our common interest that schengen should work, that it should not only be a common area of free movement of persons and goods, but also a common area of uniform legal rules. finally, i cannot but feel that, despite what you have said today, croatia is in some way a hostage to its own policy towards bosnia-herzegovina, which unfortunately remains ensnared in support of narrow and misguided nationalist policies. there are policies which, on the one hand, are blocking bosnia and herzegovina's european path and, on the other hand, are damaging both the republic of croatia and the croatian people in bosnia and herzegovina. this is a paradox of its own, and despite all its complexity, it can only be resolved by a clear and firm path for bosnia and herzegovina towards full membership of the european union. bosnia and herzegovina as part of the european union is in the interest not only of the european union but also of croatia and the croatian people in bosnia and herzegovina. i would like to wish croatia a successful tourist season and to ensure that we, the visitors, have as few stops as possible.
the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of the report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2021-2026. i want to start by highlighting two key facts. montenegro has gone the furthest on the path of european integration and has opened all the chapters. and almost 80% of the citizens of montenegro support the country's entry into the european union. montenegro is leading the way in the implementation of enlargement policy. this fact should not be ignored in the discussions on the granting of candidate status and accelerated accession to the european union. the year to which this report refers was marked by political deadlock at home and stagnation on the european path. this year also marks the 10th anniversary of the opening of negotiations on montenegro's membership of the european union, but unfortunately, no chapter has been closed since 2017. the main political priority should therefore be to close the negotiating chapters, i.e. to fulfil the interim criteria for chapters 23 and 24 relating to the rule of law. that requires a full negotiating team, and the negotiating structure has not been functioning for a long time. the report highlights concerns about the lack of progress in judicial reform and the prevalence of corruption, two key sectors that are seeking legislative support. progress in the fight against organised crime and in international police cooperation is welcome, while limited progress remains in the area of media freedom. we reiterate the importance of strengthening the protection of journalists, more efforts in the fight against disinformation, hate speech, harassment online, politically biased reporting and foreign influence in montenegrin media. foreign influence in montenegro is evident. we have witnessed dangerous events on cetinje. we note the direct influence of the serbian orthodox church on political events in montenegro. in addition, the continuing interest of russia in destabilising the region is underlined, which could also be directly felt in montenegro. the report condemns the protests against the then unnamed minority government that took advantage of some political options to express support for russia and on the day of the beginning of the aggression against ukraine. we have made it clear that denial of genocide, rhetoric to fuel intolerance or glorification of war crimes cannot be tolerated. it is therefore important to welcome montenegro's continued and full alignment with the common foreign and security policy of the european union, including the european union's sanctions against russia, and its active participation in missions and operations under the european union's common security and defence policy. the problems identified in the report are primarily the commitments that require the dedicated work of all branches of the government in montenegro. we need to accelerate the pace of solving them right now because too much of our most precious resource, time, has already been wasted. we welcome the formation of a new minority government composed of pro-european parties and the election of a new president of parliament. we also call for the appointment as soon as possible of a co-chair of the parliamentary stabilisation and association committee for the european union and montenegro. the eu-montenegro association council has adopted a resolution on the situation in montenegro. it would be an optimal way to mitigate political polarization or possible radicalization. the aim is to ensure social stability, respect for democratic processes, norms and standards, as well as the pro-european aspirations of the vast majority of montenegrin citizens, on a lasting basis. montenegro has proven to have the sincere support of all pro-european political groups in the european parliament. there is consensus on the implementation of the reforms needed to address the shortcomings in the institutions that are key to alignment with european union standards. the brutal russian aggression against ukraine has again given a strong impetus to the static policy of enlargement of the european union. the eu's enlargement policy towards the south-east of europe should show its credibility by opening stalled negotiations with albania and north macedonia. however, i also believe that montenegro can be a collateral beneficiary in the new situation. provided, of course, that the operational capacity to address the remaining open issues on the negotiating agenda is brought up to the level of stated ambition. i wish the most responsible for the process in montenegro every success so that we can welcome montenegrin women and montenegrin men as full citizens of the european union as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear rapporteur picula, good evening, honourable members. europe is facing turbulent times. russia’s military aggression against ukraine is not coming to an end and the consequences of this war are deepening. in this geopolitical context, the enlargement policy of the european union is revived. three months ago, three of our partner countries, ukraine, moldova and georgia, have decided to send a strong signal to the european union and to the world when they decided to apply for eu membership. for them, clearly, the eu membership is the most important and most reliable tool for their long—term peace, stability and prosperity. in this changing geopolitical context, when we are tightening our regional partnerships and cooperation, our priority remains the western balkans. we are committed more than ever to bring the entire region closer and within the european union, because europe does not end in zagreb or budapest: the western balkans naturally belong here too. it is more important now than ever to work on that not only fast, but with full commitment and will by all the institutions. i thank this honourable house for its continued strong support for the european perspective of the whole of the western balkans. let me now turn towards montenegro and the progress report on 2021. first, i want to thank the rapporteur, mr picula, for his work and the commitment as well as for the very balanced report we see today. i agree with him that our common interest is to speed up the enlargement process. we have no time to lose. the process continues to be built on strict but fair conditionality and the principle of own merits. this means that the pace of negotiations depends first and foremost on the progress in the fundamental reforms. in the current context, there is a window of opportunity for those countries willing to speed up the pace of their reforms and clearly demonstrating their eu commitment, not only in words but also in deeds. this is clearly the case that montenegro will have to face. the new coalition government’s strategic priority is to accelerate the country’s eu accession negotiations. this paves the way to move forward on montenegro’s eu path. we have encouraged all political actors and institutions to take forward eu-related reforms in a constructive spirit and in line with the expectations of the montenegrin citizens. we welcome that montenegro maintains 100% alignment with the cfsp and is therefore vocally standing on the same side as the eu. we are also including our western balkan partners, wherever possible, in the eu mechanisms to mitigate the socio—economic impact of the war, notably when it comes to the gas and food-security crises. the commission is supporting and will continue to support montenegro’s economic and social development. the eu is the largest provider of financial assistance and montenegro’s main trading and investor partner. our economic and investment plan for the western balkans offers a platform to support the socio—economic recovery from the covid—19 pandemic and the country’s longer—term resilience and prosperity. to fully grasp the benefits, we are encouraging montenegro to prepare mature and strategic long—term progress urgently. unfortunately, for the moment, montenegro is lagging when it comes to these eu—funded projects. therefore a much stronger focus should be put on having in place enhanced national administrative structures to prepare these programmes and these projects. retaining and expanding eu expertise in the montenegrin public administration will be key to address these challenges. also, regional cooperation is essential...(off-mic interjection from mr lacapelle)
member of the commission. – also, regional cooperation is an essential element of montenegro’s eu path. working together on a regional basis will greatly enhance the opportunities and benefits available to montenegro. we are supporting work on deepening the common regional market. montenegro has gone through a period of democratic transition. we expect the new government to restore the political and institutional trust, to maintain the cross-party dialogue and to pave the way to move forward swiftly on the key pending eu reforms. the coming months are crucial. the next milestone for montenegro is meeting the interim benchmarks for the rule of law chapters 23 and 24. before this, no chapters will be closed. concrete results are needed in key areas such as media freedom, fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as a renewed commitment to the implementation of the judicial reform. we have already seen the new government’s commitment in a number of crucial areas. the work ahead is well known and it is now time for montenegro to deliver on these critical gaps. there is no time to lose. thank you very much for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i will follow on from your remarks on montenegro. a few weeks ago i was with the committee on foreign affairs, first in albania, then to montenegro. the lack of administrative capacity makes me really sad, as the co-rapporteur for ipa iii funds, that we do not have these absorption capacities and prepared projects. i welcome montenegro’s new government and the inclusiveness that they showed and the inclusiveness regarding ethnic minorities this time. it looks like there is finally some understanding in the western balkans region that this plays a crucial part – to be inclusive in order to have everybody on board and to apply european principles. but still there is work to be done regarding croatian cultural heritage in the bay of kotor and respect for the language. so i am watching with great interest for what the montenegrin government will continue doing in the future. we are the greatest advocate for montenegro because we need the success story in the western balkans and we will follow with all the support that we can from our side. it is unfortunate that we are discussing this issue tonight so late, with the empty room that shows the respect for the western balkans, and i hope that in the future we will have more attention, we will have success stories and we will have success for the summit as well, for these countries that really deserve it. because for what’s happening in the western balkans, if we don’t deal with it, tomorrow it will be in france, it will be in germany, it will be somewhere else. the borders are not ending just on the croatian side.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this very good report. the western balkans deserve a real, genuine commitment, and montenegro demonstrates why. a year ago, in this same annual report, i called on montenegro’s leadership to set political differences aside and make the right choices for all montenegrins. i commend montenegro’s new government for their support to ukrainian refugees, for aligning with the sanctions – thus fully embracing our shared european values – and for pursuing the necessary reforms. the report also clearly indicates remaining – and very important – shortcomings, but montenegro is in pole position and has an opportunity to rewrite history which should not be wasted. it is a sign of hope for the region and the european union. this is the moment to maintain political unity and go the extra mile. i ask the council to do the same: act decisively for the western balkans, unblock north macedonia and albania, and give kosovo visa liberalisation – write history together!
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, montenegro is facing a major turning point following the political crisis triggered by the resignation of the previous government. the formation of a new minority government has enabled the political crisis to be resolved democratically and within constitutional limits. it can be said that montenegrin politics has demonstrated a certain level of political maturity. the current question is whether this political maturity will translate into the formation of a broader social platform committed to the realisation of montenegro's european future. this is necessary because the country faces important reforms and, above all, it must make up for a significant reform backlog. because only through reforms can montenegro reassert itself not only as a favourite for membership but also as one of the first countries in the region to gain membership of the european union. one of the key issues for the future of the state will be the regulation of relations with religious organisations, in particular the serbian orthodox church, in a way that montenegro will maintain secularism and at the same time political and wider social stability. this will define its future, which will either be european or it will be a return to the milky nationalist past. thank you so much.
rapporteur. – mr president, executive vice—president of the european commission, distinguished colleagues, at the 24 march european summit, the president of the european parliament, roberta metsola, told the heads of state and government that parliament was ready to deliver the necessary political deal to ensure that our gas storage was filled next winter. i’m very glad to be here today in front of you on behalf of the itre committee to tell you that indeed we have. on 7 april, this chamber entrusted the itre committee to negotiate this crucial piece of legislation, and on 19 may we reached a political agreement between co-legislators after long hours of negotiations in what was a second trilogue. the legislation, if adopted, will enter into force in july. it gives member states the possibility to take numerous measures to achieve their target, but also wants to ensure that non-market—based measures are only used when the market cannot do it alone. it will ensure that our gas storages are filled at a minimum 80% capacity by november this year, aiming for 85% and, from next year, a minimum 90%. above all, this agreement shows the will of the eu institutions and member states to act together in solidarity to strengthen the eu’s resilience and preparedness against external threats and in protection of european citizens. in addition, understanding the gravity of the situation generated by the russian war against ukraine, we have introduced a certification procedure by which every storage operator will have to demonstrate they are not a danger to our security of supply or our national security if they wish to retain ownership of the storage. we will not allow those wanting to influence and threaten our way of life to access our critical infrastructure. we also introduced a voluntary mechanism for joint procurement of gas, and i congratulate the european commission for moving very fast to nominate the deputy director-general and to set up this platform and the regional platforms, because we need that in order to offset possible price increases derived from the storage—filling obligations. the house made it clear that the measures to fulfil our filling targets will be taken with a clear idea that we have to protect our security of supply and diversify our sources. sadly, the war is still going on and the political games played by russia with our gas supplies only have confirmed that our actions are justified and that sooner rather than later we have to cut ourselves off our toxic dependency on russian fuels, fossil fuels. our work will continue in that direction and through the december gas and hydrogen package, the repowereu plan and the speedy implementation of the fit for 55 measures we will, i am sure, deliver once again. allow me to finish by quickly underlining the outstanding job done by the parliament’s negotiating team, led by former president buzek and composed of patricia toia, kleman grošelj, marie toussaint, paolo borchia, professor krasnodębski and sandra pereira. they have worked under a lot of pressure, but in a consensual manner, representing their groups faithfully and constructively. therefore, mr president, executive vice—president of the european commission, dear colleagues, i conclude my statement today by congratulating my colleagues and showing them my full gratitude and appreciation, thanking the european commission for the initiative and the very good cooperation during the negotiations, and also thanking the member states, the european council and the council of the european union for the very constructive attitude.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for inviting the commission to speak at today’s debate. commissioner simson passes on her apologies for not being here today. we know that energy security is the main topic of the day for many, many reasons. russia has weaponised energy and we have seen further gas disruptions announced in recent days. all this is part of russia’s strategy to undermine our unity. in total, 12 member states are now affected by russian unilateral supply cuts. ten member states have issued an early warning under the gas security of supply regulation. so the risk of full gas disruption is now more real than ever before. that is why the adoption of the gas storage regulation, together with other preparedness measures, is so important at this moment. the good news is that the political agreement between the european parliament and the council has already led to results. current gas storage levels, which are above 50% of our capacity, are well above last year’s situation. so now is the time to go the extra mile. the gas storage regulation includes not only a minimum obligatory level that gas storage facilities have to reach by 1 november each year, it also includes a trajectory and a monitoring system to ensure we meet our target. the first monitoring verification will happen in august this year, so we need to be ready by that time. the regulation was announced on 8 march, the proposal on 23 march, and the political agreement was reached with the council on 19 may. this was a record time and – i want to echo what honourable member buşoi said – this is really thanks to the excellent work of the itre committee and the negotiating team. i’m really grateful for what you have done. this is remarkable. so let me highlight some important points of the regulation. first, we welcome that the political agreement is an 80% filling target for 2022 with an important political commitment to seek to reach 85% at eu level. the filling target will rise to 90% for next year and will stay in place until 31 december 2025. member states without storage capacity will also need to contribute in a spirit of solidarity to ensure that this level is achieved. second, we welcome that an agreement was reached on the filling trajectories with enforceable trajectories and intermediary targets already identified and included in the act of 2022. third, for the first time ever, there will be a procedure to certify storage operators to make sure that influence by third country entities does not risk the security of the union or any member state. fourth, the regulation includes a provision on voluntary joint procurement for gas. as you know, last month the college of commissioners adopted the creation of an energy platform task force in dg—ener, and i also want to thank honourable member buşoi for referring to it. finally, member states have reiterated their commitment to the ‘energy efficiency first’ principle. so the regulation is based on a fair and balanced burden—sharing mechanism. the unity and solidarity that the member states and the european institutions show have been a pivotal signal to the markets, to our citizens, but also to our adversary. he will not be able to divide us. we will stay united and we will make sure that ukraine will come out of this as a free, independent country that is allowed to make its own choices of its allegiances.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you, mr vice-president of the commission, for a very well-written text. i wanted to tell you that today is june 23rd, which is exactly three months after the commission put this regulation on the table, so it's a record. i wanted to congratulate and thank my colleagues on the negotiating team, because the negotiations were truly an example of solidarity and cooperation. so, congratulations to you. we managed to get it done. most importantly, we have regulation that is robust. first of all, market mechanisms for filling up gas, but also the possibility of joint purchases, which has always been a dream of the european parliament. a hundred percent discount on the tariffs for liquefied gas from the gas ports, certification of the warehouses so they're not in dangerous hands. and finally, the eastern partnership countries involved, the energy community countries, especially ukraine we want this. unfortunately, we have failed to do one thing - i'm talking about limiting the filling of russian gas. but that's just one flaw in such a complex regulation. thank you very much, sir. congratulations to all the colleagues. of course i encourage you to vote yes.
the regulation we are adopting today is part of a wider strategy, a more comprehensive framework, the strategy which europe, as the first continent in the world, has adopted to radically change its energy supply model from fossil fuels to renewable energy. the war that russia has brought to ukraine, the unfortunate war, has only aggravated this situation and hastened our progress. now, i want to say that with this regulation we are preparing to give european citizens, european industry, european mobility, the security of being able to face the cold season that lies ahead and thus be able to be assured that there will be continuity of supply and continuity of the possibility of having recourse to the energy needs. i am interested in saying that this measure, although sectoral, contains the signs, the elements, i would say the traces of what our design is, which is to build a common energy policy and to achieve the energy union. i'll give you three examples. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the possibility of exchange mechanisms between member states, those with the possibility of sites and capacity, supplies and storage and those without. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the principle of energy efficiency, which is also being called for at this crucial moment in the quest for a greener europe. so it is a step in the right direction. but we must know that it will do so - inevitably, it is already doing so, because if russia reduces supplies at this moment when we need to replenish stocks - it is not accidental to put in place a price-increasing mechanism. that is why we ask you, mr vice-president, and above all the council, to show courage and responsibility. the prices must be calmed down, it may be the ceiling and we hope that something new will come out these days. it may be an intervention to monitor and pay attention to the operation of the amsterdam ttf platform, which is certainly not free from situations that should be monitored more closely. in short, we are asking for responsibility for prices as well as strategic capacity.
on behalf of the renew group. - mr president! - i have to go. this is one of the key measures to ensure energy security, or the supply of gas to european consumers. we are faced with a set of measures of a temporary nature, which are primarily a response to the brutal russian aggression against ukraine and the related russian energy blackmail. natural gas, like food, has become putin's weapon of blackmail and destabilization of the european union in pursuit of his neo-imperial goals. successful gas storage will ensure the smooth functioning of the single energy market and ensure the necessary solidarity between member states. it is clear, also from past experience, that only together as the eu can we prevent serious disruptions in the energy market. it is also important to establish a legal and technical framework for static gas storage and to prevent energy nationalism, which would escalate the energy crisis into a political crisis and divisions within the eu. and that, we must not forget, is also one of putin's goals. it is important to emphasise that the regulation does not in any way impede or limit our strategic objectives as set out in the green transition. on the contrary, it establishes a framework for energy security that will enable a successful green transition even in a challenging geopolitical environment.
the reporter. - mr president! i thank my colleague sirpi pietikäinen for her close and constructive cooperation from the first draft report to today's debate, all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, and all the expert teams and secretariats for the intensive work over the past months. i am proud of the outcome of this report, a comprehensive, in-depth and human rights-based report which i believe will help the commission in the development of a european supply strategy and its follow-up. i would like to thank in particular and dedicate this report to those without whom it would not have been possible. all individuals, especially those who care for our children, parents and grandparents, relatives and friends on a daily basis, need help and support. the field of natural care concerns all of us. everyone, at least once in their lives, finds themselves in the role of the recipient of care and also the provider of that care. provision is not only the highest expression of human and intergenerational solidarity, but also a productive sector and the connective tissue of our society. the paradox of its inevitability is that its immense economic and social contribution remains overlooked, while care work is undervalued and often unpaid and, consequently, unequally distributed. the pandemic has exposed this paradox once and for all, and it has opened the eyes of the public and politicians to the fact that justice and the public good are both in need of public support and investment. we need to correct as soon as possible the major mistake of cuts in this sector during the austerity measures of the financial crisis and the missed opportunity to make public service investment a mandatory part of post-pandemic recovery and resilience. without public investment in quality and integrated public care accessible to all, from early childhood to old age, the vicious circle of dependence on informal carers, overwhelmingly women, and the inequalities that this creates will not be overcome. insufficient and in many cases expensive and generally unavailable services, not included in the social security system, force women back to the home base, to economic dependence and social exclusion. creating the conditions for a completely free decision on the exercise and enforcement of the right to care is therefore the essence of the report before you. the report calls on the commission and the member states to ensure effective, universal access to quality care tailored to the needs of the people they serve. in this context, there is a need to accelerate the transition from still predominantly institutional to community-based care without imposing an unacceptable additional burden on the families of the persons receiving care. strengthening the protection of the rights of those who carry out care work, both formal and informal, is essential for the realisation of the right to care. most member states are facing labour shortages in the supply sector. in order to retain existing staff and attract new ones, including more men and younger providers, we need to improve working conditions, the coverage of the sector by collective agreements and the public image of the care professions. we need to protect the rights of often overlooked mobile and migrant workers and regulate the situation of those working in the personal and household services sector. we need to enable all employees, including those in the care sector, to better reconcile their professional and private lives. universal access to early childhood education and care, which my political group is pushing for by insisting on the early implementation and urgent financial strengthening of european childcare, is key to unlocking the potential of all children, especially those in the most vulnerable situations. supply remains the primary concern and responsibility of the member states. joint action at european level is essential to ensure equal protection of rights for all in the european union and to stop the outflow of skilled labour from countries and regions already suffering from a shortage of health and care workers. unfortunately, slovenia is one of them. we are also facing the challenges of demographic change and population ageing, and the requirements of europe's green and digital transition. i am confident that the commission will find in the report recommendations which take account of the broad context and which can complement and strengthen the proposals for strategic measures in the field of supply. the report also gives the commission a partner for the creation of a european care agreement that must further raise the level of ambition and take advantage of the opportunities that a more gender-equitable distribution of care responsibilities for individuals, society and the economy has been shown to offer.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. first of all, i would like to thank you again for this debate, as well as for all the work that has gone into the report. in fact, i'm honored to be a fellow student in this field. what kind of came out of all of this is that care is a human right. first, the human rights of the dependents, that is, those who need help, and then the human rights of those who work. the working conditions of those working in both formal and informal care are important to us. and within that, we need to encourage a process of de-institutionalization, which actually ensures that everyone lives independently in a way that is adapted to them, of course. it is now about inclusion for all, human rights for all, and that is the difference between this report and the alternative report which denies human rights for all. in essence, provision is the foundation of the european way of life. without it, there is no european way of life, and we need to revalue the care sector itself and ensure gender equality and equity. without women's work, this sector doesn't work. but it cannot continue to operate in a sustainable way, so it needs to be reassessed. values solidarity between generations is needed to achieve a more sustainable way of life. and the very basis of resilience and sustainability is actually caring. without dedication to care and, in particular, to the public good and public investment in care, there will be no sustainability. and that's why i say this area is so important, from child care, which we're already looking at, long-term care, care for those with special needs, all the kinds of care that we actually need. without it, europe stands or falls.
in writing. since the outbreak of the pandemic, we have seen an increasing trend in the number of workers exposed to mental health problems due to remote work, and there is still no adequate legislative framework at eu level to address mental health in the digital world. the first step is the recognition of the right to disconnect, which will make a significant contribution to the protection of mental health, work-life balance and the strengthening of workers' rights. i therefore support the call on the commission to propose a legislative framework on minimum standards and conditions for the effective exercise of the right to withdraw and on minimum requirements for remote work throughout the union. it is essential for a europe that is more resilient to the collective challenges we have faced and will face that the union makes full use of the competences conferred on it by the treaties. and also in addressing mental health challenges. only by taking concrete action will we be able to prevent a mental health crisis from becoming the next health crisis.
in writing. europe is moving towards a historic green transition, but we must take into account the geopolitical turbulence and uncertainty about our energy supply that putin is provoking by the war in ukraine. the taxonomy is a guide to investments to help europe on its way to its climate goals and becoming climate neutral by 2050. at present, the energy mix in europe varies from one member state to another. some countries are still heavy users of coal, while others are already moving towards renewable energy. the proposal takes this into account. to help member states in their transition to climate neutrality, the european commission proposes to include gas and nuclear energy in the taxonomy as part of the transition to renewable energy sources. the conditions are strict and limited in time, it is clearly not a wild card for gas and nuclear energy. the eu taxonomy is a tool that will provide more transparency and can be used by economic operators on a voluntary basis, it does not oblige member states to make one or the other investment, because the energy mix remains a national competence. given the nature and focus of the instrument, i support the european commission's proposal and voted against the blockade proposal.
in writing. the european commission proposes to include nuclear energy and natural gas in the eu's taxonomy on sustainable finance. this step is crucial to the eu's ability to achieve its environmental objectives. only with this complement and through new investments will the eu be ready for 'fit for 55'. member states have started to move away from russian gas, but to be able to do so permanently, we need new investment in lpg terminals and energy infrastructure. for the transformation of industry and the energy mix, member states need nuclear energy and natural gas, which is the transition fuel. ukraine, a candidate country, has just started exporting energy to the eu, a crucial development as we debate the country's reconstruction plans. the ukrainian nuclear industry needs the eu taxonomy to include the provisions presented by the commission. as regards romania, the inclusion of nuclear energy and natural gas in the eu taxonomy is essential for our country's energy security and ability to provide the population and businesses with energy resources at an acceptable price that preserves economic competitiveness and prevents disruption to supply chains. i will vote against the objection and strongly support the inclusion of nuclear energy and natural gas in the european taxonomy.
the european parliament shall object, in accordance with rule 111 (3), to the amendment of the delegated act on the climate dimension of taxonomy and the delegated act on taxonomy developments, as soon as the legislative form chosen to make a decisive change such as the classification of gas and nuclear energy as sustainable energy. a decision like this, in the context in which it is taken, should be discussed in advance in european society, and in particular in the european parliament. natural gas is important for the energy transition. diversification of supply is an immediate priority. but diversification in response to the war context has to be combined with the autonomy that only renewable energy, and in particular green hydrogen, can provide. this is essential, otherwise a substantial part of the investment classified as sustainable will be channelled to fossil energy for the transition and not to the green energy solution, thus fragmenting the market. nuclear energy should not be taboo either, but the models of exploitation and distribution in the territory must be discussed before nuclear energy can be considered a sustainable solution to the energy transition.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr paulo rangel, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the 2021 report on bosnia and herzegovina (2021/2245(ini)) (a9-0188/2022).
i would like just to remind you that i will not read all the procedural points which everybody knows, so just please take into account that we are working through the ordinary topics on the agenda as regards where to speak. i will tell you how long you have to speak when i give you the floor.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, bosnia and herzegovina is at a crossroads in its european path. after a year of political deadlocks and secessionist movements, the political agreement reached in brussels on 12 june and the most recent council conclusions are strong signs of the eu’s commitment to the european and euro-atlantic future of the country. the european council has declared its readiness to grant candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina. this is a crucial moment for the country, for the western balkans and for europe. while these are welcome developments, we must not forget the challenges ahead. the country still needs to implement a number of reforms and fulfil several necessary criteria. the council has said so by inviting the commission to report immediately on the implementation of the 14 key priorities. strengthening the independence of the judiciary, the rule of law and the fight against organised crime and corruption will be central to this positive assessment. the two main challenges that bosnia herzegovina currently faces are not technical but political. the secessionist movements orchestrated by the leadership of the republika srpska and the impasse in negotiations on electoral and constitutional reforms which will bring bosnia herzegovina in line with european norms. these two challenges have caused an almost permanent deadlock of state institutions that required the intervention of the high representative and a reinforcement of operation althea. solving these blockages and bringing functionality back to the state is of paramount importance. therefore, the council must follow the example set by the us and the uk and sanction milorad dodik, someone who, only days after committing himself to reforms in brussels, flew to st petersburg to meet vladimir putin and continues to refuse to condemn the russian war of aggression against ukraine. the kremlin’s assets around europe and the world are being sanctioned. mr dodik must be as well. the withdrawal from state institutions and the creation of parallel ones are a violation of the constitution and the dayton peace agreement and inevitably prevent any advance towards eu integration. that is also why we must support the office of the high representative and operation althea, which are vital to maintain the peace and stability of bosnia herzegovina. their mandates must be renewed and if they are not, other means must be explored and be at our disposal, including nato. the european union’s funding must also be modulated in light of these threats. the electoral and constitutional reforms have also not yet been realised, despite significant mediation by the eu and the us. there was a lack of political will to overcome differences and reach a balanced agreement. that is why we welcome the political agreement reached in brussels, which will allow the country to progress decisively on its european past. the legacy of the dayton peace agreement must be preserved, but the country must also implement repeated rulings by national and international courts and bodies to guarantee equality and non-discrimination. most importantly, we must acknowledge the long-standing european aspirations of all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina: bosniaks, croats, serbs, jews, roma and all other citizens who will benefit immensely with these key reforms. it is their legitimate choices and aspirations that need to be respected. and that is why free and fair elections must take place next october. funds have now been secured, and we call on all political actors to take part and allow the citizens to express their democratic choices. and so, despite these challenges, we should appreciate the renewed european focus on the western balkans and understand its unmistakable importance in europe’s new strategic and security context. the peace, stability and prosperity of bosnia herzegovina depend on our support and on the country’s european perspective.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first let me thank the rapporteur, paolo rangel, for his work and the honourable mr gahler for his presentation. the european council on 23 june has been very clear. eu leaders are ready to grant the status of candidate country to bosnia and herzegovina if the country meets the substantial set of reforms that are necessary. now bosnia and herzegovina has to deliver. we expect to see tangible reforms in view of fulfilling the 14 key priorities from the commission’s opinion. these key priorities, as we know, cover reforms in the areas of democracy and functionality, the rule of law, fundamental rights and public administration reform. the commission stands ready to report, as requested by the european council, on the implementation of the opinion’s key priorities. let there be no doubt that bosnia and herzegovina has a clear european perspective as a single, united and sovereign country. the full functioning of state institutions is key for its eu path. following russia’s war of aggression on ukraine, bosnia and herzegovina has confirmed its european commitment by aligning with eu statements and sanctions on russia and belarus. the commission welcomes this. however, this year was one more lost year. instead of concrete progress, we have seen growing political divisions throughout the country, which are affecting also the everyday life of people and businesses. we need constructive dialogue and political will from all sides to move forward on the eu path. bosnia and herzegovina’s institutions have remained blocked for too long. the continued boycott has jeopardised significant investments, including investments coming from the economic and investment plan for the western balkans. i expect the representatives of republika srpska to put an end to the political crisis and to ensure the full functioning of the state institutions. only then will the commission sign the contribution agreements for the corridor vc road and rail investments located in the republika srpska entity. in the past few months we have seen many reforms stalled or voted down in the parliament. this was the case of the amendments aimed at improving electoral standards, those aimed at enhancing integrity in the judiciary and of the draft law on conflict of interest. also, a lot of hope and efforts have been put into the talks on the electoral and constitutional reform, but a solution could not be found. now fair, free and inclusive elections must take place in october as scheduled. only by concretely delivering on reforms will bosnia and herzegovina demonstrate that it deserves candidate status. bosnia and herzegovina needs to move forward on all key priorities. bosnia and herzegovina is key for the future of the western balkans. the region’s future is in the european union. instead of in—fighting, the country should focus on the positive and constructive european agenda. this is the agenda with real gains and real benefits for everyone. it is the agenda that brings prosperity, stability and peace, and it is the agenda on which we need to work together. the commission stands ready to support bosnia and herzegovina in this endeavour with all its instruments. i thank you for your attention and i am looking forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, we used to get along. we lived in a country where majority rule brought about the great disintegration of that same country. it wasn't that long ago, and i'm not that old, and neither are you. we still remember that moment. bosnia and herzegovina is a country that was born out of the dayton-paris peace agreement, an agreement that marked the end of a bloody conflict that we see today. i was a refugee in london until '99, when the bombs stopped, in the london tube when the good friday agreement was made. we're here to discuss whether we should keep the dayton-paris peace agreement or whether we should enter into another new crisis. tomorrow the leaders of the serb, bosniak and croat political leaders will meet in brussels. i expect a positive agreement to be reached after the elections, which are held in october, which will, unfortunately, be implemented without an agreement on the electoral law. will we enter into another deeper crisis or will the elections mark the continuation of peace, the continuation of a long journey towards the european union or will we remain... (the president interrupts the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, bosnia and herzegovina need an eu perspective. the bosnian citizens want to belong to the eu. bosnia and herzegovina should be granted candidate status to achieve this. bih has to implement reforms against corruption and strengthen the rule of law. following the 14 key priorities, bih needs due functioning of democratic institutions, good governance and fundamental rights. bosnian leaders must focus on the reforms to provide all people decent living conditions, regardless of what ethnic group they belong to. abusing different ethnic origins and feelings, most of the leading politicians keep the country in limbo. i’m happy that the election will take place in october, and i hope that as many citizens as possible will participate. bih must have a future in the eu. in view of the current fundamental geopolitical upheaval this would be in the interests of bih and the eu, but we should bear in mind that in the context of the enlargement process, the eu must reform itself.
on behalf of the renew group. respected ! after more than two years working in bosnia and herzegovina, i can see that our european action in bih is neither geopolitical nor strategic. we have missed a historic opportunity for a country that, despite all the threats, the obstacles, the foreboding of secession, the desire for a third entity, whatever, would have preserved stability and, together with the role it occupies in the region, would have more than earned the status of a candidate. but no, in the eu, neither the council of the eu, nor this house, nor the commission can do that. as a drunkard, we cling to the 14 conditions of reform, which have arisen in a completely different political and, above all, security context. while nato clearly and unequivocally defines the strategic importance of bih for the security and stability not only of the western balkans but of the whole of europe, we europeans are lost in a forest of different interests that have to a large extent poisoned or made impossible a unified european action in bosnia and herzegovina. it is a complete lack of awareness that bosnia and herzegovina, as some in this house still try to prove, is not a failure story solely because of its own complexity, but also because of our inability to act in unison. which is why we're doomed to a constant crisis management. what we need today in bosnia and herzegovina, in addition to the status of a candidate country, is a clear and decisive european intervention. bih needs a unified european intervention in the establishment of the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the provision of an independent judiciary and a free media. the eu must decisively end the cat-and-mouse game we are playing with various local politicians, with a clear framework of conditionality in the enlargement methodology. instead of words, actions, reforms and changes must follow, which will benefit both the people of bih and the european union. these changes will not please many local politicians, but we have been dealing with them for too long anyway.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first, let me thank the rapporteur, mr bilčík, for his work on this report. we are facing unprecedented challenges in europe that make it clear that eu membership is the most important and most reliable tool for peace, stability and long-term prosperity. this was reflected clearly in the european council conclusions adopted last week. there is once more, and rightly so, enormous attention given to eu enlargement policy. and i thank this honourable house for its continued strong support for the european perspective of our partners in the eastern neighbourhood and also for the whole of the western balkans. today’s discussion follows the elections that were held in serbia in april and the participation of all political forces was of key importance there. and allow me also to acknowledge the important role and the value of the participation of the members of this house in the election observation mission. there have been significant improvements, including those that allowed the participation of all political forces. but the challenges remain. therefore, the work needs to continue to further strengthen the functioning of democratic institutions. i welcome that final election results have been published earlier today by the central election commission, thus paving the way for the constitution of the new parliament. the commission is determined to work with serbia’s leadership and the new government to make further progress on accession negotiations. the progress made by serbia on eu-related reforms has allowed us to open, last december for the first time, a cluster of four chapters on the green agenda and sustainable connectivity. this was an important signal for serbia. it confirmed that the eu responds positively to reform progress. and it also sent a strong message that the eu is stepping up engagement on the green agenda for the benefit of all citizens. however, reforms need to continue. building on the momentum of last december and on the successful january referendum on the constitutional amendments, we expect serbia to deliver real and tangible results, in particular in the area of the rule of law and on dialogue with pristina. both are essential and they will determine the overall pace of serbia’s eu accession negotiations. serbia needs to continue to accelerate and deepen reforms on the independence of the judiciary. the fight against corruption and organised crime, media freedom and the domestic handling of war crimes. the commission will continue to report on and assess serbia’s progress in this respect. the recent agreement reached under the eu facilitated dialogue on the energy agreement's implementation roadmap is an important step forward that will hopefully unlock discussions on other outstanding issues. in the current geopolitical context, serbia has demonstrated its commitment to eu values by aligning with the number of eu declarations and by supporting relevant un general assembly resolutions on ukraine. we now expect serbia to continue to show this commitment and step up its efforts in progressively aligning with the eu common foreign and security policy, including declarations and restrictive measures in line with the eu-serbia negotiating framework. in this regard, it is also important that serbia decreases its dependence on russian gas. the beginning of works on the serbia bulgaria gas interconnector, for which the eu provided almost eur 50 million, is an important joint step toward securing and diversifying gas supply for serbia. we are also supporting cybersecurity and eu oriented strategic communication, including fighting russian disinformation across the region. let me underline that the eu is and will remain serbia’s main political. and by far the main economic partner. we will continue to support serbia’s economic recovery, energy, food security and society, including through the significant support made available under the economic and investment plan for the western balkans. thank you for your attention and i look forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to focus on three main points. serbia is the only candidate country for membership of the european union that has not yet joined the common foreign and security policy of the european union, especially now with regard to russia and russia's aggression in ukraine. belgrade has been sending out very frequent signals, even now, of close cooperation with russia, both politically, economically, energetically and militarily. the serbian political elite must clearly choose with the european union or with the kremlin, or perhaps they are looking for something like, as in the time of tito, for non-commitment. when we talk about serbia, very often on paper the situation looks good, but in reality, unfortunately, things are not so. an example of this is the so-called national minority councils. they are totally subordinated to belgrade by installing people close to mr. vucic's party whose priority is to push through belgrade's policies which do not always meet the specific interests of a particular minority, both economically and socially. in the case of the bulgarian minority, there is indeed a risk of an environmental catastrophe, in addition to the economic and social one. we also expect decisive progress on kosovo in the near future with a clear aim of mutual recognition between the two countries.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, serbia is part of europe and its future is inevitably to become a full member of the european union. there is already a considerable delay in this course. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is because reforms are delayed, social justice is absent, respect for other views is missing, and the silencing of journalists and media outlets not controlled by the government is taking place. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in human beings. attacks by pro-state groups on opposition leaders. while you expect to be part of european principles and values, you must identify with them and join in imposing sanctions against russia without much ado. some steps, of course, we have to admit have been taken. i am sending the message to the people of serbia that we continue to support a genuinely democratic serbia, a member of the european union.
on behalf of the renew group. respected ! the report on serbia's progress, or rather lack of progress, in the european union's enlargement process that lies ahead of us unfortunately does not tell the full story of a country that somehow cannot or does not want to make the political effort to definitively define itself on the european path. the issue of sanctions against russia is just the tip of the iceberg of dilemmas to which serbia and its current authorities have no answers in the process of negotiations and eu rapprochement. i wonder, especially after the complications with the parliamentary elections and the three-month delay in the publication of the results, what are the real reasons that prevent serbia from getting closer to the eu on sanctions? despite the various explanations of the authorities in belgrade, the impression is created that it is more than a question of sanctions and eu rapprochement, it is a question of the survival of the current authorities. insofar as serbia does not wish to join the club of perennial candidate countries, it is urgent and decisive that it embark on a path of deep reforms in the areas of the rule of law, basic democratic standards, the independence of the judiciary and the media, the functioning of civil society and other fundamental values and principles on which the eu is founded. the current practice of formally fulfilling commitments is no longer sufficient, but all reforms must be implemented in practice for the benefit of the citizens of serbia and only then for the conditions for accession to the european union to be met.
in writing. in the summer, europe experienced one of the driest periods in recorded history. drought alarms were issued across much of the continent, fires drove people from their homes, river levels began to fall, and an unimaginable heat wave hampered agricultural production and tested the limits of nature's and, consequently, man's resilience. our atmosphere is warming faster than other parts of the world, and recent studies show that the entire nature of our climate will change unless we take serious and decisive action. this year's drought is just the latest in a series of extreme weather events that are becoming more common and increasing in both scale and intensity. long-standing mismanagement of europe's forests is also causing fires to spread faster, leaving a severe impact on both the fire sites and the air we breathe. parliament's resolution represents an urgent shift in the way the european union is acting to combat the devastating effects of climate change. i have also actively advocated for this myself, with an initiative for a 20% increase in the eu budget for european civil protection (resceu). i also welcome the intention of the president of the european commission, expressed in her state of the union address, to increase the fleet of firefighting aircraft over the next year, which is only the first of many steps in the right direction.
mr. president, i have to go. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there are few moments when we can take pride and responsibility for this platform when we're not in the service of ordinary people, but our decisions can make a difference for millions. a time of prevailing crises is a time of different responses. we can't tell people that we're going to save them with wage cuts or budget balancing laws, but that we're going to save them by guaranteeing them decent and adequate wages. it is unacceptable that the proportion of those who are poor in the eu is increasing among the employed and that those in critical care, health, trade, transport and logistics occupations are also among the minimum wage earners. it is time for countries to adopt a minimum wage framework that is adequate and dignified as soon as possible, to strengthen social dialogue and to take advantage of the progress made on the european minimum income, because only this will mean a stronger european union, both at the level of the people and as a whole.
on behalf of the renew group. respected ! the aim of the industrial strategy renewal was to incorporate the lessons learned and the experience gained during the epidemic. but what we have on the table today goes beyond that basic ambition. we are facing a document which, if followed by appropriate concrete action at the level of the european union and the member states, can significantly strengthen the resilience, competitiveness and penetration of the european economy and ensure a further increase in the well-being of all europeans. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. this means that, in addition to investing in infrastructure, there is a need for investing in research and development, which will provide the eu with the necessary technological base and know-how to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. in this context, support for smes must be emphasised, and we must ensure that they have the conditions for growth and development and access to technology capital. in the context of the green transition, as the current energy crisis reminds us, the objective must also be to ensure a reliable supply of green energy in the quantities needed and at affordable prices. we see the impact and consequences of high energy prices on our society and economy. i also raise the issue of resource dependency, which we must overcome or resolve before we have a repeat of the russian gas story. the announcement by the president of the commission gives us high hopes, but we want to see concrete action even more. of course, strategic partnerships are part of the solution, but the key issues are the relationship between the level of self-sufficiency in the own resources and the circular economy and the volume of imports. in summary, this is a good document, but it must be followed up by concrete action. thank you so much!
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. - madam president! first, thanks to a good working relationship with a skilled negotiating team. we greens have focused particularly on a holistic approach to health. when our nature and environment are threatened, our health is also threatened. the decline in biodiversity and increasing pollution pose a general health risk and increase the risk of new pandemics. the big picture has come in now. we would like to see more transparency in the joint purchasing and negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry. the taxpayers have a right to know how their money is being spent. we have had a little bit of openness in decision-making, as there are members of parliament involved at several levels. it gives the public a chance to follow. if governments are alone, there is very seldom openness about the work, certainly not in the joint way that we have in parliament. but what about global solidarity? it is absolutely shameful for an industry which has received billions of euros for, say, vaccine development and will continue to be well-supported by the public sector, that they are fighting against the sharing of knowledge and recipes for the vital medicine. and it is equally shameful that our governments are taking their side and not the human side of the issue.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner dalli and commissioner kyriakides, ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 crisis has been plagued by errors and lack of transparency, both in the member states and in the coordination work carried out by the commission. these proposals should serve to improve access to information and coordination in order to gain agility in crisis management. the improvement of the health instruments available can in no case be an excuse for imposing policies orchestrated by the european commission to gradually empty member states of competences. health coordination does not mean unilaterally imposing disproportionate measures or abandoning effective mechanisms at national level. the forthcoming reform of european pharmaceutical legislation will demonstrate whether we have been able to work together to find respect for the balance of competences which benefits the health of europeans, innovation and, at the same time, industrial development and the autonomy of suppliers.
for the group the left. madam president, madam commissioner, by adopting these two regulations, we are completing the work that started with the covid-19 pandemic. while i have considerable reservations about all three of the main documents that make up the european health union, i firmly hope that their timely and smooth implementation will allow us to be sufficiently prepared for the next pandemic that will undoubtedly come. unfortunately, the legislation adopted has considerable limitations, mainly due to the lack of cooperation between member states in the field of healthcare in eu primary law. in the long run, we have to change that. cooperation in the field of public health and care would merit a major revision in the treaties. if that doesn't happen, we'll be condemned forever to cosmetically patching holes that keep popping up. but i am currently looking at a possible upcoming revision of european pharmaceutical legislation. it is the only one that can help us to address the challenges in european healthcare and its availability that the pandemic has only revealed. it is noteworthy that the commission has still not presented this revision, which has been awaited for decades. there's not much time left in this election cycle. the existing framework for both general pharmaceutical legislation and intellectual property rights or for medicines for rare diseases and cross-border healthcare is no longer adequate for the needs of the times. citizens' access to medicines and healthcare continues to deteriorate, disparities across the eu are widening and the current confluence of crises is likely to accelerate these problems. it is five minutes past twelve, something must be done, especially for eu citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the covid-19 pandemic, member states have understood the importance of improving joint responses to cross-border health emergencies. strengthening cooperation at european level will allow for more effective coordination to prevent and prepare to manage not only infectious diseases but also the different threats to public health from environmental, food, biological and chemical sources. the european centre for disease prevention and control will be a key player in monitoring, analysis and advice, both before and during the crisis. the availability of sufficient supplies of health products and services that are accessible to all must be a priority in national and european planning, as must every effort to reduce our dependence on third countries for medicines and medical devices. transparency and participation must be a feature of all decision-making processes and negotiations with industry. the stronger the european health union, the stronger the health protection of the rights of european citizens.
mr president, one minute is far too short to put this whole negotiating result in the spotlight. first of all, let me thank véronique trillet-lenoir and all the members of our team. we may have been from different political groups, but we had common priorities and i want to thank you for that. in this short time, i want to do three things. i want to say what i'm most proud of. the most important thing i am proud of in this negotiation is the fact that continuity of care, the prevention of delayed care, is being included in the member states' preparedness plans. we need only look at the reports on late diagnoses of, for example, childhood cancer to see why this was a priority for the european parliament. i want to tell you what i hate the most. what bothers me most is that mental health is not mandatory in the national preparedness plans. we as a parliament wanted that and the council worked against it. i think you only have to look at it from strasbourg to see that this needs more attention throughout europe. and finally, what i fear most. what i fear most is that in the next pandemic the council will fall back on that national reflex. the conference on the future of europe has shown that the citizens do not want that. this legislation allows for a european approach. that is why i am asking for support in this week's vote.
welcome to the commission, my colleague. health is the foundation of everything. without health, there is no functioning economy, no school systems, no social welfare, no politics... nothing. as long as we have it, we tend to forget about it in our daily lives. but two years ago, we all received a clear warning that also showed how vulnerable individual countries are in dealing with crises of this magnitude. the management of cross-border threats and public health risks depends, of course, on a number of factors. the first is to strengthen the mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control. its successful operation will also depend on digitisation, data collection and processing, while ensuring appropriate security. the quality of treatment and access to medicines should not depend on the country you are from. this requires uniform standards and their provision, perhaps even joint procurement of medical devices through the ema. the most important thing is that we have an effective health care system in place, because none of us knows the future. and health, as they say, is the foundation of everything.
member of the commission. – thank you, madam president. honourable members, since the russian aggression on ukraine started, europe has welcomed an unprecedented number of people – mostly women and children. we stand united and our response – also thanks to this house – has been firm and unwavering in full solidarity with the ukrainian people. beyond the human suffering, the economic costs of russia’s unprovoked and unjustified war of aggression and weaponising of gas supplies are acutely felt in europe. among the measures introduced at union level and with the indispensable support of this parliament, cohesion policy has been instrumental in addressing these challenges. but we hear time and again from all our partners, ngos, regions and member states, that the first two care packages were welcome, but more must be done. so fast—care responds to these calls. it leverages cohesion funding to the aid of member states and refugees, ensuring that support reaches those at the forefront of the solidarity effort, ngos and local authorities. fast—care also tackles the difficulties and delays in cohesion projects, due notably to shortages of supplies and inflated costs of raw material to ensure investments continue and projects do not come to a halt. fast—care aims, first, to provide additional flexibility for projects addressing migratory challenges, second to alleviate the impact of public budgets by an extra eur 3.5 billion of pre—financing, as well as higher co—financing rates, third to support local authorities and ngos, making sure at least one—third of resources reach them directly and, fourth, to support projects delayed by implementation difficulties. while we are introducing significant flexibility, we do not compromise on our core cohesion policy principles and objectives. with these measures in place, member states and managing authorities will be able to finish major projects under the previous programming framework and move forward to the new programmes to achieve cohesion policy’s long—term objectives of reducing disparities and promoting convergence. this package is crucial, and time is of the essence. i am particularly grateful to this parliament, the regi committee and the rapporteur for once again playing a decisive role in ensuring that europe provides tangible solutions to the unprecedented challenges of the day. fast—care is yet another illustration of our union’s capacity for careful consideration and swift action at the service of citizens. these last two years, circumstances have many times required that we adopt new initiatives at maximum speed, and every time we have done this quickly – motivated by our common european values of solidarity. so many thanks to this house, and i commend this legislation to parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 4 october 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. flexible assistance for territories (fast care) is a new legislative package that makes it possible to obtain funding through the european union's cohesion policy for local authorities, civil society organisations and member states hosting refugees. this is of particular importance for regions facing migratory flows and in particular for eu communities neighbouring ukraine. cohesion policy is therefore the instrument that helps us to address the consequences of russian aggression on the ukrainian people and territory. we need to be flexible and accordingly adapt the rules to ensure that money is spent wisely and that it reaches those who need it most.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on matters of political importance (rule 172).
madam president, we all look to ukraine, expressing our appreciation, our empathy for the victims and the suffering of this people. europe and the world continue to give him full support to face this war. however, we must be aware of the challenges faced by the states bordering ukraine in terms of grain transit. romania fully understands its importance and the need to ensure global food security. that's why we've opened up new border crossings and cut down on red tape as much as possible. however, there is a worrying phenomenon, namely that significant quantities of cereals from ukraine remain in the european union, but especially in border countries such as romania, although these cereals should mainly reach african countries. this creates deep, unfair competition for farmers across the european union, in romania, who are forced to sell their own produce well below cost. solidarity must exist, but that doesn't mean we have to destroy our farmers.
madam president, commissioner, the energy crisis is getting worse, winter is coming. in my view and in the view of the citizens i represent in romania, the european commission is mimicking solidarity. and i'll explain why, commissioner. romania has only half of its households using biomass. less than half of households, 44%, are connected to methane gas. a third of the homes in romania are connected directly to methane gas. the average consumption of methane gas per household is below the european union average. romania consumes less than one mega kilowatt per hour of electricity per capita. there are other states that consume two, three, four, five times. and the commission comes up with the proposal to reduce consumption, all member states, by 5%. romania, if it consumes less than one mega kilowatt per capita, if it drops another 5%, equals, as would sweden, which consumes 4%, what happens to the inhabitant, the citizen of my country? don't you think solidarity means having equal consumption for all citizens in the 27 countries? romanians are tired of double standards: we are not in schengen, we have no visas to america and you make us live in darkness and by candlelight.
madam president, i have to go. colleagues and colleagues. the member states of this union are, as far as i know, on an equal footing. and as far as i know, all our languages are equal. and as far as i know, we have a common market. and so i don't see why we should allow some of the multinationals that are in our markets to ignore that. the rules that apply in our single market in the physical world must also apply in the digital world. of course, legislation is also important here, that's clear. but in this case, it is just as if not more important to know that discrimination simply cannot exist. that we should all have the right to choose, in this case, to choose to watch a movie or a tv show with subtitles or dubbing in our native language. no language is more or less important, but surely the mother tongue is the most important for everyone, so for me slovak is the most important. that's why i'm going to do everything i can to make sure that our multilingualism is respected at all levels, including on all digital platforms. and since, as far as i know, slovenia is not the only country facing this problem, dear colleagues, i am counting on you too.
in writing. during its current term of office, the european parliament has held several debates and adopted opinions and reports on combating discrimination against roma and on effective measures to integrate them into society and the economy. this debate with oral questions to the commission and the council and the resolution prepared by the european parliament, also based on the experience of our visit to the marginalised roma settlements in slovakia, builds on them by focusing on spatial segregation and poor housing conditions in roma settlements in the european union. the european union and the member states need to do much more to combat discrimination against roma and to effectively integrate them into society, starting with the elimination of spatial segregation, the ghettoisation of roma and unhealthy and dangerous living conditions. the latter are reflected in unequal access to education, the labour market, health, care and other basic services, and a high risk of poverty and social exclusion. the commission must act as the guardian of the fundamental treaties and european values, at the forefront of human and minority rights, and prevent european funds from being spent on projects that deepen segregation and inequality of roma. at the same time, it must take action to address the lack of political will or administrative obstacles that prevent eu funds from being spent on the most vulnerable groups in society.
madam president, thank you very much. the commission has proposed to freeze the funds of hungary under the rule of law mechanism. finally, but we're not there yet. the first problem is that this concerns only part of the funds. the other problem is that from the current budget, money is flowing into hungary this very moment, unhindered, despite corruption and the collapse of the rule of law. the third problem is that it seems to create some kind of political agreement. but compromises with illiberal governments are not possible, and you know, the eu really should learn that sometime. okay, i accept that the mechanism can be re-activated or expanded. i also accept the penalty, and i hope that's true, that there are other levers of pressure to be used to maintain the independence of the judiciary or the prosecution through the recovery and resilience fund. there can be no concessions here, because i doubt that the hungarian government will change its course in any way, for the worse at best. as regards the proposed measures to unlock funding, it appears that the hungarian government pretends to accept reforms, and the eu pretends that these reforms are sufficient. i hope that the member states are aware of this and will block at least that part.
in writing. member states and individual groups of the population, especially the most vulnerable, are not in an equal position to deal with the current energy crisis, especially when it comes to designing measures to mitigate the impact of insurmountable electricity and gas bills and general price increases. i therefore expect member states to come together in this diversity and, with the commission's help, to coordinate their responses at union level. we already have on the table a rather exhaustive list of policy tools that could help address the current crisis. some have proven effective during the pandemic, such as the sure programme to save jobs, which should become a permanent mechanism. i also consider it appropriate to introduce a tax on unexpected profits of the banking sector, energy, pharmaceutical and other companies, which have recorded extremely high profits during this crisis and since the beginning of the pandemic and aggression against ukraine. the commission should also be able to use the revenue from the union's own resources to finance the measures referred to in article 3 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. i think we have enough choices in terms of how we design our common mechanisms. this requires political will and prudence, based on a collective awareness of the european policy of exceptional responsibility for the welfare of all the inhabitants and citizens of the union.
mr. chairman, please! if ever, it was during the worst of the covid restrictions that we could all really see what an asset the european union is among the most crucial. we have seen what it is like when practically all the state border controls are back, in slovenia we have been locked up even in the municipalities. now let us say it again: border controls within schengen without justified reasons are unacceptable. they're preventing the free flow of people. they make life difficult for those who work in a neighboring country. and above all, they create unnecessary division between nations. moreover, once one country does it, others must do it. the regulation only allows temporary surveillance for six months, and all the reasons for extending this period, which in some cases has already lasted for several years, are basically inconsequential. in these cases, the commission should make a formal public statement and protect the union's interest by acting, by being decisive. member states should agree on common solutions which are legal and justified. the limits of whether it's possible or not are in your head.
mr president, commissioner, the african climate conference is an opportunity to recall a fact that is as cruel as it is unfair: africa is the world's lowest emitter of greenhouse gases, but it is also one of the biggest victims of climate change, whether it be droughts, floods, fires or the degradation of agricultural land. all the warning signs are on, not to mention the increase in cyclones and the retreat of the arctic sea ice. so yes, states need to double down on their climate goals by 2030. and here in the european parliament we have a huge responsibility and we can no longer say things and do the opposite. the right and the liberals, who voted with us in 2019 on the climate emergency and who are doing everything today to empty the environmental texts of the package "fit for 55" of their substance, with the war in ukraine or covid as an alibi, must change their attitude. ladies and gentlemen, you are wrong and you are putting us all in grave danger. solving the major problem of global warming is a matter of life and death and it requires going beyond small political strategies to finally fight for the benefit of all, and in particular the african continent which hosts this cop 27 in november.
mr president, at the world’s climate summit taking place next week or next month, it’s important that progress is made there to tackle climate change. and an international challenge such as this can only be tackled with international cooperation and collaboration. we need governments, business, the public and private sectors to be involved if we are to deliver on our targets of 1.5 degrees. it’s very important the cop27 is taking place in sharm el sheikh in egypt, a country on a continent that is experiencing the severe impacts of climate change. countries such as somalia and ethiopia have severe drought at the moment, which has led to crop failure, shortages of food and of course hunger. and the un has predicted that more than 300 000 people in somalia will be in famine by december of this year. so now is the time for action. i know that we will have a strong message delivered by countries such as somalia and ethiopia and many more nations experiencing the realities and the crisis that is climate change. our fit for 55 package, outlining how europe will move to our 2020 targets, is an important message to bring. but we need more and we need leadership from europe. we also need decisions, strong decisions taken from all players.
mr. chairman, please! running, cycling, sailing. 7,767 kilometers, 38 days and one message: we're running out of time. this slogan has been the theme of the climate relay for 19 days. it starts in glasgow, it's going to end in sharm el-sheikh, and it's going to cross my country in between. in the face of climate change, we need all the staff. the european union, the member states, the regions and the individual countries. everything, from the first to the last. with the paris agreement, we committed to 1.5 degrees of global warming by 2100. do you know where we are now? we're not close. we must strengthen our objectives, make new commitments and, above all, stick to the ones we already have and then to all the others that follow. because... we are witnessing a cataclysm... bigger and bigger and bigger. will some natural disaster really wake us up? because... i would have thought we'd had enough of them by now. and i would have thought that we'd have been aware of it by now. we're running out of time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, could anyone in germany imagine putting a portrait of adolf hitler on display in the chancellery? in italy, on the other hand, the second in command of the state, ignazio la russa, asserts that removing a portrait of mussolini from a ministry is a shameful cultural error, but the president of the senate la russa should be ashamed, because anti-fascism is the foundation of our republic born of the resistance. but italy is now in danger of losing its compass for other reasons. how can we not remember today that berlusconi, after initially condemning the war in moscow with sobs, is now continuing to renew his historic loyalty to the master of the kremlin, even shamelessly claiming that he has recently exchanged gifts and letters with putin, despite the sanctions, and that he is the first of his five true friends. this serious drift of the european people's party affects not only italy but many other countries. it is time for the true moderates and liberals to take a different path, just as it is necessary for the left to know how to do its part without hesitation. in italy we will not stand by and watch this dangerous drift and we will put up a tough opposition in the interests of italians and europeans. europe and italy deserve a real alternative, outside the old compromises of the past, which can give hope to those who have lost it today. we'll give it our all.
mr. president, i have to go. the suppression of human rights, attacks on journalists, brutal attacks on lgbtqi+, disregard for the rule of law, corruption. these are just some of the horrors of the union that some of us have been loudly warning about for years. they show a sense of democratic values, which is responsible for the radical right-wing populist option in our society, but our warnings are repeatedly falling on deaf ears, as evidenced by the rise of illiberal tendencies. the far right uses the legacy of history, often with a twisted interpretation, to mobilize the people and their supporters. in slovenia, for example, the far right is doing this through a sham fight against a long-dead communism, and the union is expressing concern instead of action. in the meantime, the lack of measures and solutions allows the far right to expand further, and as we know, their expansion means the constant destruction of the foundations of the union. we must relieve europe of its kleptocratic, autocratic tendencies and safeguard our values. enough with the blindfolding.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, western balkans is geographically clearly europe. it is also culturally clearly europe. some of us have been working a lot in the past years to get this region closer to the european union but, meanwhile, through the geostrategic events that we see, i think a majority of the house has understood the urgency of bringing this region into the european union. but what we see is that through our actions, through our promises that we do not fulfilled, through keeping the region pending year by year by year, we’re losing more and more public support. let us look at montenegro. well, the fight against organised crime, the fight against smugglers, the actual prosecution of high-ranking politicians and corrupt judges – it is really remarkable. do we really think this government was ousted because of that, that they did the deal with orthodox church? well, if you talk to people in the country, people do not think so. they say it is because of the fight against organised crime that đukanović’s dps withdrew their support. i think we should acknowledge that. let us look at kosovo. for kosovo, again, visa liberalisation was blocked by france and some other states. again, new conditions for the country. like this we will lose the public support of kosovans and we are losing it on. let us see look at bosnia and herzegovina. well, it is a very good step to grant candidate status or at least to propose it. but let us hope the council follows that path, because if the council once again does not follow that path, we will lose the trust of the population again, same as we see in north macedonia because of these bilateral issues with bulgaria. we are losing the trust of local population. we need to speed up the process. otherwise, we leave the region to russia, to china, to arabic states, and i am sure that is not what we all together want to see.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, the enlargement package 2022 for western balkans certainly brings new dynamics to the region and to us. big news is, of course, the bosnia and herzegovina in cohesion with also nato’s security recommendations. this notion should be accompanied by our additional pressure put on serbia in order to fully align with collective west’s policies vis—a—vis russia, in particular, sanctions package. we have to ensure that russian world is not to be replaced by serbian world in the western balkans. i would suggest fast track for albania and north macedonia. in the case of albania, it is important to pay attention to eventual iranian actions because of their generous attitude to the ashraf people transferred to albania. and of course, we have to pay attention to the other countries of the region, supporting them as much as possible.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, accession negotiations have started with albania and north macedonia and, despite extremely worrying political instability marked by deep divisions, we will soon decide on the granting of candidate country status to bosnia and herzegovina. let us agree that this acceleration, or even this haste, which is not always a good adviser, is not due to the objective situation of the countries in question, but to the geopolitical context, that is to say the war in ukraine, and the fact that we had to coordinate our decisions, since we took the decision in favour of moldova and ukraine in an emergency. but i do notice that there is one candidate country which does not enjoy the same eager optimism that we do. that country is serbia and i say that's a pity because serbia is a country that counts in the western balkans. it is the largest in terms of geography, demography and economy. we've opened 22 out of 35 chapters and i think we should be celebrating and not looking like we're dragging our feet. why would you do that? because otherwise we will be accused of applying double standards in the western balkans. i would remind you that serbia voted with us on the russian aggression and the annexation of the four ukrainian territories. so, really, this is a country that is making an effort. i think we should also do that to show that we do not make any difference between all the countries of the western balkans.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. each wave of enlargement has strengthened europe so far, and the accession of the western balkan countries would certainly do so. however, in order to accelerate the process, to achieve real breakthroughs for all candidates and to increase their performance, specific targets and timetables will be needed. this would also increase the eu's credibility and reputation in the eyes of the citizens of the candidate countries. the region has been left behind by the great wave of eastern european enlargement twenty years ago and has been in the eu's waiting room for twenty years. setting a target date would provide a huge motivation for the countries of the region, and could result in the candidate countries increasingly accelerating the reforms they have already begun. this would be useful for the candidate countries and for the eu, especially in a geopolitical situation such as the one we are in now, which is plagued by war. finally, i would like to thank commissioner várhelyi once again for his continued support for the enlargement issue.
i am, unfortunately, disappointed by the decision yesterday of the parliament of both the government and the opposition in north macedonia to create new obstacles for bulgarian organizations in this country, to create an atmosphere of hatred and discrimination against bulgarians in the republic of north macedonia. this has to stop and we have to be together.
madam president! the enlargement policy in the western balkans needs a radical overhaul. the revised methodology did not achieve practically any of the expected process quality objectives. the fundamental objective cannot and must not be merely to meet the technical and legal criteria, but must pursue concrete objectives of substance. it must ensure the transformation of the economies of the candidate countries as well as the transformation of society through the implementation of the principles and values on which the european union is founded. this is already a challenge for many member states, let alone candidate countries. it is therefore time for the eu to develop an approach that addresses the candidate countries individually in the field of the rule of law, democracy and the eu's fundamental values, and adapts measures and policies to the reality of each candidate country. conditionality does not produce the expected results and it is therefore necessary to include additional mechanisms linked to european funds and the functioning of the judiciary, where the european public prosecutor's office can play an important role. the people of the western balkans deserve the same level of legal protection as we enjoy in the european union, even before formal full membership.
madam president, i'm following up on your colleague simon. i agree with everything he said in his speech. it was a huge mistake to close the door to the european union to the balkan countries, and i want to start by making it clear that i support the membership of these countries in the european union. i think that the enlargement policy of the european union should be placed in the priorities of the european union and in the middle of our interests. we've cleared this field, and it's occupied by russia, possibly china. we see ankara's interests here as well. i am absolutely in favour of these countries joining the european union and i think it is also good to take stock of the progress they have made. let it be in a series of chapters they've already filled. i think that there is nothing to prevent bosnia and herzegovina from being granted the status of candidate country. it's just a matter of political will. of course, there is still room for improvement in a number of areas, whether freedom of expression or the protection of minorities, freedom of the press, but a peaceful settlement in the balkans is simply not possible in my view without the permanent membership of these countries in the european union. so, i repeat for the last time, if these countries want it, please let's give them a european future.
madam president, i have to go. imagine this: they make you a promise, but they're lying. they promise again, you wait, they lie again. you feel betrayed, confused. you wait. you become suspicious. you're waiting for more promises, but this time you're not expecting much because you've learned your lesson. a famous band sings this song: "i'll be right back": "empty promises are the best advertising". and so, dear colleagues, our neighbours from the western balkans feel no less european than i, you or anyone else in this room. promises are debt, and we must honor them. and within the union, we must be as strict on the rule of law, media freedom, human rights and all other criteria as we rightly expect from our neighbours. but even within the union, we have a number of countries which are far from being good examples. friends in the balkans, you belong here as much as we do.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i admire your tenacity here tonight in the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is good that we are discussing in parliament what the governments of the member states are doing. they have created the european political community. and i see, to put it in a proverbial way, the glass half full. it is good that all of europe is coming together, that the eu is in a way looking after the whole of europe, because that is also its task, its mission: to bring to everyone on this continent what europe can mean, even if it is a long way off. it would be bad if this european political community led to existing processes of eu integration being put into a kind of drawer, thrown into a pot, and then processes which have advanced very far towards european union possibly being stalled even further than they have already been, especially with the western balkans. in the past, the european union has made many, many mistakes. i can't let that happen again. montenegro is ready to join, and accession negotiations are needed with albania and north macedonia. kosovo and serbia are to be resolved. both belong to the european union, serbia only if serbia also carries european values. bosnia and herzegovina is now a candidate country. the eastern partnership countries the republic of moldova, georgia, ukraine are integrated in a different way. and we need a much better relationship with switzerland and with the united kingdom and northern ireland. azerbaijan and armenia were also represented in the european political community. belarus was represented with the liberation movement. so each state involved has a different status. you have to see beyond that, then you can have the future. and even if there is a parliamentary dimension, it can have a future.
respected ! the european political community is an initiative that has come at the right time for europe and the eu. however, i am not sure that it will produce the results that the geopolitical situation in the wider european area requires. i myself hope and expect that this is the key idea of bringing together the widest possible community of european states, which in the current geopolitical context of tension, when we are facing aggression and attacks, not only on the values and principles on which the eu is founded, but on which the modern post-war world order is based, firmly committed to the defence of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and policies to strengthen international cooperation and respect for international law. so a coalition of countries that not only do not accept, but reject the world based on brute force. and here's the community we need today. the european political community must not become a substitute for the enlargement process, which pursues the objectives of the european union which the european political community cannot achieve.
in writing. russia's unprovoked and illegal military invasion of ukraine and its direct and indirect socio-economic consequences have affected all strata of our society, especially the most vulnerable. the war has shown that the european union's energy security is at risk as long as it is dependent on russia for its natural gas and other energy supplies. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. this is why the commission proposed the repowereu plan in may to make the energy system safer, more affordable, more accessible and more sustainable through the deployment of renewable energy sources. however, citizens are facing a number of new challenges, in particular in meeting basic energy needs that are not addressed in the plan and that can only be solved by a transition to green energy and a rapid reduction in energy dependence on russia. it is necessary to reduce the time-consuming administrative procedures, simplify the complexity of the rules to increase energy efficiency and savings in buildings and accelerate the decarbonisation of the economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the member states, including through the implementation of the energy union strategy.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i will not go into the atrocities that the regime in tehran is committing daily in iran today. it is the aberrant and sickening continuation of realities that we have known for a long time. but i ask this honourable assembly why in this case we do not think of a concrete solution here, as we do in other cases? these days i have been watching with interest and not with reservation a long debate on the declaration of russia, the russian federation or the regime in moscow, the government of the russian federation, as terrorists. in the case of iran, things are clear. the terrorist actions of this regime are very clear, almost many of their actions are close to genocide. why are we not discussing in the same terms these horrible things in iran in the european parliament?
president, the iranian people are an unstoppable wave of pure courage led by women. criminals masquerading as legitimate government have killed hundreds of peaceful protesters, 58 of them children, and imprisoned thousands. but cruelty cannot break the determination of the iranian people. commissioner, i have three questions. 1.when will the eu impose sanctions on all 227 members of the majlis of iran who call for severe punishment of peaceful protesters? the second. the eu and its member states will be supporting the establishment of an international legal mechanism for the islamic republic at the special session of the un human rights council on thursday. the third. what decisive steps will the eu take against the terror of the revolutionary guards? we have a duty to support the brave iranians and the iranian eu citizens who sympathize with them. and i expect action. women, life, freedom, jin, jiyan, azadi. i'm not going to let you down.
madam president, commissioner, the ayatollahs' regime, a theocratic religious fundamentalist, oppresses the entire iranian people. since the age of 79, women, above all, have been the regime's biggest victims. but also the young people, also the men, also the whole of civil society, in every province and in every city. in schools, on the streets, in universities, people of all professions, social strata and ages are demonstrating in an act of great courage against an oppressive and repressive regime. they decree his death. they killed, without looking at the means, children, youths, women, men. we cannot compromise with this situation. we cannot make a deal with an oppressive regime which, moreover, supports russia in its aggression. we have to support the women, the youth, the men of iran. we must do it with the same dignity that the players of the iranian national team revealed yesterday at the world cup in qatar. those are heroes.
madam president, iranian women deserve more. and i also think they expected more from us. they deserve more because they have had the courage to break their silence in the face of a regime that brutally uses the death penalty. before these demonstrations, iran was already the country with the highest number of female executions in a sexist system where legal security for women does not exist. they deserve more because the cry of "women, life and freedom" has mobilized the majority of iranian society against the repression of this regime. the six people on death row deserve more. the 20,000 arrested in the demonstrations deserve more. they deserve that, since we know the names of the judges who are handing these sentences, we sanction them. they deserve us to sanction the at least 227 parliamentarians who are calling for more repression against the protesters. they deserve us to adopt more sanctions against members of the revolutionary guard. they deserve that we rethink our bilateral relations and that we push internationally for an accountability mechanism in the united nations.
madam president, the current situation in iran is extremely concerning. in the last three months, thousands of people have been arrested and more than 600 of them have been killed. and they’ve been killed just because of their fight for a free country and for their fundamental rights. let me express my deepest admiration to all of the iranian citizens who continue to protest despite the horrible situation, mass arrests and extreme violation of their fundamental rights by the regime. six of the arrested people have even been sentenced to death, and many others may face the same fate. this uprising covers the whole country. while a brutal iranian regime supports and supplies weaponry to the criminal russian aggressors, all age groups and all sectors of society are now united in protest against the autocratic regime, together side by side. it is therefore time to act, to express our full support and call for the protection of those whose only sin is a desire for democratic values of their free country. we should not call the current situation a protest; it is really a revolution.
madam president, commissioner, those strong and incredibly courageous women and all those who support them in iran are heroes. and therefore the european union must not be silent but act. since the beginning of the islamic republic, women have protested against the regime’s ideology, often at great risk, while many think now it is a rebellion. i say we are witnessing of a revolution. when women take to the streets, it is a revolution. when women cut their hair, it is a revolution. when women take the hijab off their heads, it is called a revolution. the revolution is against an incredibly patriarchal regime that will not back down from cruelty. we see it. now the demands of iranian women appear so simple and are yet so fundamental. women. life. freedom. dear colleagues, when women march in the streets to fight for freedom, they must know that we, the european union, will support them in their struggle for women’s rights and simply for a free life, no matter what. dear brave iranian women, we stand by and with you.
madam president, the huge protests of iranians in recent weeks shows their will for freedom and democracy. iranians have for long not supported the dictatorial regime of khamenei’s governments. this regime is punishing them with death, violence and oppression. what we see in these days in iran is thousands of victims and imprisoned young people and women, just in the last few weeks. we must clearly condemn this state of violence. who are the iranian regime’s partners today? only dictatorial regimes like north korea, russia and, recently, the hungarian foreign minister is shaking hands with representatives of this regime. we have to stress today that we are on the side of the iranian people and every crime committed in iran will be investigated and punished.
madam president, no, this is not the first time that this european parliament has discussed the unacceptable human rights situation under the islamic republic of iran. but let's face it, we have never seen a rebellious explosion of courage like the one we have seen since the death of mahsa amini at the hands of the "morality police" last september 16. we have seen demonstrations. we have also seen a balance of over 300 dead - according to any objective report - and about 20,000 arrested, including, by the way, two spaniards, a man and a woman. a european parliament resolution is not going to bring down the iranian regime, is it? but it can be a wake-up call, not only to the external action of the european union, with all its influence, 'hard power', and of the member states to join forces to demand the immediate release of all those detained, the outlawing of all forms of torture and ill-treatment and, of course, the death penalty inflicted on those people who are fighting for freedom and who have all the support under that slogan that we have chanted this afternoon in english: 'woman, life, freedom'.
- thank you. - thank you. iran is a country with a beautiful landscape. it might even be idyllic if it didn't have the government it has. if only we weren't watching the ongoing repression of people, the denial of basic rights, the death penalty, the arbitrary arrests with torture, the murders of protesters. but it was this repression, this tragic cruel fate of mahse amini and many others that this time had the opposite effect. they brought iranians together in the revolution. they brought together all walks of life, old, young, ethnic minorities, oil industry workers, elite athletes. iranian football players boycotted the national anthem at the world cup. and in doing so, they put the significance of this revolution on the world stage. they have clearly joined the fight, which has been led by women in iran. so a fight for women's rights that actually gets support from all over the world, including this house. we've cut off all contact with iran. and it is. the women! the life! freedom is free!
madam president, officer, i have to go. i'll start again. can i start again? sorry, my throat is a little bit sore. my fellow members of parliament! the time has come for the enlargement process of the union to be really accelerated. europe cannot afford the luxury of listening to the accession of the western balkan countries. many claim that the eu's influence in the region has weakened. i regret to say that in the last few years the european parliament has actively contributed to this through its decisions, and this report is one of them. you can't increase trust and influence by continually tightening the bar. we hungarians know very well that the eu conditionality mechanisms are based on a wrong logic. it would be a mistake to extend these to the candidate countries as a means of influence. serbia and the countries of the western balkans do not need such decisions, but sincere support and a timetable for accession. such decisions do not help but rather hinder enlargement and the work that the commission is doing.
mr president, commissioner várhelyi, (please i will speak croatian) it is difficult to say in one minute what this strategy should mean for the western balkans, but here, the focus is as always on what has not been done and what should be done. my message to bosnia and herzegovina is congratulations, i see coalitions are being made. i want the future coalition to finally change the electoral law and make constitutional changes that will put bosnia and herzegovina at the forefront of the western balkans in the european union. there's no time for that. we've wasted time. this is the last moment when people can come to their senses and instead of exiling what is best in bosnia and herzegovina, leave it to build a country, a country of peace, a country of stability, a country that will expand and that will pull the western balkans forward. and for everyone else, respect the minorities, respect all those who are not different and who are smaller and weaker than you because that is the only way to get you to europe. - i'm glad you did.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, rule of law, human rights, gender equality, minority rights, alignment with a policy of environmental sustainability, common foreign policy: the european union must not be left to the mercy of the european parliament, which is the only institution in the world that can do so. the last few months, during which we have seen the peace of europe threatened, have reminded us that enlargement policy is a decisive instrument for the european union. opening up our family by sharing values and responsibilities will strengthen the union, increasing its centrality in the international geopolitical framework. we do not give discounts to countries waiting to join, especially when it comes to values, democracy and rights. i would, however, urge europe to strengthen its credibility vis-à-vis the countries concerned. we are shortening the time to prevent citizens from losing hope, as is happening in serbia, where the percentage of citizens in favour of accession is falling month by month and is already below 50%. we are introducing qualified majority voting to prevent regional backlash from jeopardizing the project. we make citizens feel the benefits of being part of europe during the accession process, not just at the end. at the same time, i call on the applicant countries to demonstrate their determination to become members of europe by adopting and implementing reforms that guarantee the rule of law and, at this difficult time, alignment with european foreign and security policy.
respected ! let us ask ourselves, what is the purpose of enlargement today? is it a tool of geopolitical deterrence against china, russia, turkey? is the aim to strengthen the stability of democracy and prosperity on the european continent and its final integration? what is the real purpose of enlargement? unfortunately, the answer to this question is not uniform across the eu. there is no single answer, neither in this house, nor in the commission, nor in the eu council. the enlargement process is therefore becoming more of a process aimed at responding to current developments in europe, where countries are becoming candidates without conditions. at the same time, we are setting almost unattainable conditions for other countries in the same situation, such as bosnia. on the one hand, we tolerate a slip to authoritarianism in candidates like serbia, but we cannot reward candidates like north macedonia who are making progress. on the contrary, by our actions, and more often by inaction, we create the conditions for the strengthening of undemocratic forces within them. enlargement has thus become a cacophony of interests that ensure the status quo, where enlargement seems to be happening while nothing substantial changes or happens. we need a clearly defined enlargement policy with clearly defined conditions for entry into the process and for membership of the european union, together with mechanisms that would also ensure the achievement of the enlargement objectives.
in writing. since 2015, i have consistently stressed the need for a european solution in the area of asylum and migration. seven years after the peak of the refugee and migrant crisis in europe, we are sadly still witnessing political deadlock over solutions that would ensure genuine solidarity between countries in managing migration instead of maintaining border controls at the internal borders of the schengen area, mutual blame and burden-sharing among the most burdened member states, especially at the southern and south-eastern external borders of the eu. the lack of political will only benefits organised crime, which profits from the smuggling and trafficking of people into a further chain of abuse on the european continent. it is unacceptable that member states turn a blind eye to such abuses and continue to allow people to die on the eu's doorstep and in the process of illegally crossing national borders, because they are forced to do so by the absence of regulated migration routes. european and national policies share responsibility for the many lives lost prematurely, such as the tragic death this week of a 21 year old nepalese woman who was paralysed in primorye. i welcome the european commission's action plan for migration management in the central mediterranean, but it cannot replace the reform of the eu's dublin system, which would ensure a more solidarity-based burden-sharing and collective responsibility of member states, european institutions and competent agencies for the consistent respect of all human rights.
madam president, i have to go. this week, the european parliament also took another good step forward on gender equality and women's rights. so i have to congratulate my colleagues evelyn, lara and others on the adoption of the gender balance directive for non-executive directors of listed companies. but that doesn't mean we've done everything we need to do. and this zero tolerance issue of violence against women, children, is something that we all need to address. we must all speak out, so that we can ratify the istanbul convention at the level of the european union. by supporting the commission in bringing european legislation into line with the istanbul convention. but above all, we need to respond so that victims know they're not alone. and that we can help them. that's why we're here, to do everything we can. - thank you. - thank you.
madam president! the european year of youth is coming to an end, or, if you prefer, the european year of youth is not yet over. this means that it is somewhat difficult today to determine his ultimate success or to speak in sufficient detail or concretely about his legacy. instead, of course, we can talk about concrete proposals to improve the living conditions of young people. there are a lot of areas that need to be dealt with, we all know that, and it's impossible to list them in a minute, but it's possible to say, sorry we didn't manage to do that this year. we've managed to do a number of events, that's true, of course, and i absolutely support that, but it's not enough. nor can we replace all the past or future with such activities. unfortunately, young people do not have a single law, directive or act that is aimed at them alone, so we must ensure that they are always put first. i did. with the young and for the young. it's the least we owe them.
(speech begins with microphone off) ... for a word. in all such discussions, i would first like to mention that the european union is also a party to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. so we must commit ourselves legally and politically to the highest standards. and also this symbolic message that we will be receiving in the week after the international day of persons with disabilities and human rights, is actually used for this. firstly, it is the european funds that we really need to use to make the transition from institutional to independent and community living, where access to quality care and support is also a precondition. secondly, it is about equal mobility, because i am proud that slovenia is one of the pioneers of the european disability benefit card, which must become a permanent european project, and at the same time, when the commission introduces this card, it should also introduce the european disability status for the automatic mutual recognition of the status and rights of all disabled people in europe, because we are parties to this convention. - thank you. - thank you.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, thank you for your speech. mr prime minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is europe. i am pleased that slovenia and the government of dr robert goloba, through this debate and their involvement in the european arena, are demonstrating that slovenia is part of a core europe and of the efforts to achieve a more cohesive and more solidary european union. for a european union at the service of the people. a sincere commitment to these values is best demonstrated in times of great trial, in the post-pandemic period, the war on our doorstep and the energy crisis. slovenia has actively participated in the search for a common european way out of the energy crisis, where as a small country it understands very well that the solution can only be joint, solidary and european. mr prime minister, i would like to encourage you to continue these efforts and to join slovenia in additional measures at home and at european level to reduce household costs and help small and medium-sized enterprises. at the same time, the burden of solidarity with the most vulnerable in this crisis needs to be shifted to all sectors, from energy and pharmaceutical companies to the banking sector, which have benefited greatly from this and previous crises. i am convinced that together we can do it and show the countries waiting to join the union that we are on their side. with the serious situation in the balkans and the war in ukraine, our message must be clear. europe and therefore the european union is and will be the home of all those who want to live in it in democracy, freedom and peace?
mr president, dear commissioner, dear prime minister robert golob. first, a short comment to our conservative colleagues. geographically, slovenia is an alpine republic, and the former speaker from your party, it was your government leaving a devastated health care system to your successor. so don’t blame the new government for your failures. but now, coming to my actual speech, thank you so much for coming to the european parliament and congrats once again for securing a progressive, a pro-european, a liberal-democracy-oriented majority in my so dear to my heart neighbouring and also partly living country, slovenia. thank you so much for that. and also i want to personally thank you for your strong support for the integration of western balkan countries towards european union. it’s very important to have you as one of the pillars of further negotiations. we need to accelerate. we need to keep our promises. it’s important for the citizens, but it’s also important in terms of security, economy and environment. so thank you very much for that. indeed, i also have a critical question that i would like to ask you, and this is especially towards you as an energy expert. you know that nuclear energy takes a long time to be built. you know that it is causing harm to environment. you know that krško is built on an earthquake line, on a geological instable region. and you know that renewable energy is much cheaper and much more effective than nuclear energy. please explain to us why do you want to build the second block, while slovenia has all the options on the table to go for solar? and please also tell us how you will enable households to also deliver electricity to the system and not just supply themselves.
mr president, prime minister, thank you for your inspiring vision on energy, food, freedom, for what it represents for europe. slovenia has made an extraordinary journey since it became an independent state, and especially since it joined the european union. today it is a model in many ways, and i believe it can help the union as a whole at a time of very high risks which have been aggravated by the russian aggression against ukraine. slovenia can help make people understand that europe’s strength lies in the diversity of its people, and that the more diverse we are, the more efficient we are; that we can ensure the well—being of citizens in a more effective and sustainable way; and that we can better ensure fundamental rights. respect for this diversity is the key of the future of the union, and in this sense slovenia, as you mentioned, has a very important role to play.
a uachtaráin, thank you, prime minister, for joining us today to share your views on the future of europe. i welcome you to this timely debate. we are currently at a critical juncture for europe and for european democracy, facing significant challenges both internally and externally. looking internally, events within the european parliament over the recent days have shaken our trust in our institution. allegations that have come to light of possible corruption cases involving meps and parliament staff are deeply troubling. there is no place for corruption in european democracy, and these developments will warrant a period of deep reflection and reform. beyond our plenary chamber we are facing unprecedented challenges in europe. war in ukraine and the ensuing energy and cost—of—living crisis pose new tests for the eu and call for further cooperation between member states. as citizens and businesses worry this christmas about keeping the lights and heating on, we must ensure that the eu continues to deliver for its citizens. unity is more important than ever. as leader of a small european member state i am confident that you understand this, prime minister. ireland and slovenia are alike in this regard. as small member states we share a common understanding that together we are stronger than apart. indeed, slovenia joined the european union during ireland’s council presidency in 2004. having witnessed the enormous benefits that european union membership has delivered for my country in terms of economic, social and cultural opportunities, it was a pleasure to hear that ireland played this small role in slovenia’s journey. looking forward, the shared challenges we now face are significant: no single country can handle these alone. there is huge strength in unity and i hope to continue to see slovenia and ireland grow together within the eu.
mr president, and welcome to the european parliament. i appreciate this opportunity to have a dialogue and i saw you spoke from your heart. we all know the greetings of the past government, janša’s government, and we are so happy that only in 5 months and 12 days you have delivered. not everything can be changed, but you see the government building the common europe and showing that the small country can play an active role on the way forward on the transition that is so important even in the time of the crisis. your greetings on the energy systems i could not agree with more. it needs to be a clean transition and we need to get rid of the speculators on the markets. and this day, when the people are seeing the prices of energy, also your government will put a lot of help for their citizens. dear colleagues, i think what we heard today also on the importance of rule of law, it may not be unanswered that we can send greetings to the slovenian parliament. thank you for giving same—sex marriage rights also to citizens in slovenia, as we have worked here for the rule of law, it is important the national government is doing the very same thing.
madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in seven decades the european union has grown from a peaceful political project into a genuine political community. together, we are setting global standards for people on climate policy, digital rights, healthy food, democratic values. is everything perfect? it's not. in the course of this political evolution, an overly complex bureaucratic apparatus has also grown up, which is hardly adapted to the constantly new challenges or crises of our time. we've made great strides in the last few years. of course that's true. the climate policy mentioned above, and in particular the recovery and resilience fund. great, but where are we today? in the current situation, which is brought about by the criminal war in ukraine and the energy crisis, despite all the efforts and achievements, i see a lack of ambition at union level, also in other areas. i would also like to see unity in the joint responses to alleviate this crisis and a common framework for the investments needed for a green europe independent of all authoritarian states in terms of energy. repowereu, the joint gas purchase, the electricity price caps are a good idea and in these days when we are discussing the unfair us anti-inflationary act towards the european union, we should also find the political will for a european response, for example the establishment of a new flexible fund to deal with crises. he's forcing the veto in the council to unacceptable compromises. corruption at the systemic level in the member states, not to mention the obviously individual ones, even here in this house it eats into our credibility. for this reason too, and above all to allow flexibility by expanding the union's fiscal capacity, institutional reforms are necessary, by opening up the fundamental treaties, abolishing consensus, democratising our processes and establishing a genuine european public discourse. that is why such agreements are important and why the discussions are so substantive, except for certain... (speaker is running out of time)
madam president, dear commissioner, i fully subscribe to the conclusion of the commission’s 2022 report on the rule of law that states that independent and free media are the watchdogs of democracy and are key for the rule of law. free media is helping to inform and empower citizens and allow them to contribute to the democratic debate. therefore, i underline the importance that both local and national media reflect the cultural, linguistic and social diversity of our societies. unfortunately, journalists and other media actors continue to face violence, threats and harassment in the european union. recent legislative reforms have limited these abuses in our member states, and i welcome supportive action by the commission in this regard. but more needs to be done. we need to safeguard transparency of ownership and funding of media providers. we should establish actions that help in the fight against disinformation and provide measures for the prevention of corruption. journalists deserve to operate with a free mind and without external pressure.
i have to say, madam president, daphne caruana galizia, jan kuciak, lyra mckee, peter de vries and giorgos karaivaz persons who have been murdered in the course of their journalistic work in europe in the last five years. there's nothing we can do for them today. what we can do is take our task here and now seriously. because wherever journalists are putting their lives on the line, wherever democracy is threatened, wherever the power of untruth is growing, we in the european parliament will be the ones fighting for freedom of expression, fighting for journalism without fear of attack. we are doing nothing less than defending the essential elements of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people. we all need the european media freedom act. this bill is supposed to protect female journalists from spyware, surveillance, attacks. but above all, it must protect us. because our free and independent media are the foundation of a democratic and free society. let us think of the beginning of the russian war of aggression against ukraine. think of the flood of untruths that has come upon us. let us remember how urgently we need real coverage of the eu's external borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let's fight for it!
madam president! thank you, thank you! ensuring the safety of journalists is a prerequisite for effective media freedom, which is one of the foundations of the rule of law. we set standards in all reports, action plans, legislative proposals, with varying degrees of success, to ensure their safety at union level. we also often mention the quality of reporting, which affects the credibility of the information provided. quality, however, is steadily declining with the rise of disinformation, interference in editorial policy and censorship or self-censorship. we're at a point where simply mentioning the importance of quality reporting isn't enough. let's get this straight. not everyone can be a journalist just because they want to be on tv, let alone because they want to fulfill the wishes of a politician. what do i want to say? that we lack clearly defined standards for determining the quality of journalistic practice to ensure an important aspect of the rule of law. it's time to set them up. maybe in the freedom of the press act.
