mr president, dear colleagues, i was 10 years old the first time i picked up the phone and a nazi told me that i didn’t belong in sweden, where i was born and raised. he said he would kill me and my family if we didn’t leave the country – my home country. the threats never stopped, but my fear became anger and my anger became political action. i am european. i am elected by the people. a member of this house. and i stand before you as the greens/efa candidate for president of this parliament. to those of you who keep telling me that i don’t belong, you are wrong. the pro-democratic majority of this house will never allow you to define who belongs to this parliament or to our european family. standing here today my thoughts go to our dear colleague, the late president sassoli. he will be remembered for his seemingly effortless commitment to the european project and the work of this house. let us honour his legacy by standing up together for fundamental rights, european solidarity and a european union for all. there are three little words written at the bottom of every resolution, every report and every legislative position in this house. three small words that connect us all: united in diversity. i believe in a european parliament of diversity, but believing in diversity as a strength also means we must defend this european project. the fundamental rights of eu citizens and the rules of democracy are not negotiable. as your president, i will listen to and learn from those who stand up for their rights and our common future. from young people demanding climate justice to minorities demanding a seat at the table and brave europeans risking their own safety to help migrants at our common borders. when governments tell our citizens that they do not have the right to decide over their own bodies, we must stand with them. as your president, i would honour the legacy of the former president simon veil with an initiative to reward individuals and organisations fighting for sexual and reproductive health and rights wherever they are challenged in europe. dear colleagues, we must earn and protect the trust of our citizens by delivering on the biggest challenges that people around europe face today. so let this parliament be a force for social justice, green transition and fair recovery for all. this parliament has declared a climate emergency. let us act on it by ensuring that the commission delivers on the green deal. let’s raise the bar for climate action and the protection of biodiversity, and let’s earn the title as guardian of the treaties, when the commission fails to fulfil this role. this house must lead by example. as your president, i will work tirelessly for a european parliament where diversity is an asset, not a disadvantage. zero tolerance on sexism is possible. let us make anti-harassment training mandatory. let’s create an equal workplace with flexible methods. let’s ensure transparency and internal democracy in this house, ending the time of back-room dealings. let us practice what we preach by making sure our own institution is a front-runner in the green transition. for example, by adding solar panels on the 20 000 square metres of flat roof available on our buildings here in strasbourg. we have had the courage to take on the commission and the council when it was necessary in the past. as your president, i will fight for a feminist parliament that defends and protects. let us be courageous again. mr president, colleagues, before i finish. you cannot be what you cannot see. to all the 10-year-old girls out there who are told that you do not belong, with this candidacy i want to show you that you do. the european parliament, this house, is yours.
madam speaker, mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i welcome the priorities of the french presidency, but the work of the eu must not stop at the fine print. we must act now. that is a great responsibility on your shoulders, mr. president. the ongoing pandemic requires continued cooperation and coordination to ensure that more people are vaccinated. the eu must take a clear leadership role in the green transition, and this is urgent. our green gift must be gender mainstreamed. one third of women in the eu are unemployed. girls and women are subjected to violence every day, and it is time for an equal europe now. we can't wait for decades. finally, i would like to say that i come from sweden, and that your promise of minimum wages, of ensuring respect for each country's national model, is important for my sweden and for our party model.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, if you only knew how i’ve been looking forward to this day. when i was preparing the hearing in this parliament for my second mandate, we discussed what our ambitions should be for the digital services act. and here we are, two years later, because of hard, dedicated, coordinated work in this house. i would very much like to thank the rapporteur, christel schaldemose, for her work and, of course, also the rapporteurs of the associated committees, and the encouragement that it has been for us in the commission to see the interest for so many committees and so many members of this house to make sure that technology serves citizens in our union. shadow rapporteurs, members of your committees, have worked dedicated on this important file and we have come a long way in these 12 months from the tabling of the proposal to the debate that we have today. we also have the general approach unanimously adopted in the council. with today’s debate and the vote that is getting started, i think we are sending a very clear signal to citizens: our democracy has the strength to deal with this; our democracy has the strength to set the rules so that citizens are in charge. it is a unique position that the union has a very strong rulebook that will be enforced fast. this, of course, means further removing barriers to the digital single market, empowering people to make real choices and giving more responsibility to those who provide us digital services. and the guiding principles have already been stated and they remain fundamental: making the internet safer for everyone who’s there, protecting each and every one of us from illegal content, including, of course, unsafe or unauthorised products, while securing the freedom of expression online. this means that it’s not just a slogan to say what is illegal offline should also be illegal online; what is legal offline should also be legal online. it is not just a slogan. with this work that you have done, you have put muscle to the bone. you are making it real. of course, making it real comes with enforcement, and that, of course, comes from the clarity of the regulation, that it can be enforced in a well—resourced, strong system. that requires cooperation in europe, and i think that you as a legislator should expect this, that once we are done with this legislation it will be enforced strongly and fast to the benefit of every citizen and in respect of the legislator.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i would like to say how pleased i am to be here today, in front of you, in front of all of you, to debate a proposal that is very close to my heart, as i believe it is to all of us, and which, as you know, has occupied me since the first day i took office as european commissioner: of course, this famous digital services act. to hold this debate in plenary, a year, almost to the day, barely a day after our 2020 proposal, is a clear indication of the absolutely extraordinary work, i would like to say here, that each and every one of you has done. i would therefore like to begin by expressing my deep gratitude to you and, above all, to mrs christel schaldemose, who has done an absolutely exceptional job of bringing us all together today to have this debate. with this plenary session today and the vote that will follow, we are taking a step which i believe we can call historic and which we all hope will put an end to what we can call the wild west that dominated our information space. just a year ago, as everyone here remembers, we were struck by the images of protesters storming the us capitol on capitol hill, marking, i think, a before and after in the role of digital platforms on our democracy, on our democracies. what we have experienced was probably the culmination of years of unchecked hate speech, incitement to violence, disinformation and destabilisation strategies, spread unchecked on social networks, and from which these networks have, it must be admitted, profited greatly. it became clear to everyone that the absence of rules and controls, including democratic control, over the decisions of a handful of large platforms that have now become systemic public spaces, was no longer tolerable. a few weeks before these incidents, the commission had just presented the dsa and the dma which, in response to the strong expectations of our citizens, proposed a complete reorganisation of our information space. because our citizens expect a strong message from europe to the big platforms that have a growing influence on our lives and on our democracies. we also had the opportunity to hear, for example, the testimony of mrs frances haugen, the digital giant's whistleblower, whom i had the opportunity to meet personally with the dsa rapporteur, christel, and this was highlighted during these talks which confirm that there is not only an urgency to legislate, but also an imperative, and i repeat it here, in front of all of you, not to lower our ambitions. with the dsa, we have created an innovative system that i would like to summarize in four main points. first, we propose clear rules, finally, for the removal of all illegal online products, services or content, with a simple principle, which has been recalled: everything that is prohibited offline must be prohibited online. new obligations are also imposed on very large platforms, based on risk to prevent abuse, as was done with the prudential rules for banks. in addition, the commission will have very significant supervisory and sanctioning powers for these systemic platforms: fines of up to 6% of annual turnover, and even temporary exclusion from the internal market in the event of serious and repeated infringements. we are also opening up, and this is the third point, the black box of algorithms, by imposing transparency measures on platforms to finally understand the reasons why this or that citizen - we have all been the target, often the victim - is targeted by certain content or certain advertisements. finally, we ensure that all these rules are applied uniformly throughout europe, throughout the european union. and of course, these rules will apply to all actors, whether european or not. in just over a year, we have made remarkable progress with the european parliament and the council. i am convinced that we will be able to adopt these proposals together under the french presidency - as the president of the french republic said a few moments ago in this house - by the end of june. the work of the european parliament's committee on the internal market shows that we share the same level of ambition and the same sense of urgency. we will of course remain extremely vigilant together and i welcome the fact that, in this institution too, the increased lobbying efforts we have seen have proved to be in vain. we will not let corporate interests interfere with the general interest of european citizens. europe is the first continent in the world to undertake a comprehensive reform of our digital space. with the dsa and the dma, we are on the verge of reorganizing our digital space in our great internal market, both in terms of the social aspects and also in terms of the economic aspects. a new framework that can perhaps become, without doubt, a benchmark for democracies around the world. today's debate is therefore extremely important for all of us in europe and beyond, and we will therefore be listening to it very carefully.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce this directive. with the dsa, we have the opportunity to create a milestone in the regulation of online services at union level. this opportunity is used in many points in the present draft, but it is also missed in a number of important points. unfortunately, the opinion of the cult committee was not adequately taken into account in the draft report. the dsa, as it stands, will have serious negative consequences for sectors of the cultural, sports and media sectors. we leave it to the big platforms of our european media to regulate on their terms, if necessary by house rules. media service providers are already highly regulated at both union and national level and are required to adhere to professional editorial standards, regardless of how their content and services are consumed. it is important to protect editorial independence in the media sector. we have already adopted media legislation at european level to deal with cases of disinformation. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. and that is something the commission would have to do if it was to work. media content that is legal offline must be legal online, just as illegal media content online should be illegal offline. making offers to online media is not like buying socks. i would therefore like to ask you to support the amendments tabled by the members of the cult and juri committees. let's take this chance.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! i'd like to start by thanking the counter-reporters. through good cooperation with political groups, we have created a draft opinion that improves the situation of women by committing internet service providers to prevent discrimination, combat violence and respond to user signals. we also drew attention to the particular situation of children who are often abused online. we have required isps to develop codes of conduct and to take remedial action. some of our demands were included in the final version of the imco report. we have a long way to go, but we have made progress in protecting children from inappropriate content and women from cyberbullying.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, today the european parliament will send a strong signal that we want a digital market and an internet with clear rules for businesses and safety for users. the internet has made our lives so much better. we can all stay in touch with friends and family, access information, shop online and participate in the public debate, and it will continue to revolutionise the world and humanity in ways we cannot even imagine right now. however, our citizens must also feel safe online. today, we are exposed to illegal content on websites with fraud, disinformation, foreign interference and dangerous products. i’m glad that we – as european lawmakers – have listened to these concerns, and i’m proud that we have been able to unite behind a strong proposal in the digital services act – the dsa. for me, as the negotiator for the largest political force in this house, three things are most important. firstly, that we are now creating a framework to remove illegal content more quickly. this will put an end to the digital wild west, where the biggest platforms are setting the rules and criminal content is going viral. secondly, we want to ensure that the internet remains an open space. the dsa will strengthen the rights for users, increase transparency online and protect freedom of speech. platforms will no longer censor opinions or block accounts without any explanation, and users will be able to contest these decisions taken by the platforms. thirdly, we need a unified digital market where entrepreneurs and start-ups can easily compete, without trade barriers or massive bureaucracy. with the dsa, tech companies in the eu will follow one set of rules, not 27 sets of rules. right now, we are letting the us and china run the show in several areas, and it’s time for europe to take the lead in the global digital race. so let’s make the dsa a worldwide example for a better digital future with safety, openness and innovation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! facebook and google have repeatedly shown that they want to make the internet a forum for specially selected perspectives and opinions. as a swedish democrat, i want a free and open arena for thoughts, ideas and exchanges of views. it is the very basis of democracy and development. the proposal we are voting on tomorrow has its points, but unfortunately, on the whole, it does more harm than good. i welcome proposals that promote law enforcement, transparency and consumer protection, but i strongly reject the idea of letting opinion police and private companies decide what constitutes harmful content online. the line should be drawn at illegality, nowhere else. freedom of speech is the foundation of free thought and problem solving. what is controversial today may be taken for granted tomorrow. we need freedom of ideas and opinions, not censorship or central government, not from silicon valley or from brussels.
mr president, commissioner, members of the house, i would like to thank you for your work. from the crowd in the tear gas cloud, the sound of terror and slogans is heard. the strong vocal bands of the protesters are creating sunken frames. it is the sound of devotion and a stubborn proof that hong kong people are willing to die for their freedom. so writes swedish liberal author simona mohamsson in her book hong kong rip. the battle for hong kong is bigger than the fate of a city. it's a deal about china's influence in the world. the beijing olympics are about to open. the eu member states should jointly implement a diplomatic boycott of the games. it is an opportunity for us, for the free world, to unite in our wholehearted support for a free hong kong. however, i note that my own country, sweden, among others, does not dare to take this obvious decision.
mr president, freedom, democracy and social justice are core values of the european union. we need to stand up for them within our union, as well as defend them beyond. in recent weeks, we have witnessed the people of kazakhstan take to the streets to protest against social and economic inequalities, corruption and authoritarian governance. a president that instructs his military to fire live ammunition against his own people does not respect human rights. a president that shuts down the internet in order to limit the voice of his journalists and his citizens does not respect freedom of expression. a president that prohibits mass gatherings to silence his population violates the right to assembly. it is our duty as political leaders to listen to the voice of the kazakh people, to call for an independent investigation into recent events, and to sanction the authorities behind the actions. silence may not cost us anything, but for the people of kazakhstan, it costs everything. let’s act now.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank ms fitzgerald for her strong position. fru talman! förra året antog vi här i parlamentet ett historiskt betänkande om sexuell och reproduktiv hälsa och rättigheter (srhr). jag önskar att vi kunde fira segrar och framgångar, men vi kan aldrig ta detta för givet. srhr handlar inte bara om sexuell och reproduktiv hälsa och rättigheter. det handlar om demokrati, rättvisa, jämställdhet. srhr är en förutsättning för att kvinnor och flickor ska kunna bestämma över sig själva och sina kroppar. varje dag utsätts flickor och kvinnor för våld och sexuella övergrepp. vi har medlemsstater i vår union där kvinnor förvägras rätten till abort. srhr stärker vår union om vi vågar gå framåt och säkra dessa rättigheter så att vi kan ge våra invånare möjlighet att vara självständiga människor. det innebär nämligen en utveckling, både politiskt och ekonomiskt, för vår union. jag förväntar mig att vårt parlament står upp för varje människas rätt att själv kunna bestämma över sin egen kropp, och att varje medlemsstat tar sitt fulla ansvar för att värna dessa rättigheter. året är 2022, och varje dag utsätts flickor och kvinnor för våld och sexuella övergrepp, varje dag äventyrar vi små barns liv, barn som ska behöva växa upp med våld och sexuella övergrepp, antingen genom att de själva utsätts eller genom att de blir utsatta för det i sin egen familj, av närstående eller andra som berör barnet. det är dags att vi står upp för detta. vi har ett bra betänkande. se till att vi tar fighten så att dessa rättigheter når alla eu:s invånare nu.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. my body, my choice. these four words should suffice, but in today's europe we must once again take up the fight and defend the rights for which generations of progressive women and girls before us risked their lives. in recent years we have seen how in countries with conservative and nationalist governments, such as hungary and poland, attempts are being made to restrict the right to information, sex education and health care in the form of abortion. in my own country, sweden, right-wing conservatives dress up their opposition to abortion in terms of freedom of conscience, as if there is any conscience in denying anyone health care and the right to their own body. srhr hatred has a devastating effect on young people, as knowledge and education have a decisive effect on sexuality, relationships and norm-setting. you might think that these medieval conservatives should have been confronted with the reality of women and girls through the powerful narratives of the me too movement, but the reality seems hard for them to understand. as regards the right to abortion, extreme abortion laws in poland have already harvested lives. let us never forget izabela, who lost her life at the hands of the right-wing conservatives in poland. let us introduce the lex izabela in the eu to ensure that not a single woman or girl has to pay the ultimate price: her life. today it's poland, but tomorrow it could be sweden. no one is safe when right-wing conservatives and nationalists spread their tentacles. colleagues, let's step up the struggle against conservatism and nationalism and defend women's rights and freedom.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european union is not only the richest region in the world, it is also the region with the most freedoms and the greatest diversity. it's a fact to be proud of. it's a fact to be defended. we cannot, we must not accept that the eu is made up of an a-law and a b-law: one law which has the right to enjoy these freedoms and rights and another law which does not. the women of poland and malta are citizens of the european union just as much as you and i. it's a shame that we leave their right to make decisions about their own bodies in the hands of value-conservative power brokers. how can we credibly and forcefully defend and fight for women whose rights are being controlled by religious extremists who oppress them in countries like afghanistan, iran, the united states and the philippines, when we fail even to defend the rights of our own citizens? when right-wing populists join forces with ultraconservative and religious groups, it is women's liberties and rights that are attacked first. it is sad and frightening that conservative parties should so easily open their doors to far-right forces, at the cost of women's freedom. the fight continues.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i was going to say "kiitos", but instead i'll say "thank you" in swedish. we have all seen the horrific images of neglected animals crammed into cramped spaces without enough water and food, during nightmarish long journeys across europe. unfortunately, however, our work in the committee for the last year and a half has only confirmed what we already knew. the transport of animals within the eu is too long and often, unfortunately, directly harmful to the animals. many of the existing rules are not being followed in several of the countries, and the controls are too few and simply bad. exports of live animals to non-eu countries continue to increase, often to countries with significantly worse animal welfare legislation than we have within the eu. but today we really have the opportunity to do something about this. we have the chance to take a stand for animals by reducing transport times to a maximum of eight hours and ensuring that no animals are subjected to round-the-clock transport outside the eu.
madam president, i would like to thank you. transmission problems, low availability, volatile price increases, dependence on russian gas and chinese components. negative impact on the environment and fisheries. technology from the 1850s. does this really sound like a winning strategy? something for the future? no, this massive investment in offshore wind power may be one of the most unrealistic things i've heard in the european parliament. do you really not understand the consequences of your decisions? for ordinary people, for the electricity system, for competitiveness and, ultimately, for the environment. it's time to stop dreaming now and do it again and do it right.
madam president, i would like to thank you. muslim children are ripped from the womb and taken away at birth by swedish authorities as part of a war against islam. these lies are being spread on channels with millions of followers by violent extremists, islamist organizations and influencers, criminal clan families and imams with terrorist ties, state-controlled, foreign media and radical imams at home; they are spreading the message further. what's the real world like? these children have been taken into lawful custody for their protection. like the mohammed cartoons, there is a real risk of violence and terrorist acts, while swedish governmental authority is at risk of being put out of action. the foreign office's communication budget to counter disinformation has doubled since 2002. has the eu done anything at all to help sweden in this situation?
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner, what is it? 1.3 million people die of cancer every year in europe and many more are diagnosed. every single one of us in this room is affected by cancer. the disease doesn't just affect the person who gets the diagnosis. it affected family, friends, and society in general. the report calls for concrete action at all levels, and that is good. the decisions taken in our union must be based on science and research. we know that we dramatically improve the chances of surviving cancer through research. it is also critical to attach great importance to prevention, as this report points out. around 40% of all cancers in the eu could be prevented by preventive measures. we are aware of the dangers of tobacco, for example. it is therefore necessary to apply the precautionary principle in legislation when developing new tobacco products, not least to protect those most at risk. it's about our young people and the same goes for alcohol. it is therefore good that the report highlights the research on the carcinogenicity of alcohol. we need to listen to the science and put people's health first. we social democrats demand that equality and gender equality be a key element in the fight against cancer. today, on international childhood cancer day, let us show that we take responsibility for ensuring that all eu citizens can rely on equitable and effective cancer care of high quality. it saves lives.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i'm pretty sure that everyone in this room has, or knows someone who has, fought cancer or is fighting cancer. we still haven't solved the mystery of how we're going to cure cancer. that is why the european parliament's cancer strategy is in so many ways a victory and an important step towards how we can work within the eu to eradicate cancer. the way to do this is through education, research and dedicated work. if we learn from what we've just been through with covid-19, it's very clear that when the eu decides to do something and mobilizes, we can do more. even those who are consistently opposed to eu cooperation should realize this. the fight against cancer doesn't start today, it's been going on for a long time, but today we begin the next powerful step in our collective work to eradicate cancer.
in writing. i am very pleased that the european parliament has taken up such an important issue as the treatment and prevention of cancer in europe. it was on the initiative of the epp group and our polish delegation to the po-psl that a special committee on the fight against cancer was set up in parliament, and we are looking at the results of its work during this plenary session. the report adopted by the committee drew attention to inequalities in the prevention and treatment of cancer in the member states. we don't agree that the chance of survival and the quality of treatment should be determined by the postal code. we need to establish european-wide quality standards for cancer treatment, as well as a review of the existing legal framework for access to cross-border healthcare, including the right to a second opinion. the creation of an eu register of inequalities could also be an important solution, allowing the situation to be monitored and challenges to be diagnosed. it's very important to equalise access to medicines. strengthen the union market for medicines, diversify supply chains and closely monitor any shortages, as well as the supply of strategic stocks of medicines and raw materials. the european medicines agency can play a key role in this. and finally, cancer patients should not be punished for their cancer in their daily lives. we therefore call for the adoption of an anti-discrimination directive and for the fair and equal implementation of directives on financial services such as consumer credit.
in writing. – this is an important report because it aims to strengthen coordination between eu countries to combat inequalities in the fight against cancer. eu countries should work together to combat drug shortages, for example, through joint purchasing procedures. the eu should target investment to effectively develop interoperable electronic health records, digital health solutions for continued cancer out-patient care, as well as multi-sectoral synergies in research and innovation to improve early detection and personalised cancer treatment. this will also be important in achieving the ever important health union. it is important to come up with european prevention and management plans to help national healthcare systems be more resilient and prevent and deal with shortages of drugs, equipment, products, and staff in times of health crisis.
in writing. cancer kills 1.3 million people in europe every year. it's too much. effective, innovative, accessible and affordable treatment is very important. 40% of all cancers are preventable, so all possible prevention measures should be taken. the commission's role is to develop and implement the cancer action plan in the most effective way. the report finds that member states should allow citizens to undergo regular health checks and that healthy lifestyles should be encouraged. there is also a need to continue investing in research into the causes of cancer in adults as well as in children and adolescents, and to organise regular screening studies. equal access to and quality of care remain a problem in many member states and this needs to be addressed by reforming the cross-border healthcare directive to allow mobility and access to highly specialised equipment and treatment.
in writing. mr president, europe is currently facing first and second class citizens in cancer treatment. in eastern europe, cancer patients have a 30 percent lower chance of surviving the disease than do patients in western europe. the fight against and treatment of cancer in the eu must not depend on the social status or geography of the patient. europe must guarantee all its citizens high-quality, accessible and affordable cancer care. this means screening for key cancers, early diagnosis, early treatment and post-treatment rehabilitation. the disparities in cancer treatment must be eliminated and cancer treatment must be made equally accessible throughout europe. the final report by beca shows parliament's ambition in the fight against cancer. the report calls for joint action at eu level. but we should be even more ambitious in our efforts to prevent it. the various chemicals in our environment, poor air quality and micro-particles affect the incidence of cancer. we can't stop the cancer growth prediction unless we solve these problems. europe must guarantee quality, accessible and affordable cancer care for all its citizens, more eu research funding, the exchange of best practice, treatment research and the european health data space and cancer treatment centres of excellence. we also need to make it easier for cancer patients to seek treatment in another eu country. quality cancer care is for every european, regardless of income, gender, place of residence or ethnic background. cancer treatments and drugs, especially those for very rare cancers, are expensive. we should therefore use the european system of joint procurement for the procurement of cancer medicines, which was used for the procurement of corona vaccines. it would make treatment more affordable for both patients and health care systems.
in writing. the report of the special committee of the european parliament, which was drawn up mainly on the initiative of the european people's party, is the result of a year and a half of negotiations. the outcome contains a number of useful recommendations that can help patients in treatment, speed up research or strengthen prevention. however, the report also contained a number of proposals which complicated the achievement of the objectives set and interfered with the freedom of choice of the individual. one of them is a global ban on the promotion of sporting events by beer and spirits producers. such a ban would jeopardise the functioning of small and local sporting events or sports clubs, particularly in times of pandemic. i therefore made an additional proposal to limit the prohibition to events with a predominantly children's audience.
the agenda includes the discussion of statements by the council and the commission on the surveillance of politicians, prosecutors, lawyers and journalists, as well as other natural persons and entities in the eu member states through the use of computer surveillance software (2022/2546 ((rsp)). i would like to inform the honourable members that a round of speeches by the political groups is planned for this debate. i would also remind you that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the discussions of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, as in the recent sessions, remote assistance is provided by parliament's liaison offices in the member states. i would also like to remind you that the speakers in the chamber will continue to be from the centre stage and i would therefore ask members to check the list of speakers and to approach the centre stage as their speaking time approaches. i now give the floor to the under-secretary for european affairs, mr clément beaune, on behalf of the council.
president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for putting this debate on such a sensitive and important subject on the agenda of your session. i simply want to say, first of all, that the use of surveillance software to infiltrate, in particular, phones is obviously unacceptable and must be condemned in the strongest possible terms. i want to make this simple and clear. the european union is founded on core values that bring us together: democracy, respect for the rule of law, freedom of expression and information, freedom of the media and the protection of privacy are among them. these are all, among others, fundamental rights enshrined in our primary law, in our charter. the european institutions all and the member states each have a joint responsibility and duty to ensure that these rights and freedoms are protected against unlawful surveillance on a daily basis. of course, in all our democracies, some frameworks, some limitations on the right to privacy may be necessary. it is the collective life that imposes it for certain purposes, in particular for the fight against crime, in some cases, but always, and this is the meaning and strength of our democracies, always limitations are necessary, they are also strictly framed, in particular by european rules on the protection of human rights. the use of surveillance measures can only be an exceptional measure and the use of surveillance measures in question constitutes such an intrusion into privacy that the highest and most stringent safeguards must be complied with. as you know, in our legal system it is up to each member state to carry out the necessary investigations, if any, in accordance with eu law, to combat any surveillance measures which are illegal. this is essential to create or restore a climate of trust, which we see every day as necessary and sometimes damaged. a journalist, in particular, must always feel safe in europe to contact a source and carry out his investigative work. a political opponent must always be allowed to express his views. a human rights activist must always feel able to defend his or her cause, free from any political, public or private pressure or interference. the situation is also a reminder of our collective vulnerability - and i say this with gravity - in terms of cybersecurity. cybersecurity is not just about protecting economic activities or critical infrastructure, even though it is also vital to our sovereignty. cybersecurity is also about protecting the electronic devices of our daily lives, such as smartphones, which have often become an extension of ourselves and which process so much data that they reveal our private, personal or professional life. the european union is also stepping up its efforts in the security sector. i repeat: this is a priority of the french presidency of the council of the european union. i would like to emphasize in this connection, to be very specific, the intensive work currently being carried out with the european parliament to achieve - we hope, we are actively working on it - an agreement on the directive on the security of information systems, sometimes called nis 2, during the french presidency. this is an objective which we would very much like to achieve with the european parliament and the support of the european commission. there is another trilogue meeting this week. i think that our debate on this is also timely. i thank you for your commitment, for this debate and for your attention. i shall of course be at your disposal to answer all the questions raised in the course of the debate.
member of the commission. madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to repeat in the context of this debate what commission president ursula von der leyen said about the pegasus case. i quote: 'the commission strongly condemns any illegal access to the communication system or any form of illegal interception of user communications. other any attempt by national security services to unlawfully access the data of individuals, whether lawyers, journalists, prosecutors, civil society activists or political opponents, is unacceptable. of course, new technologies can play a vital role for the police and the judiciary, but only if they are used in a proportionate way and in accordance with all applicable law. national security cannot be a white-wash for infringing the fundamental rights of europeans. the media must be able to work freely, independently and without fear of reprisals, everywhere in the european union. free political opposition is crucial to democracy. as you know, under european law it is the member states which are responsible for protecting their national security. however, this does not mean that member states are exempted from their obligations under union law on the sole ground that they claim to act in the interests of national security. in other words, the fact that a measure is presented as being related to national security does not mean that everything is permissible. the european court of justice has repeatedly made this point. according to its case law, it is for the member states alone to define their essential security interests and to adopt appropriate measures to protect them. the mere fact that a national measure has been taken for the purpose of protecting national security cannot render eu law inapplicable. the court has made it clear that it is for the member states to substantiate such a claim. member states must supervise and control their security services and must ensure that they fully respect fundamental rights, including privacy and the protection of personal data. there is also a need to create a favourable environment for media freedom, which includes safeguarding the safety of journalists and protecting them from threats, including online. any attempts by national security services to illegally access the data of citizens, including journalists and political opponents is unacceptable. independent supervisory authorities, such as national data protection authorities and national courts, have an important role to play in that respect. the commission expects them to make full use of all their supervisory powers to thoroughly investigate the allegations regarding the pegasus spyware and restore citizens' trust. in this context, i am aware that the hungarian data protection authority announced the conclusion of its investigation into the matter. we understand that an investigation by the budapest regional office of the hungarian prosecution service is still ongoing. i'm also aware that in poland, the senate special committee is examining the use of pegasus. i would like to assure you that the commission is continuing to follow the issue closely and that we are gathering information in this regard. when member states apply eu law, they must comply with the fundamental rights enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights and even when union law is not applicable, the privacy of communications and the protection of personal data are still subject to strict safeguards under the european convention on human rights and the constitutional laws of the member states. in particular, any restrictions or exceptions to fundamental rights must be duly justified, necessary and proportionate. we are particularly aware of the specific risks sometimes faced by opposition politicians, journalists and human rights defenders in this regard. with regard specifically to the media, the commission adopted a recommendation on the safety of journalists in september last year. one specific recommendation of this text states that member states should ensure full implementation of the european and national legal frameworks on the confidentiality of communications and online privacy, with a view to ensuring that journalists and other media professionals are not subject to illegal online tracking or surveillance. furthermore, the recommendation provides that member states should, upon request, assist journalists who seek to determine whether their devices or online accounts have been compromised in obtaining the services of cybersecurity forensic investigators. the commission will monitor the implementation by the member states of this and other recommendations. we call on all member states to implement legislation and safeguards to protect individuals from any unlawful surveillance, including any arbitrary or mass surveillance. ladies and gentlemen, the european union has a strong legal framework for data protection and privacy. this framework must be respected. as i have stressed, the authorities of the member states are obliged to supervise and control their security services and law enforcement agencies to ensure that they fully respect fundamental rights, including the protection of personal data, privacy and freedom of expression. in so far as european rules are applicable, the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter must be respected. where union law is not applicable, member states remain bound by the guarantees provided for in the european convention on human rights and national constitutions. i would also like to stress that a swift adoption of the eprivacy regulation will further harmonise privacy rules in the single market and strengthen the enforcement powers of the competent authorities. we therefore invite the co-legislators to work constructively towards the swift adoption of this regulation. i thank you and will of course be very happy to answer your questions, but above all to listen to your observations and comments.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, if anything became clear in these past weeks, it is that we have yet to discover the full depths of this pegasus spyware scandal, so it’s very good and important that we have this debate here today. there are three points that i would like to make. first, that we cannot overemphasise the severity of this scandal. i think it’s important for all of us to put ourselves in the place of the victim, to try and imagine that every message you send to your loved ones is being read by the government, that every video you watch on your phone is being watched with you, that people who do not have your best interests at heart know your exact whereabouts at any given moment. this should already immensely scare you. it does scare me, but my fear is nothing compared with the fear of journalists scrutinising not-so-democratic governments, of opposition politicians, activists, ngos, lawyers, all those who are considered an inconvenience by the powers that be in their countries. that is why it is important that this european parliament will always stand behind and fight alongside the victims of these attacks, and that we do so with strength and vigour. because the effects of such attacks are wider than the direct victims. it has a chilling effect on anybody that wants to speak out, scrutinise governments and defend democracy and rule of law and that once enjoyed the democratic freedom of fighting an election in a free and fair manner. it directly undermines democracy and the rule of law, and it cannot go unchallenged. and this is why the inquiry committee that will be set up in this house is a very timely and important step. second point that i’d like to make is that this is not about national security; it is about rule of law. it is not about whether countries are allowed or not to use technology to fight organised crime and terrorism – because technological innovation can and must play an important role in keeping us all safe. we already see that criminals and terrorists deploy increasingly advanced technology, and law enforcement needs to be able to fight them at least on a level playing field. but that, once again, is not what this is about. this is about the abuse of technology for political gain and about the complete absence of proper checks and balances. thirdly, this is not only a polish or a hungarian issue, it is a european issue and in fact, it’s a global issue. and we had a very interesting hearing from the epp group last week with experts and victims of the pegasus scandal. what struck me most was a comment by a polish lawyer, roman giertych, himself a victim of the polish government’s abuse of pegasus, and he said that this was not about the victims. the victims, in his words, are the canary in the coalmine. they are the first symptom. they are the warning of a much wider problem. they are an alarm that rings loudly for everyone to hear, and the eu must now show that we have heard this alarm. we must act upon the warning we have received and defend democracy and the rule of law whenever and wherever necessary.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, a maxim of scientific progress teaches us that, inexorably, everything that can be done that is within the reach of historically available technology will simply be done. and that the only brake against that determination is the one imposed by ethics and by the civilized rule of law. neither barrier is immune to criminal practices and unscrupulous rulers. i think both threats are present in the subject of this debate. a technology made available to no less than forty countries, as we have learned, by an israeli patent security company (nso), under the alias pegasus, that allows an unprecedented intrusion into the fundamental rights that we hold most dear: privacy, the confidentiality of communications, privacy of life. in short, the security of our personal data and our communications through, precisely, the technological tool with the greatest storage capacity ever housed in the history of mankind with regard to these precious assets: mobile phones. a technology that is able to activate, without us knowing it, the microphone or the camera, thus becoming a cyber surveillance device 24 hours a day. this e-privacy technology is grossly incompatible with european law, grossly violating our standard regulated by european law, the general data protection regulation, and of course the directive on data protection in the criminal field, which accompanies it precisely to make it possible for the agencies that have that responsibility to investigate crimes: prosecutors, police, forces and security bodies. because in no case can security be used as a pretext for violating fundamental rights. the history of this civilized rule of law has taught us this, which excludes evidence obtained illegally and prohibits its validation in court. we have therefore a lot to do and we do not have to close the door to any response within the reach of this european parliament, including, of course, that special committee of inquiry to ensure that the commission exercises its role not only as a guarantor of european law, as a guardian of the treaties and of european law, including european privacy law. it includes, commissioner, in its annual report on the rule of law, the failure to comply with european standards, which are the highest in the world in the protection of fundamental rights. this also includes the procedural guarantee of exclusion of any communication unlawfully obtained for any purpose. it's strictly forbidden. the 'doctrine of the poisoned tree' is called in procedural law, which includes in european criminal law, on the legal basis of article 83, a european criminal offence of illicit use of spyware, cyber surveillance, and therefore mass cyber surveillance. there's so much to do, we can't rule out any possibility. but i mean, in the same way that, whatever can be technologically attempted will be done, there will always be unscrupulous rulers. and we regret that the list of usual suspects, in addition to other countries of dubious democratic character, includes two member states of the european union, hungary and poland, again. not only is this completely unacceptable, but the european union has an obligation to do everything in its power to protect and guarantee the fundamental rights of europeans, those protected by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which lays down not only the privacy and confidentiality of personal data, but also the rules of legality, necessity, proportionality and lawfulness of the object, legitimacy of the objective, for any measure that may affect the fundamental rights of citizens and of any person to whom european law applies. let us never forget that the charter of fundamental rights of the european union protects not only europeans but all people in the application of european law.
i'm asking you to pay attention to the timing. i did not interrupt because i think this is a very important discussion and i want to give you space and time to express yourself, but it is also important to respect the timing.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i find that this whole situation reminds me very much of a movie that i think many of us know, das leben der anderen (‘the lives of others’), which describes how a government critic was being spied upon by a government agent around the clock, and we all found it a very chilling image. but the point is that it’s not a movie. this has been a reality for millions of europeans for many decades and i get the feeling that europe today is being haunted by the spectre of its totalitarian past. this is not an incident. it’s not something that we have to treat in in a single debate and then it will go away. it goes against everything that the european union stands for. as a matter of fact, this is about why we want to be in the european union. i find it remarkable that the us government has very swiftly blacklisted nso, stating that nso has ‘developed and supplied software to foreign governments that used these tools to maliciously target government officials, journalists, businesspeople, activists [and] academics ... such practices threaten the rules—based international order’. but, in europe, where this is happening, the council and the commission have so far been silent. yes, you have condemned the practices, but what has actually been done? nothing. european governments spying on their own citizens for political purposes is totally and wholly unacceptable. using national security or the fight against terrorism, or whatever other security—related argument, as a pretext for this practice, colleagues, is textbook autocracy and evident rubbish. it doesn’t only affect the persons targeted, but it affects the whole of society because it has a chilling effect. when no one can be sure anymore that he is not being spied upon, more and more people will start practising self-censorship. we have already gone through that in europe. never again. we will also need to have a very close look at the possible impact that these practices may have had on the integrity of elections in europe, and notably the 2019 european elections in poland. i’ve heard powerful statements today condemning these practices, but the funny thing is that, at the same time, we are negotiating the eprivacy directive, the very piece of legislation that is supposed to protect people and restrict the powers that governments have to spy on their own citizens, and that, frankly, i find that not everybody who spoke is always on our side. the european parliament position is very clear: we want those restrictions to remain in place. so i hope that i will find the council – and the epp group and the ecr group and others who have voted against the european parliament position – on our side in the eprivacy trilogues because, for too long, i think that critical questions have been dismissed as left—wing whining, and i think these cases demonstrate very clearly why this is a very real issue. finally, i am very pleased that the european parliament has decided to set up an inquiry committee. my group, the renew group, already proposed this months ago, but only after the revelations about poland did a majority emerge. but i can assure everybody that, even if the european parliament doesn’t have the same powers as national parliaments when it comes to parliamentary inquiries, we will play a lead role in this. we will stand by the european citizens. we will defend democracy. we will defend freedom and we will defend justice, and i count on all my colleagues for doing so.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, alongside an increasingly invasive surveillance capitalism, the surveillance state is now sneaking in, shamelessly attacking our fundamental freedoms. it is no longer just the mass surveillance programmes of china or the united states that are to be feared, but also the targeted cyber espionage that is being carried out by an increasing number of governments, inside and outside the european union. this pegasus scandal reveals nothing less than the illegal and abusive use of these cyber surveillance weapons on our fellow citizens. make no mistake about it: pegasus is not a spy affair among the powers of this world. this scandal illustrates the risk to each and every one of us of being watched, including you and me. the official mission of these spyware programs is to monitor individuals suspected of terrorism or organized crime. however, the pegasus scandal shows that such targeting is used outside any legal framework, including within the european union. women and politicians, journalists, prosecutors, lawyers, human rights activists... we are all affected. cyber espionage technologies provide those who use them with a virtual pass-through to all our personal data. imagine that every time you take your smartphone out of your pocket, you're not alone, reading your messages, listening to your conversations, viewing your photos and videos, being able to activate your camera, your microphone or your geolocation. and then, when you realize that your life is being spied on without your knowledge, these questions strike you: why am i being spied on? how did they get access to my phone? what did they see? what do they know? who are they, anyway? this was the experience of a belgian human rights activist who was probably under surveillance by moroccan services. this feeling of insecurity was reported by a belgian journalist and his rwandan wife, who were probably hacked by the kigali authorities. these are the questions that are tormenting those who have been spied on by their governments in hungary and poland because they inform, campaign, defend, oppose. the u.s. has put the parent company of pegasus on a blacklist. the un is calling for a moratorium on the sale and transfer of this technology. it is time, more than time, for the european union to act. i can only agree with what sophie in 't veld has just said, and first of all that we understand what is at stake. we therefore call for the establishment of a european parliament committee of inquiry to shed light on the extent of these illegal cyber-hacking practices, starting with the identification of which member states possess pegasus or equivalent spyware. responsibilities must be established and sanctions imposed accordingly. this committee of inquiry is an essential step towards a regulatory framework for the conditions of export, sale, transfer and, above all, use of cyber-surveillance technologies. the question is: how can we still conclude agreements on police or judicial cooperation with states that spy on us and on our fellow citizens? ladies and gentlemen - and i conclude, madam president - we are all aware of the risks inherent in these technologies, which are now being used to monitor, intimidate, silence and, ultimately, endanger our democracies. we must protect our fellow citizens from this new era of surveillance, and that starts with getting the truth about these egregious violations of our fundamental rights. i can only join sophie in calling on my colleagues, whether from the epp, the social democrats, the ecr or other groups, to join us in setting up this committee of inquiry. i think that is where the european parliament can play its most useful role, before, of course, legislating with you, commissioner.
but i would ask you, mr president, to remain on the subject of the debate, to say nothing else, and to be respectful of the members who have spoken and are listening to you. if you do not intervene on the substance, i shall be obliged to take your word. i repeat that we must stick to the substance of the matter under discussion and that is not respectful of this house or of the members who are speaking, so i hope that this will not happen again.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. we should be clear about what we're talking about with pegasus, a spyware that lights people up, turns them into glass. and once it's infected, it grants complete access to all the data on the phone, can turn cameras, microphones on and off without us even knowing. this is the perfect surveillance. it's used to categorize people, to put them in danger levels without them knowing it. this is total surveillance, as george orwell described it with horror. there is nothing, there is nothing in the world, not even counterterrorism, that justifies total surveillance - especially not in a democracy. because what we see is what happens: journalists, bloggers, oppositionists, lawyers, dissidents are spied on. that's what this is about. it's not just our right to privacy that's at stake here. it is about the essence of democracy and our freedoms as a whole. worse, governments like poland, hungary -- yes, germany -- are using this software, and about 50 countries around the world. and there is no shortage of perversity when it comes to using money to buy pegasus for victims of crime. we have to ask ourselves: what kind of society do we want to live in when mass surveillance becomes the norm? such a society has left the soil of the rule of law. i don't think we all want that. after nsa, tempora, after scandals of illustrious intelligence agencies, the alarm bells must finally ring. we are demanding full clarification, a full parliamentary committee of inquiry with all the resources, binding consequences for the member states and not just rhetoric. we need clear rules. we need to ban the manufacture, sale and export of mass surveillance technology. we need to talk about this, not whine.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent revelations about the pegasus project have highlighted the seriousness of the global threat of human rights violations through secret computer surveillance. the pegasus spyware, which was sold by a company that fights crime and terrorism, is just one of many tools accused of illegally targeting and spying on politicians, activists, judges, journalists or other groups of individuals. anyone could be abused, with serious repercussions on fundamental freedoms and even personal security. there is a veritable surveillance industry, a marketplace of widespread secrecy that offers low-cost and easily accessible services and technologies. it is therefore extremely important that there should be full clarity on this type of activity, so that the lack of transparency and accountability of companies and users is addressed. there is a need for strict regulation and effective controls on destination states, contracts and any kind of information which may reveal the misuse of these products and the possible violation of fundamental rights.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for this debate. i know that it has been the driving force in parliament for some time now, and we are also paying particular attention to it in the commission. first of all, i would like to say that there is indeed a debate on the very strong legal framework we already have in the union for the protection of privacy and personal data. so this is a debate that can continue. moreover, you have also been involved in it several times as co-legislators, because the opposition between security and freedom is an ongoing debate. i would also like to point out that technology is of course sometimes used for good by security services, provided that it is used in a legal, recognised and abusive manner - as i mentioned earlier. i therefore strongly emphasise that there is a real need to move forward in the continuation of the debate on legislative frameworks, such as the 'privacy and electronic communications' framework, which will obviously not answer all the questions you have raised, but which would provide a better framework for the approaches you are highlighting today. beyond this discussion of the legal framework for privacy protection - mr lenaers alluded to the strong and robust side of this framework - there is a real problem of implementation. i would remind you that, even within the framework of european legislation, this responsibility for implementation lies with the member states. i would like to make it clear again that we are of course following the action of the member states closely. i reminded him, there was an investigation - if i am correctly informed, on his own initiative - by the data protection authority in hungary; there is a prosecutorial investigation in hungary; there's also a move from the polish senate. we will therefore continue to monitor and seek information on the progress of these various investigations. we will also support any other approach, including the one that mrs veld and mr lamberts have called for in relation to parliament's investigations. of course, we will also be very attentive to any information that may be gathered in connection with these various investigations, whether national or carried out in your parliament. the third point i want to stress is the cooperation we need, and cooperation, first of all - i repeat - with the national authorities. of course, if there are indications of a lack of independence or inefficiency, either from data protection authorities or from judicial authorities, we will not hesitate, as we have already done, to first make our comments in the context of the rule of law report mr lópez aguilar referred to this. if there are indeed relevant elements, they will be included in the rule of law report. i would also remind you that this year, for the first time, the report will also include recommendations. if necessary, we will introduce infringement procedures. i would like to remind you that we do not hesitate to initiate infringement proceedings: recently, the announcement of an infringement procedure concerning a member state has helped to put in order the problems of incompatibility within a data protection authority. if you have concrete information on other situations across the union, we would be happy to receive it, because we have not received complaints about a number of the authorities that have been mentioned today. so cooperation with the member states sometimes also involves you: when you have specific information, do not hesitate to send it to us. finally, on the debate on the development and then the import or use of a number of new technologies or software, the commission is of course open to thinking about how to use the existing legislative framework and perhaps develop it in the future, but always distinguishing between support for innovation and technological development and how these technologies are used. because, i repeat, when we had debates on the fight against terrorism, for example, we all wanted the authorities and the security services to have effective tools for collecting information. on the other hand, whenever there is abuse, i believe that we should be able to combat it, which does not preclude decisions on the import or prohibition of certain technologies. but then we will have to discuss with you and with the council whether new regulations are to be introduced in this area. i am sure that this debate will not end today.
president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to some of the points raised in the debate. first, since some examples or cases of national problems have been mentioned, i would like to point out that, whatever one thinks, it is not for the council to take a position at this stage on the work of a national authority which is in progress. but, as commissioner reynders pointed out, a number of procedures have been opened by the national authorities - this is the case in hungary. i would also point out that the proper functioning of data protection authorities is not only an option but also an obligation for the member states in the implementation of the general data protection regulation, and that the control of this implementation by the national authorities is carried out under the ultimate control of the european commission. when there are failures or malfunctions, infringement procedures or various legal procedures can of course be initiated. i want to return to a number of instruments, since we still have a lot of room for manoeuvre and responsibility which, as i said just now, is a matter for national prerogatives. this does not mean that there is no community control and that the various institutions do not have responsibilities to exercise, as i have mentioned for the commission. commissioner reynders raised the issue of imports of a number of sensitive dual-use goods or software which may amount to espionage. there is no specific european framework in this area today - this is also a national responsibility - but the european commission can point to a number of difficulties. we have a toolbox here that can be mobilized. when we look at how to strengthen these possibilities for intervention, i believe that there are also a number of elements that can be mentioned or mobilized. firstly - and this is obviously not the responsibility of the council or the presidency of the council, as mr lamberts and mrs veld have mentioned - these are internal discussions and decisions which you have to take - a committee of inquiry, for example a parliamentary one, can be set up. there are also legislative texts which can - in some cases, which have been debated - strengthen our arsenal. this was mentioned by sophie in t veld among others. i think about the texts on "e-privacy" - i say it in bad english - or on electronic evidence, "e-evidence" - i say it always in rather bad english - where we hope to move the work forward and we are committed to it, beyond hope. on the subject of e-privacy, the technical negotiations have finally resumed, and i believe we have some sensitivities, on data retention in particular, but we are confident about the possibility of engaging the trilogues during the french presidency's six-month term. similarly, my colleague, the keeper of the seals and minister of justice, éric dupond-moretti, has made the issue of electronic evidence, e-evidence, a very important priority in the 'justice and home affairs' sector. we hope that we will be able to launch the trilogues during the semester and take these discussions forward. in my opening remarks i referred to the work on the nis 2 directive, which is also very important in the debates we are having this morning, and we have, as i said, trilogues which are continuing this week. there are also a number of judicial, jurisdictional or more political tools, in the sense of the debate, on the rule of law in particular. on this last point, as commissioner reynders rightly pointed out, we now have recommendations in the next edition of the european commission's report, but also in the regular dialogues which are organised by waves of countries within the general affairs council. five countries will be examined again in march, i am sure, including several which were mentioned in this morning's business, and this examination will therefore continue in the general affairs council, with information from the european commission, and which also allows monitoring, vigilance and even pressure to be exerted on these issues of protection of the most fundamental rights and personal data. i was referring above all to the fact that we are a union of laws, both singular and plural, that we still have legal proceedings in our countries which can be brought, and that the national court is also the court of the law of the union. this is sometimes forgotten. i am taking france as an example, but i know that other countries have been involved in the same procedure: several french prosecutors have, on the basis of information they considered sufficient, linked to pegasus in particular, initiated information or legal proceedings which may, if necessary, lead to sanctions, in accordance with national and european rules, obviously in compliance with judicial procedures and the independence of the judiciary. so i think we already have a considerable toolbox today, and i hope that we can do useful work with the french presidency of the council this semester to advance our work and strengthen these tools, at least on the three texts i mentioned.
i thank mr beaune, and also commissioner reynders and all the colleagues who have contributed their thoughts to this debate. the debate is closed. the sitting is adjourned for the time being. there will be a very short break, because then we will resume at 12 noon with the address of the president of colombia iván duque márquez. thank you all. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
we have with us today the president of the republic of colombia, iván duque márquez. dear president, thank you very much for coming to the european parliament. muchas gracias presidente, bienvenido. last year we commemorated five years since the colombian peace agreement, a long—awaited accord that this parliament strongly supports. i would like to thank you, mr president, for the commitment of your administration to preserving peace. i would also like to use this moment to honour the memory of the victims of decades of conflict. we will never forget them. their memory must be preserved in dignity and justice, while we support all the families that suffered atrocities. the people of colombia have always struggled to defend and preserve their democratic institutions and the rule of law in order to guarantee the fundamental rights of citizens, and they have done so despite the threat of anti—democratic forces and criminal organisations. during the covid-19 pandemic, colombia has led by example by granting temporary protection status to 1.8 million venezuelans, allowing them to access key services, while one of the biggest humanitarian crises of our time was unfolding. this historic act deserves recognition. yesterday’s signature of the ‘joint declaration for a dialogue on environment, climate action and sustainable development’ is testimony to your commitment to preserving the environment and to combating the climate crisis. in terms of biodiversity, colombia is a world leader, so this joint declaration is fundamental to achieving our common global climate objectives. i know that we will keep working together in key areas as we continue to strengthen the links between the european union and colombia for the benefit of all our people. so without further delay, i give the floor to the president of colombia, iván duque márquez. mr president, the floor is yours.
president of colombia. good morning to you all, and my special greeting to the president of the european parliament, mrs roberta metsola. i also greet all the members of the bureau of the european parliament, all the members of the conference of presidents, mr borrell and all the members of our delegation. i would like to begin by thanking you for this important invitation to colombia to share in this invaluable organ of multilateralism. i also want to honour the memory of mr sassoli, who had invited us to this place months before. i want to emphasize that this is a breast of democracy, but, above all, it is a platform for the world, to hear our ideas and to build together. ladies and gentlemen of the house, almost forty years ago, in the beautiful city of stockholm, one of the most important spanish-speaking writers came to receive the nobel prize for literature. gabriel garcía márquez, with that beautiful inspiration of magical realism, was preparing to speak at that moment about the loneliness of latin america. four decades have passed, and latin america has gradually overcome that loneliness. it has been integrating into the world and has acquired an increasingly noticeable behavior in the international concert. in fact, our presence before the european parliament is the demonstration of how a latin american nation strengthens its ties, its relations and is able to build a better future, understanding that the international relationship is a vibrant and dynamic state policy that builds, from the evolution of public policies, future, employment, growth and opportunities. there is no doubt that latin america today can show all the developing countries that in these four decades it has made unquestionable progress. latin america has shown that it has increased life expectancy, that it has increased its middle class, that it has also been able to increase, as never before, coverage in health and education, that it has managed to transition to market economies where there is private investment in infrastructure, in energy, and where we are seeing the concept of multilatinism grow, in our own region and in the world. but we cannot fail to express that our region has gone through the most difficult and painful times, as can be seen with the devastating effects of the covid-19 pandemic. this invisible enemy has invaded our lives and put our health care system in jeopardy, as it has done for many of the nations represented here. this invisible enemy also affected our economic dynamism, it led us to close down many of the activities that are part of our daily lives and it also affected us in multiple social indicators. that enemy broke in and forced us to have to react with speed. it also put at risk many of the public policies we had developed for the welfare of the people. and many tried to put on the table a false dilemma: the dilemma of life and health or the economy and employment. that dilemma does not exist because without good health there is no development and without development there is no good health. and we had to take on those balances in a dynamic and determined way. but latin america has also shown the resilience to face those storms and has also shown that it can bring effective responses to each of its citizens. i want to put that challenge on behalf of colombia and tell you how a country like ours has had to face these circumstances without letting any of the dreams, any of the policies that we had proposed, be taken away from us. we closed 2019 with the highest economic growth in five years, we managed to have a primary fiscal surplus for the first time in almost eight years and we had achieved, among others, the best historical year of tourism, with more than 4.5 million non-resident visitors. we came to 2020, and we saw growth in january and february, when our economy managed to exceed 4%. but then the pandemic came along and it took our economy down 6.8 percent, and we lost a lot of loved ones. and there, our nation's resilience was tested. we could have calmed down in the face of those storms or bowed in the face of uncertainty, but we didn't. i am speaking to you today to tell you that, in terms of public health, a country like colombia has faced this pandemic by doubling the number of intensive care units, from 5,400 to more than 13,000. it has managed to go from one laboratory with the capacity to do test processing under the berlin protocol to having more than 186 laboratories throughout the territory. he has succeeded in developing a telemedicine practice, with which we have gone from thousands to more than ten million citizens who today, month after month, receive their medical care virtually or at home. and we also managed to build a national vaccination plan under the principle of equity, and massive and free, which today gives us 80% of the population with at least one dose. and we're close to closing this month of february with over 70% with double doses and over seven million booster shots that have been deployed throughout the national territory. we want to close this semester with more than 90% and get that message to all the colombian people: that in the most difficult moment it was equity that guided this vaccination policy. but at the same time, honourable members, we had to face up to the effects on the economy. and colombia, who is speaking to you today, yesterday received a news item: we will achieve in 2021 the greatest economic growth in our history. and it's not a rebound, but a dynamic revival, because we were one of the fastest growing economies in the world, but we did it thanks to having launched what we call the colombian new deal, deploying public, private and public-private investment throughout the territory, and also making economic transfers, going from three million beneficiaries to ten million beneficiary households and having subsidized 40 or 50 percent of a legal minimum monthly wage to more than four million workers. today, that colombia which is seeing economic dynamism has european investment. the investment is seen in infrastructure projects, where we can also say that by august this year our country will have inaugurated infrastructure projects where the second lanes, second roads and third lanes will equal in just four years what the first twenty-five years of concessions were. thanks also to the investment of this continent and hand in hand with national investors in the midst of the pandemic, we are moving towards the energy transition, from 0.2% of our energy matrix in non-conventional renewables to close to 20% which, added to the water source, puts us with one of the cleanest energy matrices on the planet. and we are also proud that we have achieved the largest housing sales in the history of colombia, but marked by the sales of housing of social interest, 61% of whose beneficiaries are families who have incomes below two minimum wages. that vibrant and vigorous colombia that responds to this challenge also managed, in the midst of the pandemic, to achieve the largest agricultural exports in its history, with europe being one of the main markets. those open markets, the product of a free trade agreement, meant closing gaps and meant giving that unparalleled opportunity to those farmers who joined agriculture on contract to sell without intermediaries and reach the big markets of the world. but the colombia i am talking about is also a colombia that in the midst of the pandemic developed a social transformation and that today also makes us proud. in the midst of the pandemic, we managed to launch the free public higher education program, which is now state policy, and which allows us to bring that free higher education enrollment to 97 percent of those enrolled, which allows us to shelter not only the most vulnerable sectors, but the emerging middle class. and, in parallel with that policy, we have achieved that in our country, with this government, the greatest attention is given in terms of income to workers, achieving the largest real increase in the minimum wage consolidated by any government in more than four decades, maintaining its purchasing power and also showing our citizens that, if our economy grows vigorously, we also have to recognize the effort of workers. this determined action, which is also accompanied by this basic emergency income, which we call "solidarity income", and which has represented a revolution in terms of reaching deep colombia with economic transfers and which is added to the return of value added tax (vat) to the most vulnerable families, also allows us to say that in our government 54% of all economic transfers that have been turned in colombia in twenty years of history of this type of transfers have been allocated. and, of course, we must also incorporate peace with legality into that reality. because peace is not left unattended for a single moment in the midst of a pandemic. we've secured over three billion dollars of investment in the regions that have been historically hit hardest by violence. we have put into operation 14 of the 16 territorial development plans and have achieved the largest handover of rural property titles in the history of our country, with 50,000 titles. we have incorporated land into our land banks, to seek equity in distribution and also link them with jobs related to rural productivity. but we have also made bets so that in the construction of peace with legality indigenous communities can contract directly with the state for projects that are relevant in their environment. we extended the victims act for another ten years and we have made collective and individual reparations that already mark historical milestones as well. and that colombia that embraces peace with legality also celebrated last year five years and the implementation was recognized by the united nations and also by the european union, with the brilliant and exhaustive participation of eamon gilmore, the head of its delegation, who said, without offense, that colombia is a reference and is a reference because this implementation that must be advanced in four periods shows that it is able to arrive not with political colors, but with the tricolor of our country, the one that unites us, the yellow, blue and red that represents the presence of the state in every corner. honourable members, these measures are also taking place in the midst of the worst migration crisis that latin america has ever experienced. and although we are not a rich country, we have been able to take care of the migrant. without being swayed by xenophobia or indifference, we have welcomed 1.8 million migrants and are handing out to our venezuelan brothers and sisters these cards that accredit them with temporary protection status. (applause) the venezuelan brothers and sisters who have arrived in colombia are receiving this attention in a campaign we call "visible", so that they can be people, that they can have a professional life, that they can enter the health system, that they can acquire a home, that they can feel sheltered and protected. and, without a doubt, we have received support from the european union at the donor tables and we have had a lot of coordination and participation from the bilateral cooperation agencies. but i must also make an appeal, because it is necessary, and not only to colombia, but to all the countries that have received the migrant population. the speed of commitments and disbursements shows a great gulf. we need to speed up the disbursements from the donor tables to accompany the efforts of all nations. these are not resources we ask for ourselves, but resources that are asked for migrants. and the speed of disbursement also means the continuing confidence in the dynamic cooperation that is required. i cannot help mentioning that as we speak of this humanitarian gesture, it is also necessary that the world continues to act so that the cause of this tragedy is stopped. and the cause of this tragedy is the opprobrious dictatorship of nicolás maduro, which is generating more diaspora, more scourge and more deterioration of the social fabric in venezuela. (applause) honourable members of parliament, the colombia that speaks to you today is also the colombia that proudly feels the second most biodiverse nation on the planet. and together we must tackle the climate crisis that weighs us down. this is no longer an optional path. if we don't act, the effects of the climate crisis will be irreversible. that's why our nation, which only accounts for 0.6 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, but is one of the most vulnerable nations to the effects of the climate crisis, was there in glasgow to say that we are going to be carbon neutral by 2050, and to reduce 51 percent of our emissions by 2030, and that this year, not 2030, this year we will declare 30 percent of our territory as protected area to show that commitment and to validate that quick and timely action is an example for everyone and that if a country that only accounts for that 0.6 percent of emissions does that, so should the nations that have contributed the most to this crisis. we've joined those efforts with the planting of 180 million trees, with the energy transition, with clean mobility, and with a political act worthy of admiration amidst so many debates that are characteristic of politics today. we got unanimous approval of a climate action law that positions colombia. and it was with that same attitude that last week in brest, alongside president macron and other leaders, we were raising the urgent need to extend the marine protected area and to tackle practices like trawling that is destroying coral reefs that are home to 45 percent of marine life. today, dear members of parliament, we are here to tell you that the changes colombia has undergone have also been the result of its entry into the multilateral environment. europe has supported us with free trade agreements, with cooperation. it accompanies us in the implementation of peace with legality and it accompanies us also in the climate action agenda. colombia is now the 37th country in the oecd. and it's the only partner that nato has in latin america. but colombia is also the interim president of the andean community of nations, the pacific alliance and also of prosur. we believe in multilateralism and we are confident that multilateralism will always be the best answer and will always be the best of alliances when we have experienced it with you. i feel it is my duty to also make a reference to one of the greatest challenges facing latin america. our democracy, regional democracy, cannot be taken for granted because we have to be aware of the threats that exist. today we know that there are three enemies of democracies in the world: populism, post-truth and polarization, as moses naim described in his latest book. those three enemies are present. and those three enemies are the ones who want, many times, to make us part of a geopolitical debate of those who want to fracture the world order. we have to be able to protect our democracy from foreign influence or interference, from those who want to manipulate algorithms, or from those who want to create hatred and division. to stand united in warning of these circumstances is our ethical duty and we have to be able to reject any outside attempt that wants to take our electoral systems to become an experiment of hackers trained to mobilize and detonate hatred. the european union is now accompanying colombia in its electoral process with an observer mission. and we will be working with you to ensure the soundness of our democracy. the european parliament has a duty to support the efforts of the latin american countries to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflict. the solution to the climate crisis requires latin america as that place that houses the amazon, and that has more than 70 percent of the world's wastelands, and that has underwater riches and that is also a pantry. that is why it is necessary to re-establish the dialogue at the highest level, between the heads of state of europe and latin america, which has not been held for years. this scenario is not only a necessity, but it also allows us to consolidate the values of defending democracy that have kept the dialogue between latin america and europe vibrant and optimistic. today we have to defend democracy. today we must defend the market economy. today we must defend a sustainable and responsible social policy. and today we must also raise our voices. i address you in times of tension in the world. but let this also be an occasion for latin america to make the following message clear: all nations must be free and sovereign to choose whether or not to join a multilateral organization. but a third country cannot, by force, intimidate or intimidate a nation from exercising its sovereignty. (applause) the world must defend that principle, that freedom to choose sovereignly which bodies and under what prerogatives it binds. and the world must also be united in rejecting any violent intimidation or any exercise of violence. colombia, as i said yesterday at nato, will, in the event of an aggression scenario, support the sanctions that are being discussed at the international conference. not only do we not believe in that solution, but we also do not believe in those who want to relive the chapters of the cold war. ladies and gentlemen, security is a democratic value and a public good. security has no party or political colour. security must be experienced to make the protection and full exercise of freedoms viable. today we are aware that we have to work for this international security, for this regional security and for local security. i am glad to see how colombia has become a better country thanks also to the support of the european union. and i would like to invite you to make this case, which you can see as a success story in which, on the basis of the democratic transitions in our country, these advances are being made, serve to further extend cooperation with latin america. this is an imperative and colombia will always be instrumental in achieving that expansion. almost forty years ago, our nobel prize winner gabriel garcía márquez told the world that latin america was alone. today, latin america has largely overcome that loneliness. but today latin america needs europe more than ever. today i invite you to continue building this multilateral dialogue based on democracy, based on the freedom of choice of citizens and based on the right to build consensus in the midst of difference. because it will always be more important to achieve democracy than to impose autocracy. i am proud as president of colombia to address you and to thank you for what we have been able to build and to show you that our nation, despite the difficulties and adversities, is a nation that continues to look with optimism to the future. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
thank you very much, president duque márquez. i think the reaction of the plenary speaks for itself. (the formal sitting closed)
we now come to today’s first voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda and the voting session will be open from 12.30 until 13.45. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll call vote. i declare the voting session open. you have until 13.45 to vote. the results of the vote will be announced at 19.00. (the sitting was suspended at 12.38)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu-africa relations (2022/2533 ((rsp)). i would remind members that no spontaneous speeches or blue cards will be accepted in any debate at this sitting. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium, and i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to go to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, we stand on the eve of the sixth eu-africa summit that will take place in brussels on 17 and 18 february, and it’s a unique occasion that doesn’t happen every day, but it has been delayed for years. a unique occasion to replace europe in the centre of the attention of the african partners – to place or to replace, depends on how you see it. this summit will be held in a context which is certainly unprecedented. challenges of the covid-19 pandemic, increased geopolitical landscape, much more competitive, but also presenting opportunities. for example, what can we do with our eu recent global gateway strategy? we have been seeing how much our two continents are interlinked. i have been saying in kenya the other day that the african problems are our problems. but when we try to help them to solve their problems, it’s not because we are generous, but because their problems are our problems. let’s see what’s happening in the sahel or what’s happening in the horn of africa or what’s happening everywhere in the continent with respect to the demographic evolution. and we have to look at africa with a positive eye, not only through the lens of migration problems. africa is a land of countless opportunities, which are opportunities for us also. they have a young and dynamic human potential and they have unlimited possibilities on renewable energy. if we empower african youth and women, we will be able to promote a more green and digital and equal –sometimes we just say green and digital but i say, green, digital and inclusive, it means equal – growth on both our continents. at the african union summit held on 5 and 6 february this year, the new chair, president macky sall of senegal, showed openness to external partners without exclusivity, provided that they are mutually beneficial and respectful of african development priorities and societal choices. at the same occasion, the chairperson of the african union commission, moussa faki, expressed the hope that summits with partners will focus on concrete and transformative projects. concrete – that’s what we need to be. and that is the dynamic in which we are inserting this african union-european union summit. our objectives in the summit are based on a clear understanding of our respective and mutual interests. we want to strengthen our cooperation by defining joint key priorities and partnerships for the next decade. we will amplify the scope and focus of the team europe approach with the impact of our actions. we have to ensure more visibility to our partners and with a strong united response, a message underpinned by concrete actions, we will demonstrate that the european union is africa’s most trusted partner, and we will thereby also counter negative narrative and disinformation about what the europeans are and what europeans are doing and with the african people. so let me quickly go through some specific actions which we are working on. we are preparing an innovative and forward-looking joint declaration outlining tangible initiatives to be co-owned and implemented jointly in support of a common strategic vision for 2030. in particular, we are working with a team europe spirit – you know what i mean, european union institutions and the member states all together – on six particular deliverables, six strands of work to be translated into concrete projects and flagships. i will go through the six of them just to mention in order to frame our debate if you wish. first, an ambitious global gateway africa-europe investment package taking into account global challenges such as climate change and the current health crisis. second, preparing the health system. third, education systems – big priority. four, tools and solutions for the africa-europe security and stability architecture. more and more, our relationship with africa has to incorporate the security issues because when you see how jihadism is going from the sahel to the gulf of guinea, how instability is widespread from somalia along the indian ocean coast toward mozambique and the south. more and more, we are going to have security concerns to share with them and to help them to face them. fifth, an enhanced and reciprocal partnership on migration and mobility. and sixth, a european union-african union initiative for multilateral action and peace, prosperity and the planet. these are the strands for our work, and we have to build not only words, we have to explain concrete proposals and actions to reinforce our relations. yes, i know that so many things have been said or written about this relation. so many critics, sometimes rightfully, sometimes not. the too low distribution of vaccines or the travel ban that we imposed when the omicron variant raised in south africa are good examples of the first, many critics, rightfully, on the latter, we may show the new instrument that we are shaping to better answer security, in each of our partnerships are critics which are not adequate. summarising, i could say that we, the european union and the african union, do not agree on everything, certainly not. i think that we agree on the essential and this is enough, it is a good, sound basis for renewing a stronger partnership between us. let’s see what’s happening in the summit. we went to kigali to prepare the summit. at the ministerial level meeting, there were some important disagreements. there were some important concerns. that’s the moment to speak to each other, frankly, honestly, in order to improve our partnership, because certainly we need to solve the problems that african people are suffering. and keep in mind, this can be our motto: african problems are our problems, and when we work to try these problems, we work for ourselves also.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, africa is our neighbour, africa is our partner, and both our continents face exceptional challenges posed by the health crisis, economic recession and climate change, as well as population growth and demographic trends. the summit will be decisive if it goes beyond ringing declarations of intent and secures concrete commitments based on mutual strategic priorities – a win—win partnership. to be successful, the ppe group sees three main points as key. firstly, europe and africa have to work together to facilitate significant investment opportunities for business on the african continent that can support the creation of millions of jobs. this is necessary to keep up with africa’s rapidly growing young population. we also need to boost trade. moreover, with our experience in developing the single market, the eu must strongly support africa in the same endeavour. secondly, even more importantly, we need to have access to vaccines and to healthcare in africa. this must include setting up capacities for local vaccine manufacturing and more funding to healthcare. thirdly, we must tackle the root causes of migration jointly and build up cooperation on migration management. to sum up, it is time for a fresh start.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the council, commission and parliament agree on five key areas that need to be addressed in the eu's relationship with africa in order to stop illegal migration. address the root causes, prevent irregular migration, combat trafficking in human beings, facilitate return and reintegration and respect international law. we all know that the current measures are inadequate. hostile neighbors who have used migrants in hybrid warfare draw the same conclusions. the eu needs a new approach. so why is it that when denmark and its social democratic government launch a new proposal, the danish asylum plan, which addresses the five key areas, including respect for the right to asylum, the eu institutions try to put the wheels in motion? 22,000 people have died in the mediterranean since 2014, and africa's population will increase from 1.3 billion to 4 billion by the end of this century. unless you take the example of denmark, present a popularly supported migration policy and start negotiating with african countries on this, illegal migration will continue and more will die.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. shut up and convert. that was the message to the persecuted christians of the world from your left-liberals when you wanted to stop the european parliament from mentioning the persecution of christians a year ago. here's what you said: you don't choose to be lgbtq, you choose your religion. despite the fact that christians suffer 80 percent of all religious discrimination, despite the fact that attacks on churches have spread from the middle east to our continent, you choose to selectively ignore their suffering. is it really the case that the good liberal left is only open to, for example, lgbtq, which is mentioned ten times, or gender equality, which is mentioned seven times in this report? we conservatives are now giving you a second chance and calling on the eu to show solidarity with persecuted christians. so support our petition, because aren't your hearts so hardened that you want us to keep quiet about children being kidnapped for forced marriage, murders of the mentally handicapped, accused of blasphemy, terrorist attacks and internment camps?
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr borrell, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. since the wave of freedom that began with the fall of the berlin wall in 1989, we have taken democracy for granted, both inside and outside the eu. but democracy is under threat all over the world. today, more than ever, it is important that we mobilise for democracy, with democracy as the guiding light of our foreign, aid and security policy. democracies have to work together. we have to stand up for each other. a majority of eu member states must be able to take swift decisions to impose sanctions on countries that violate human rights and not be stopped by the occasional interference. the fact that there are political prisoners in europe today, in 2022, is a tragedy. today, 15 february, 1,062 people, including minors, are in prison in belarus for their opinions. the eu will never betray democracy and we will never turn our backs on the prisoners.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues! we can't let history repeat itself. democracy and human rights must never again become the privilege of a few. the report on human rights and democracy in the world, however, speaks its own language. something unusual is happening right now. we're seeing a decline. the decline is as present in our union as it is globally, and the antidote is leadership and political will. leadership by reversing the negative developments in our own union by strangling the financial support for rogue governments. otherwise, we won't have global credibility. political will by increasing the global toolbox. the new eu global sanctions mechanism is a good thing, but there is still a lot of work to be done. all our member countries must meet the un global target of at least 0.7 percent of gnp for aid. the work to achieve the 17 sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda must be intensified and qualified majority voting in the european council on human rights violations must be applied.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! my colleagues! the eu's member states must live up to the democratic values to which they subscribed. the rule of law not only protects individual rights but is also essential in combating corruption and abuse of power. the european commission must take a hard line against countries like poland and hungary which consistently violate the rule of law and where corruption can flourish when institutions are weakened and dismantled. i've said it before and i'll say it again. the eu is a cooperative, not an atm, and countries that break the rules of the game are to be punished severely. corruption is a threat to democracy and human rights. the eu must sweep the floor and keep a clean sheet against those who want to use our freedoms, our economy and our institutions for corruption and economic crime. the eu is not a free zone for corrupt crooks. they're gonna be hit with sanctions that will sting.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a toxic-free everyday life for all, and especially our children, should be taken for granted. we should not even have to discuss these matters in parliament. but we need it. because children are surrounded by strange, dangerous substances in their daily lives. there are toxins in the food, the water, the clothes and, unfortunately, not least, in the toys. children face this every day, and it's very difficult for us adults to protect children from it. and they're extra sensitive as they grow, and of course they're exposed extra when they're chewing and examining things, maybe putting them in their mouths. after all, these are toys we're talking about, so of course we adults have a very big responsibility to make sure that the toys are non-toxic. it should not be up to individual parents or grandparents to examine and check whether or not the toys contain toxins. of course, the authorities and the manufacturers must guarantee this. that is why we are voting against all exemptions for dangerous chemicals in toys. the limit values for the chemical content of a toy should apply to all toys, not just toys for very young children or toys designed to be placed in the mouth. if you think about it, it's pretty simple. of course, only toys that are completely safe should be manufactured. the child's perspective and the precautionary principle must apply.
madam president, i would like to thank you. should the eu send anti-tank guns or blankets and field hospitals to ukraine? the guns or the billions of dollars that could disappear? the european commission shall not lend to the budget and shall not spend more than they have. we sweden democrats have voted against budget support for badly managed economies in the eu and outside the eu. the eu has provided budget support to ukraine five times in the past. another $12 billion to kiev is not about the current threat from russia. the commission warns that the money could be squandered because it is not earmarked budget support and can be used freely. the court's indication of widespread corruption in the country should ring alarm bells. instead, we should provide military equipment through the peace facility and punish russia with harsh sanctions if they invade. my own country, sweden, should provide defence equipment, but the social democrats are against it. the reckless handling of taxpayers' money and the false solidarity with the ukrainian people is what it is. when the british send weapons to ukraine, the swedish ss are inspired by the german government who wants to send helmets. it's called hypocrisy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we are in the worst security situation in decades. russian troops, tanks and missiles have surrounded ukraine. this country is in dire need of help. the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine is a matter of our europe's and the world's young people, children and peoples right to self-determination. the eu must therefore act together to push back the oppressive regime in moscow. the failure to vote in favour of macro-financial assistance to ukraine is an act which constitutes a threat to peace and security in europe and the world. sustainable peace and security also requires the involvement of all sections of the population. my question to you, high representative and vice-president, is therefore: how do we ensure that we live up to our commitments to include both young people and women in peace processes, as set out in un resolutions 1325 and 2250? because all i've seen so far are men, men and more men.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? the pandemic has been a particularly difficult time for children and young people. many dreams have been put on hold. many have lost their jobs, others have had their opportunities for study or travel cancelled, and children and young people from already vulnerable backgrounds with weaker social protection networks are particularly affected. our children and young people are our future, and our future is determined to a large extent by what we do here and now. now more than ever, we need to listen to our young people, but we also need to take action. the establishment of the european year of youth is therefore very, very positive. it puts pressure on us to work more purposefully for a europe for young people, and as part of being able to shape their own lives and influence the development of society, we must also give priority to living conditions. we in the socialist group want to create more jobs with good conditions and decent wages. we want to ensure high quality education with fair remuneration for internships and apprenticeships. we want to put an end to unpaid internships. yes, there are things we can do. there are things we should do. and then there are things we have to do to be able to see ourselves in the mirror. i want young people in our eu to be able to dream and, above all, to make their dreams come true.
madam president, i would like to thank you. today's verdict sends a strong and clear message to the governments of poland and hungary, as well as to all other leaders of eu member states who feel tempted to violate fundamental rights and democratic principles. your attempts to violate our common rules are damaging to our communities and violating our values. your policies are undermining opportunities for journalists, judges, minorities and women, and finally we're taking a clear step in the right direction, against what you're doing. the majority of member states agree and individual governments cannot ignore this. now we have the tool in our hand. let's use it.
madam president, i would like to thank you. today the polish and hungarian governments have been sentenced. it's about time. today's court decision is about us europeans finally standing up for the people of hungary and poland, and not their governments. today's court decision shows that the human rights and freedoms of polish and hungarian citizens are important to us all, concern us all. the elections in hungary, commissioner, are just around the corner. will the commission act and choke the money out of viktor orbán's faucet, or will our money continue to fund a despot who no longer shares our common european values? let me be clear. no matter what nonsense or disgusting greetings you right-wing populists are making, you will not be able to intimidate us into silence. we liberals will not be silent when human rights are violated. we liberals will not back down from the fight for equal rights and equal value for all in the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner dalli, this is the police. we know that those who contribute least to climate change are those who suffer most from its consequences. the poor suffer more than the rich, and a majority of the world's poor are girls and women. they're the poorest in the world. they are the poorest in the eu. they are the poorest in sweden. it is the single mothers who are primarily forced to choose between feeding their children and paying the electricity bills. the fact that climate change is reinforcing inequalities and injustices that already existed is not new. yet the will of the broad majority to actually change this is lacking. we must be more courageous in taking action based on the fact that a fair perspective is a crucial prerequisite for building a sustainable future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner dalli, this is the police. the climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time, and we know that women and girls are being hit harder by the crisis, but they are also showing leadership in the climate response. but we are not taking into account the skills, knowledge and commitment of women and girls when we are changing. women are also underrepresented in climate and environmental issues. in order to succeed in climate change mitigation and contribute to climate justice, gender equality and women's rights must be taken into account. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. by integrating the gender perspective, we will be able to accelerate and strengthen a climate change that is sustainable and fair for all, because climate and gender must go hand in hand.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner schmit, i have to ask you. for me, as a social democrat, it is obvious: no one should have to die from their work. in europe, ten people die every hour from cancer caused by dangerous substances and medicines at work. that's hundreds of thousands of people a year. these are nurses who care for cancer patients and who are at risk of cancer because of their work. these are firefighters who are at risk of exposure to benzene, which can cause leukemia. it's about someone's parent, sibling or child, who goes to work every day and works to put food on the table and pay the rent. this is completely unacceptable. cancer is the most common cause of work-related death today. we must therefore do much more to protect vulnerable wage earners. anything else is irresponsible. that is why i am both pleased and proud of the agreement we are going to adopt here later today. the new legislation ensures that substances that affect reproduction will be covered by the same workplace prevention rules as carcinogens and mutagens. we are strengthening the protection of healthcare workers and nurses against exposure to dangerous medicines. it's a great success. i also look forward to the commission's forthcoming action plan to include 25 more subjects in the legislation. with stricter regulations, we could save thousands of lives every year. this is important for the health and safety of the employees. for me it is obvious that the eu should not compete on bad terms. we're going to be at the forefront of a safe and secure work environment. i want to say that our objective is zero and i want to thank you for a good cooperation with the rapporteur and the other shadows.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, since 2016, the philippines has been experiencing a democratic crackdown. the government, led by president duterte, has constantly intensified its attacks on the human rights of its people. the people are suffering today in a way almost unimaginable half a decade ago. civilians are being subjected to extrajudicial killings justified by the government’s despicable war-on-drugs policy. civil society organisations, human rights activists and aid workers are blacklisted and labelled as terrorists. freedom of expression is continuously violated and journalists cannot do their work without fear, at the same time as the opposition is continuously being targeted. not even foreigners, who are throwing light on the government and its policies are able to move freely in the country, or even enter. i visited the philippines in 2018, together with my friend, the deputy secretary-general of the party of european socialists but, to my surprise, he was deported back to belgium just because of a statement made a couple of months before. the duterte regime must constantly be reminded that the world is watching, and we must never let ourselves be silenced, because what is going on right now is impunity of the worst kind. i hope that we will get rid of the horrific duterte era in the upcoming elections, but for that to be possible, free and fair elections must be ensured. the international criminal court, at the same time, must continue its work on the investigations of crimes against humanity in the context of the killings during the war on crimes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues! the right to life is the most basic form of right. taking a human life is the most serious form of human rights violation. in iran, this is an irrevocable punishment, even for children. from 2009 to september 2020, at least 67 executions of juveniles have been reported. in january this year, 85 young people were awaiting execution. the death penalty is also used to repress minorities. it is applied disproportionately to the baloch, the arab, the baha'i and especially to the people group to which i myself belong, the kurds, simply because they claim the right to their own language and their own culture and identity. women's rights to their own bodies and lgbtq rights are the worst enemies of dictatorships and oppressive regimes because they symbolize the freedom to be who you are, to love who you want, and to have total bodily autonomy. in iran, it is the basis for the death penalty. in 2017, swedish researcher dr. ahmadreza djalali was sentenced to death on baseless charges of being a spy. the repressive regime in tehran must release all prisoners of conscience and abolish the abominable death penalty immediately. we must continue to use all the tools at our disposal in the eu and extend the sanctions, rather than withdraw them as some in this parliament want, to force the iranian regime to introduce democracy, human rights and the rule of law. the suffering of the people of iran must end. the cause of the iranian people is our cause.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, almost eight years after the democratic revolution in burkina faso, we see today an unfortunate backlash with a military junta that forcefully grabbed power and imprisoned the democratically elected president roch marc christian kaboré. in late spring 2014, i was in burkina faso as secretary—general of the international union of socialist youth to support the newly emerged party mpp, with its leader kaboré, who today is the elected and legitimate leader of burkina faso. i remember the hope and joy that a better future can actually be possible after decades of dictatorship. i am glad that my proposal for a resolution reached all the way to this session because the people of burkina faso cannot afford a silent world, and i have been in contact with many friends in burkina faso who are very thankful for us having the debate of today. during the past two years, we have seen four military coups in west africa, and the european union must immediately act forcefully. and the first step is to never, ever legitimatise the military junta and demand that they immediately give power back to the people and release president kaboré and all other political prisoners. any upcoming government should and must understand that the universal rights are not for few to enjoy, they are the rights of all people. as long as a fully—fledged democratic burkina faso is not ensured, long lasting peace will not be possible. and the struggle for democracy is crucial for and must go hand in hand with the struggle against terrorists and anti—democratic forces. we need to act. the commission and the eeas must put the need of the people, protection and safety of civilians in the centre of actions. democracy, rule of law and human rights, along with social rights must be respected and upheld by any government. the actions of the eu commission, unfortunately, and the member states have been far from sufficient until now. today and tomorrow, the eu and african union summit should be used as a platform to address the people of west africa’s right to their fundamental rights and together ensuring democracy and rule of law in the region. if any time, now is the time to also use our global human rights sanctions regime towards the coup makers because condemning is important, but actions are even more important.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission, the high representative! yes, there is a war in europe. bombs fall, civilians are killed, homes are destroyed, children cry. putin's invasion can only be described as cold-blooded. the russian leadership is solely responsible for this human suffering. but the eu stands united as never before and is targeting the biggest and most tangible sanctions in its history. ukraine and president zelensky should feel the solidarity and support of europe, and putin should respond with united and strong action. the resolution is a testament to our united strength in the union. we have a europe that speaks with one voice, and russia's aggression against ukraine must stop immediately. we're prepared to do whatever it takes. we stand for the security of europe. my sweden, which wears the same beautiful colours as ukraine, we stand in solidarity with the ukrainian people.
for the renew group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i want to thank you, anna donáth, for this important work. even before the pandemic hit, we knew that some governments in our union spent a lot of time creating a narrative around civil society organisations that ultimately led to their activities being excluded. right-wing populist governments, such as those in hungary and slovenia, continue to restrict, denigrate and, in the worst cases, criminalise the activities of associations. often these governments start by attacking organisations that defend women's rights, refugee rights, lgbt rights, the rights of europeans with disabilities, in other words organisations that reflect the essence of what we call the european union, our european union - values, our common values, which the right-wing populists hate most of all, which the right-wing populists want to smash, dismantle with all their might. as long as unions are silenced, threatened, the very foundations of our liberal democracy are threatened. during the pandemic, some governments went a little too far, and went ahead and banned organizations. now that our societies are starting up again, when we come back, all our freedoms and rights must be restored. that is why i would like to see a specific chapter on the conditions for civil society organisations in the next commission report on the rule of law. there is still time to reverse the trend. there is still time to win back our free union.
mr president, civil society organisations are under attack and democracy is in danger. we see it globally when the dictator putin is challenging our multilateral structures and international law, and we see it in our own union, where governments – in poland, hungary, slovenia – are severely undermining our fundamental rights and attacking organisations promoting those rights: women’s rights, lgbti rights, migrant and refugee rights. and these governments are fuelling hatred and racism. we also see it through the use of strategic lawsuits against public participation. a free and vivid society is a civil society, is the ultimate sign of a society where freedom is both a goal but also a means to reach the democratic values the eu is built on. civil society organisations have all through history taken the leadership for more democracy and constituted a counter force against those wanting to dismantle our core values. we also see the importance of civil society organisations during the current humanitarian crisis in ukraine with providing humanitarian aid to people in need. almost a decade ago, we went from progress to backlash in our union. the fundamental rights agency points out in its annual report that the covid—19 pandemic has further accentuated many of the already existing challenges faced by the european civil society. these challenges include limitations on the freedom of association, thought and expression, and not to forget to mention constant cutting of funding for the civil society organisations for them not to be able to survive. colleagues, democracy is in danger right now, and it is crucial that we strengthen civil society organisations and turn around the negative spiral and to ensure that we defend democracy in our union and beyond.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. civil society is the origin and the precondition of democracy. the fact that individuals choose to collaborate, to organize and start associations and organizations to pursue their cause, to influence their environment, or indeed just because they share an interest, gives us power, meaning, knowledge and context. a democracy without a democratic civil society is unthinkable. civil society develops society, exposing shortcomings, meeting needs and solving problems where the public sector cannot. without the voluntary aid organisations, the aid to ukraine would not have been delivered so quickly. without courageous women's organizations, we would not have had the right to free abortion. and when that right is threatened and restricted today, in poland, it is the women's movement that is mobilizing the protests. without the women's movement, thousands of women who have been subjected to violence would not have had protection and support even in my home country of sweden, which is considered one of the most equal countries in europe. a state which restricts the possibilities and rights of associations and organisations to exist and operate also restricts democracy itself. i would like to thank anna donáth for this report, which strengthens civil society. in conclusion, i would like to express my full support for the courageous civil society that is currently fighting in ukraine and belarus.
madam president, the commission! every human being is unique, but human value is equal. all people, regardless of skin colour, ethnic and cultural background or religion, have the right to be treated with respect. yet racism and discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity are still common both inside and outside the eu. this is completely unacceptable. the eu action plan against racism is a good starting point and is needed in all policy areas. culture, education and sport are fundamental to fostering a society that is open and welcoming to all. i therefore welcome the report and several of the measures that are highlighted. promoting a comprehensive approach to combating racism and discrimination in these areas is of paramount importance. it's simply about the equal value of all human beings.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we ever wavered in the face of warnings that our liberal democracy is under attack, as are our institutions, our political system, our european way of life, then putin's war on ukraine has shown its true face with full force. however, putin's war is not only against ukraine, but also against the liberal democratic world order. it's about hybrid warfare and cyberattacks on our institutions and the deliberate dissemination of false information and manipulation of messages to create division and mistrust. but these regimes, these authoritarian regimes, they didn't stop there. they have also established close links with parties in this house. the italian lega nord, the french national rally, the austrian fpö have all concluded cooperation agreements with putin's party. german afd and hungarian fidesz were used as election observers in the russian-controlled donetsk and luhansk. in sweden, the leader of the sweden democrats, jimmie åkesson, could not choose between joe biden or vladimir putin. the eu has shown itself to be unanimously against the war. it is also time to show that we are united against the war on europe. it is not only peace that we must defend, but also our fundamental freedom.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. information is a deadly weapon. telling the truth is a crime in today's russia. no one can ignore the fact that russia is turning lies into truth, in order to achieve its aims and to undermine and destabilise democracy in europe and its neighbours, to make its own population eagerly embrace the open liberal society and to persuade them to support putin on false grounds and not to be dragged into the decadence of western freedom. the truth is, without the lies, putin would never have been able to invade ukraine. then why is russia lying? well, because it has worked - because too many people, for too long, have been far too naive. we must stop playing into putin's hands, stop the lies, expose the disinformation, protect our democracy and integrity.
madam president, for the first time in decades, europe is facing a wide—scale war. this is also highlighting the failure to remain consistent with our values. for too long, we were naive, falsely believing that by engaging with authoritarian and totalitarian regimes, we can change them. today, we see the consequences of this naivety. instead, these regimes have been seeking to corrupt our democratic processes, degrade our economic strength, divide our society, undermine our alliances and rewrite international norms to suit their malign interests. even worse, they seek to subvert the very notion of truth. how we respond will determine the world in which we will live. we must remain united and, above all, to seek and defend the truth and the very values on which our union has been founded, because truth and our values make us stronger and are the best weapon we have to fight back against those wishing to subvert our freedom.
madam president, nothing is more dangerous to an authoritarian leader than citizens who think and speak freely. these people deserve to be tried in a biased court, in labor camps, even in torture chambers. the authoritarian leader therefore often sees, and rightly so, that his system is threatened from outside. with its fifth columns present almost everywhere in the member states of the european union, and even in this parliament, it is trying to impose its views, to overturn majorities which it has not acquired. new technologies are used as powerful amplifiers in manipulation operations. let's face it, we have little to go on. in fact, we have only one, and that is the good: the training of the critical mind, from an early age, capable of distinguishing between truth, approximation, falsehood, lie, misinterpretation. i would like to conclude with a quote from frans timmermans: 'putin is not afraid of nato enlargement, putin is afraid of the enlargement of democracy'. a free society -- and this is my quote -- is an enlightened society. an enlightened society has no fear.
madam president, putin’s invasion of ukraine is part of a wider campaign to undermine our democracies. disinformation and foreign interference isn’t a new phenomenon, but russia has digitised it, and it has combined it with other hybrid tactics. it’s a playbook that has been borrowed and has been used before – be it by china, by venezuela or by trump. sometimes it feels that people may want to accept convenient lies. but we have to make sure that we can lead them to the sometimes uncomfortable truth. this is why, more than ever, we need to increase our media literacy and critical thinking. also, platforms can and should do more. i wonder why there are some russian state accounts that are still active on several platforms. this, for me, is hard to justify. tackling disinformation without suppressing free speech is a major task for europe. this is why we need a special disinformation war room, for which i have already called – and if we ever wanted to try this, now is the time to do it.
a uachtaráin, elections are, first and foremost, an expression of the will of the people. yet efforts by foreign entities to influence domestic elections have shaken democracies around the world. with unbridled access via social media to virtually everywhere, propaganda and misinformation have been weaponised to an extent not seen before. in europe, we have seen the horrors of propaganda and the devastation it can cause. putin has tried to lock away his people from the world, closed their eyes to his inhumane attacks on the innocent, and seeks to rewrite history in real time – all the hallmarks of a tyrant. suffocated disinformation campaigns deeply sullied the us presidential election in 2016, as well as the brexit vote. we must ensure we have the tools in place to respond to this new reality. free and fair democracies are worth defending, and no country or people should think they are immune from interference.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam president, first of all i would naturally like to greet all women on this international women's day and in particular to say a word to the ukrainian women who, either in ukraine or now outside, have shown so much courage. in these last 13 days, the unjustified, criminal and illegal russian invasion and aggression of ukraine is also a product of our tolerance for disinformation, for fake news that we have had over these 10, 12, 13, 14, 15 years. in effect, putin and russia have been using social media and digital platforms and paying extremist parties, left and right, to create a communication and information environment that has sown the seeds of this war. that is why this report, the kalniete report, is so important. because even before the war, he demonstrated how the manipulation of information, the manipulation of political discourse and the interference in elections are the fodder and the seed for a war of aggression like the one we are living through. so we're going to have to follow all the signs to put together a strategy or a mechanism for security, cyber defense and resilience to avoid the failures of the past.
madam president, i would like to thank you. disinformation, cyberattacks, hacking, threats against journalists, funding of extremist parties, espionage - yes, the list can be made long in this low-intensity war that has been waged against europe for years, not just now. but that's enough. we cannot allow russia to wage information warfare so that putin can justify his attacks on innocent civilians and children in ukraine. we cannot allow russia to buy european politicians with board seats so that europe becomes dependent on russian gas. we cannot allow these dictatorships to influence democratic elections in the western world, as they did with brexit and in the united states. we cannot allow china to buy up european ports and other vital infrastructure to use against us. we have to stop the russian gas, isolate the russian economy and have tough sanctions. but we can also do much more to protect the resilience of europe as a whole, both militarily and by other means. the fight for freedom, democracy and a bright future for the peoples of europe is more important than ever. it's the most important fight we'll be fighting in our generation. we can no longer allow russia and china and other dictatorships to exploit our open societies. it's a fight we have to fight hard every minute and we have to do it now.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, putin’s war against ukraine is first and foremost a war against civilians, against women, against children, against all the ukrainian people. the barbaric actions of the russian military, which qualify as war crimes, are destroying ukrainian towns and villages, killing and injuring ukrainians. there is no safe place in ukraine today and no guarantee of security for the future to anyone. ukrainian refugee flows are already exceeding 100 000 people a day. this number will continue to grow and will cover wider and wider areas of ukraine. by the end of this week, the refugee influx will exceed the 2015-2016 scale, at least by twice. just a few days ago, together with my colleagues, members of the european parliament, i visited the polish, ukrainian border crossings and the refugee reception centres. i commend the polish side for the well—organised reception of refugees and the provision of assistance. however, i would like the ukrainian refugees to feel eu solidarity, support, assistance and protection as well. we need to ensure the eu presence in every single border crossing and refugee reception centre. our solidarity must be translated into real aid action in real time. slava ukraini!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. as the little ukrainian family stood in front of me in their shelter in my office, exhausted from three days of flight, my first thought was, i hope all the others make it. i therefore appeal to the people of russia: lay down your arms, stop this war! this has to stop! and yes, all solidarity goes to the people of ukraine, who are receiving great support in the member states and are having an immediate chance of being able to integrate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but the treatment of refugees from ukraine shows one thing clearly: that the eu and its member states can take in people if they want to. such a spirit must be reflected in all migration policies towards all refugees fleeing war and discrimination. there can be no first- and second-class refugees. because solidarity is not divisible.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i have been a member of this parliament since 2014, and many people know that the carpathian people born in ukraine, as hungarians, are directly affected by the humanitarian conflict caused by the war. it is important that as few civilians as possible are killed, and that the war should end as soon as possible. in the meantime, however, it is important that we continue to provide humanitarian assistance to those inside ukraine. for example, the transcarpathian region has received a large number of people, refugees from the interior of ukraine, who are being cared for there, and those who are seeking refuge in neighbouring countries need to be helped. since february 24th, two million people have left ukraine, and 190,000 people have arrived in hungary, to whom the hungarian government and people are giving all possible help. hungary has responded to the crisis with one of the largest humanitarian aid operations in the world and supports joint eu programmes, despite facing many unjustified accusations. on weekends, i visited relief centers along the hungarian-ukrainian border, and i saw an amazing unity. the hungarian government, the municipalities, the ngos, the volunteers are trying to help the people in trouble, the women, children and the elderly who arrived in hungary with a suitcase. let us do everything possible to promote peace as soon as possible and to help those fleeing war with all our might.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam minister, i would like to start by echoing the praise for the frontline states, poland, romania, hungary and slovakia, but of course also the non-eu countries like moldova, because in their countries citizens, civil society and local authorities are doing really an incredible job and i take a deep bow to their humanity and commitment. so we welcome the eu support provided to those countries, and i would like to join the urgent call of the commissioner for frontex and easo to be closely involved in the operation. we also strongly salute the activation of the tpd, but now we also have to take the next step. europe has to move on from ad hoc solutions to a coherent, structural and common migration and asylum policy. just as europe will be stronger by achieving energy independence, we will be stronger with a common asylum and migration policy, and i therefore invite the council to agree a roadmap with the european parliament, a timetable for the swift adoption of the entire asylum and migration package. the warm welcome to the ukrainian refugees is europe at its best. colleagues, it is the cradle of human rights, a community of values and europe should also be a safe haven for those russians fleeing the brutal putin regime and the soldiers who refuse to fight his dirty war. but let us also not forget the other migrants. those who are still left dying on the borders of europe pushed back and beaten, because europe will offer safety to all people equally, because that’s who we are.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, some people claimed that, thanks to the european union, war would no longer exist and would be recorded in history books, that the european union would be the diplomatic bulwark that would be credible enough to provide deterrence or to safeguard peace at home and with its neighbours. these guys must be hung over. war has broken through our doors, the doors of europe. while we strongly and unequivocally condemn the russian invasion of ukraine, i would nevertheless call on mrs von der leyen to show more restraint and humility in her statements. the situation is serious enough that we cannot stir up the red rag. the european union is not at war; it must be the embodiment of reason, encourage calm and help to find a diplomatic solution. stop the bidding! it is in the humanitarian field in particular that our efforts must be focused, and the task is immense. the high commissioner for refugees expects the movement of over 5 million ukrainian refugees. if the national rally, to which i belong, has been fighting with all its might for more than 40 years against the insane migration policy we are facing, as is the case with the migration pact imposed on us by the european commission, there are situations where, again, pragmatism must take precedence over ideology. the humanitarian situation in ukraine is an example of this, because these refugees have nothing in common with the economic migrants who besiege lampedusa or melilla, most of whom are men and who we know are not fleeing war, but are often importing it to us. no, in ukraine, there are women, there are children, there are old people who are not looking to settle down, but just to protect themselves while their husbands, their sons, their fathers, bravely took up arms to defend their country, their homes, their families. yes, europe must help to welcome these war refugees, just as we believe that it is up to africa, the middle east and asia to manage and take on the displacement of people from these regions. yes, we have a duty to welcome these europeans who share a common territory, a common civilization or a christian culture with us. yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to welcome these refugees, because they are genuine war refugees.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. five hundred years ago, the english poet john donne, later quoted by hemingway, wrote, "ask not for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee". after five centuries, we can say the same thing in the context of ukraine, the people -- because it's the people -- the people of ukraine who are looking for help, our help, help in the countries of the european union. i'm proud as a pole that my country, my people, the society i'm part of, are providing this help. and i also thank the other countries that are doing this. and i also thank those members of the european parliament with whom we sometimes disagree in this chamber, and who today have seen this polish aid as a great help. thank you so much for that. i wanted to say that mr waszczykowski was right when he showed what happened six years ago: the eu-turkey deal, 6 billion euros in two instalments, where - note! - turkey has taken in 1.7 million refugees. poland alone has taken in 1.2 million refugees to date. i think it's worth thinking about a similar aid, but just as dedicated, very specific. we gave money to the turkish state so that the children could use the schools. i think that similar instruments of assistance must be available to the countries that are offering that assistance today and to those refugees. i just wanted to say that today we have an open heart. what will happen in two months, what will happen in six months, when the number of refugees may be over five million? i hope that in six months we'll be as open and open-hearted as we are today.
madam president, there is no adjective to describe the human catastrophe caused by russia's military aggression against ukraine. there is no reason that can justify this invasion with all the death and horror it leaves in its wake. among other excuses, putin has been particularly cynical in claiming that he is conducting this invasion to protect the russian and russian-speaking minorities in ukraine, while the civilian population of russian-majority cities, such as kharkiv and mariupol, are the ones who suffer the most from the invasion in the west and south of ukraine. it is intolerable that putin manipulates the right of peoples to self-determination to justify the territorial ambitions of his authoritarian nationalism. the right to self-determination cannot be suppressed by authoritarian states, but it cannot be manipulated to legitimize armed aggression against free nations. the union must take a stand and work to put an end to the russian aggression, the war and its humanitarian consequences. the first of its obligations is to support ukrainian refugees entering the union and it is therefore good news that the council approved temporary protection for ukrainian citizens last thursday. of course, all member states must participate jointly in the effort to welcome these refugees.
madam president, in these dark times in europe the only light that we see is the bravery from our ukrainian friends but, i would like to say also, the resolute european response, the unity, the responsibility and also the solidarity. still, we know that this will not be enough. firstly, ukraine needs more support to protect itself. we need, for example, to stop funding russian gas and oil, to stop funding putin’s war. secondly, ukrainians need more solidarity from all european countries to welcome and integrate refugees. there i would like to echo the message from other colleagues in the european parliament. i would like also to invite the council to take this opportunity to have a swift adoption of the migration pact. thirdly, ukraine needs more humanitarian assistance. yes, we have mobilised a lot, but it is far from enough and we need to establish safe humanitarian corridors that actually lead to europe and not to russia or belarus. slava ukraini!
mr president, the kremlin’s useful idiots are historically found on the left. it saddens me that some on the right have become infatuated with putin’s pretend conservatism. all conservatives should know that putin is not a traditionalist bulwark standing up against the weak woke west. putin has built a morally bankrupt system. systematic bribes, corruption, killings, stealing, lies and now sending russia’s youth to die while killing their slavic brethren. is putin defending christendom by using fanatical chechen islamists and syrian mercenaries in ukraine, forcing one and a half million people away from their motherland and tearing families apart? is that in line with family values and respect for the love of one’s home? what about ‘love thy neighbour’? is cluster bombing residential areas compatible with the commandment ‘thou shalt not kill’? wake up! imperialism is the antithesis to free nations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. people running for their lives, families being torn apart, children being killed, live, just hours from here. the reality has shown that the eu's faltering asylum and migration policy, focusing on closed borders, return and cooperation with states that do not respect democratic rules of the game, is not enough. that policy has played its part. it's not what people who are running for their lives need. the temporary protection directive is therefore very welcome. but more is needed. the eu is the freest and most prosperous region in the world. we have a duty and a responsibility to practice solidarity with the people of ukraine. we must also provide shelter for those fleeing war and terror, regardless of nationality, regardless of background. we must never normalize and never accept racism.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you guys! all of a sudden, olof palme's words 'these murderous devils' are again topical in europe, as putin's fascism is embodied in the invasion of ukraine. putin's place is neither in the kremlin nor on the streets of russia. he belongs in the international military tribunal. women and girls are subjected, as in many other conflicts, including in ukraine, to sexual violence by russian soldiers. women and children are now in the clutches of pimps and human traffickers. putin's barbarity knows no bounds. millions of people from ukraine are fleeing right now. we must act together to support them. humanitarian corridors must be established immediately. the situation is alarming, but i am proud of the joint responsibility that all our member states have shown towards ukrainian women, children and others in urgent need of help, by immediately activating the mass migration directive. the eu and all member states must also continue to increase humanitarian aid. wherever you are from, wherever you live, wherever you are, know that our solidarity knows no boundaries. i'm going to the ukrainian slava.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i survived a war when i was ten years old that changed my life forever. i remember my single mother grabbing me and running. i remember her trying to protect my body with her little body, thinking she could keep me alive in case the bombs hit us. i also remember the little syrian boy alan, whose body washed up on the beaches of greece. he fled the war in syria, but never made it to safety. i also remember the tiny, lifeless, 18-month-old boy kirill from mariupol, his lifeless body and the desperate attempts of his parents and doctors to save his life. there was no way to save it. what we are witnessing today is a great tragedy, but we must not allow this tragedy to lead us to become inactive. we must do everything we can to support the ukrainian people, and we can do this in two ways: one is to establish immediately humanitarian corridors to protect the civilian ukrainian refugees, and the eu must provide all the support we can to protect them. the second is that we have to go hard against hard against putin. the russian oil smells of ukrainian blood. as we continue to buy russian oil, we also continue to give money to this war. this is probably the biggest test for the union in many decades. let us continue to stand united for the people of ukraine. i'm going to the ukrainian slava.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! in 2011, when germany decided to shut down its nuclear power plant, a toast was made to the russian embassy in berlin. a german journalist has testified to the russian ambassador raising his glass and saying: "congratulations to the german government, this is a good day for russian energy policy, a good day for russia". so he was right, because here we are, over a decade later. russia has invaded ukraine, and the eu has put itself in an extremely dangerous situation, as the transition to renewable energy has made us dependent on russian gas. and yet, you now want more of the same medicine. nuclear power will continue to be shut down and replaced by weather-dependent solar and wind power. one new dictatorship will be replaced by another. this time by china. china now produces 80 percent of the world's batteries and 70 percent of the world's solar cells. it also has a monopoly on many critical metals. this is what happens when you subordinate everything to unthinkable climate goals. this is not a game. all decisions have consequences in this case extremely serious. a strong, stable and competitive union must be self-sufficient in planned and affordable energy. it is time to stop the climate nonsense, to stop the nuclear phase-out and to invest in new modern technologies, efficiency improvements, preparedness and innovation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. international women's day is today, and there are real problems for women in europe. last but not least, many have mentioned the women who are now being affected in various ways by the war against ukraine. however, the message of the european parliament on this day is about gender mainstreaming. it is a form of gender equality work which assumes that the gender power system permeates everything and that we must therefore analyse in each individual situation how proposals affect men and women differently. firstly, i do not share the idea that we live in a society that is totally permeated by misogyny, and secondly, it leads to work that i consider either to be purely banal, as i myself learned from my years in municipal politics, where gender mainstreaming in practice meant, among other things, that we would make a gender perspective when we were going to build the water and sewage system. unfortunately, it is all the worse when the work is about what is described in the parliament's proposed position, where it is about harmful proposals for quotas at all levels and how we are expected to be appalled, among other things, by the fact that only three of our seven political groups have a woman as their chair. it's kind of hard to get it a little bit more even than three out of seven, unless we can throw in a non-binary person there, too. there is a war in europe, but it is not a war between the sexes, as one might think when reading the report on gender mainstreaming. i hope that parliament can choose to focus on the real problems of gender equality instead.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. colleagues, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. there is not a single woman anywhere in any time who has not fallen victim to the patriarchal structures that exist in our union and beyond. democracy and human rights cannot and must not remain mere words. the rights of women and girls are human rights and are absolutely essential to the freedom of all people. our fight for gender equality must therefore be waged within our union and globally. our new action plan for the eu's global work on gender equality, the third of its kind, sets out the direction we want to take and equips us with tools. it both obliges and shows the way by proposing measures that should, can and must be taken. our report on the action plan also makes it clear that the cap iii must also be further strengthened. it is both symbolically and practically important that on this day, 8 march, international women's day just like every other day we are clear in our solidarity with women and girls around the world by discussing how we can further strengthen the work. but solidarity must also be expressed in action. silence is not an option when half the world's population is murdered, oppressed, threatened, hated and made to bear the burden of inequality in our societies, when patriarchal structures systematically suppress women's voices and when sexual violence is used as a weapon of war. one of the most recent examples of the use of the abhorrent phenomenon of sexual violence is the aggression of the dictator putin against ukraine. feminism is the science that women and men, girls and boys, are equal in value and that inequality must be broken. i am therefore glad that in our report we are clearly following the swedish feminist foreign policy. i assume that the commission will take this requirement into account in its future work. it includes women's participation in peace processes and political decision-making. reports from 2015 show that 80 percent of parliamentarians around the world hear and wonder were men. so 50 percent of the population has access to only 20 percent of the power. so we women as a group are not entitled to our basic freedoms and rights or the ability to change our situation when we are pushed away from having access to the tools to change. as a social democrat and feminist, i am also glad that we clearly underline in the report the importance of access to sexual and reproductive health and rights worldwide, including the rights of lgbtq people. the 2030 agenda, or as i like to call it, the toolbox that can save humanity, is critical to achieving our goals. we can end inequality and all the violence that women and girls face every day. the recipe is spelled political will. colleagues, don't forget what the society should do. it is to beat dictators, and not women.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! march 8 is an important day, a day to highlight the achievements of women's rights, but it is also a day to highlight all the challenges and injustices that remain. but most of all, it is a day to raise our ambitions. we're gonna stick to our goals and make sure we actually do something. we know that women's rights are human rights, which should be taken for granted. the third eu action plan on gender equality contains important objectives. if these objectives are to make a real difference, they must be fully implemented and prioritised in all parts of eu action. it requires political leadership, just as in my home country of sweden, where we have a feminist government that has decided that the way forward is an equal society. we social democrats demand that the eu step up its work on gender equality, both within and outside our union. if we do not speed up, it will take three generations before our daughters can live in a europe of equality. women and men, girls and boys, should have equal power to shape society and their own lives. it is simply a prerequisite for a sustainable and peaceful world.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is time again for the european parliament to present its wish list for the social field and the labour market, in the context of the planning session. unfortunately, we see once again that there seems to be no limit to the power that the left in parliament wants to transfer from the member states to the eu level. this year, for example, there has been a proposal to introduce a child benefit at eu level. in addition, we have a long list of destructive proposals which are used to achieve our social objectives and a functioning labour market. the commission is proposing to dissolve parts of the stability and growth pact. the leftists claim that this pact is the root of all the evil in our society. at the same time, growth is actually what gives more people jobs, that people and families can afford to have a higher standard of living. that's what gets people out of poverty. a reduction in debt will ensure that our children and grandchildren can grow up without having to pay for our abundance. the defence of the stability and growth pact is accused of being a form of crude, cold capitalism. but i want to challenge that image. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, how many batteries do you have in your home? i tried to count mine: cell phone, computer, headphones, toys, speakers, smoke alarms and, hopefully, in my next car. batteries do play an increasing role in our lives to ensure that appliances and services used daily, like mobility and energy storage, work. we need batteries for electrification and innovation as we leave fossil fuels behind us. the european batteries regulation is a new type of environmental legislation model that follows the product’s lifecycle from manufacturing to consumption and all the way to recycling into new products. with the new regulation, we will have more sustainable batteries that require responsibility for both human rights and the environment. their carbon footprint has to be declared in a special passport and the material has to be recycled. with the new regulation, it will be easier to replace worn out batteries with new, recycled ones. a fully harmonised regulation, applicable in all member states, also increases predictability for all stakeholders involved. a circular economy is a win for us and for the climate, and a decarbonised future requires sustainable batteries.
the committee on agriculture has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. it's been a little over a week since the ipcc published its latest assessment, which is the most comprehensive assessment of the impacts of climate change to date. it's an incredibly sad read. the effects are more serious, come faster than expected and the final sentence of the report is clear. it says: any further delay in coordinated and preventive global action will miss a short and rapidly disappearing window of opportunity to secure a habitable world. however, i am incredibly proud of the work of the green group on this legislation, and not least of the work of my dear colleague grace o'sullivan - and what a wonderful opening speech you made, by the way. the commission's proposal for this important piece of legislation was somewhat overshadowed by their non-binding strategies. to be honest, it was a relatively empty framework. but we greens have now filled it with concrete content to create real system change, not least that for the first time in a legally binding text in the eu we have in print that we need an end date for fossil subsidies in line with the 1.5 degree target. it's been a challenge for us greens to get through it. it should be obvious. but now that everyone sees what our continued funding of fossil fuels can contribute, namely funding putin's war machine, funding the suffering of the ukrainian people, i also hope that everyone understands the importance of today's decision and that we should of course have taken it a long time ago. climate policy is security policy. let's take it seriously once and for all and use this environmental action programme to really implement a real green transition. the climate crisis is a race against the clock, and soon the clock will be ticking.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu is the world's largest economy and the world's most powerful environmental organisation. i am a great european, and i am proud of the eu's work to save the climate, protect biodiversity, and secure access to clean water in lakes, seas and rivers. much has been done, but the biggest challenge lies ahead: the elimination of environmentally harmful subsidies is a crucial issue where we must see more results. without international cooperation, we will be unable to tackle the common environmental challenges we share globally or the problems we must solve locally. without green rules for our international trade and rules for the internal market, we cannot develop the circular economy. however, it is very gratifying to see how the eu is leading the way. today it is impossible to speak of our joint european environmental work without taking the russian invasion of ukraine as a starting point. there is nothing more important than stopping the flow of russian oil and gas. first of all, because it's russian. second, because it's a fossil. my thoughts are with the people of ukraine who are fighting for their freedom and for the freedom of europe. at this very moment, in the midst of this debate, i am thinking of the environmentalists with whom i collaborated a few years ago. today we will give ukraine all the political, economic and military support we can. one of the most important things we can do is to welcome ukraine into the european community as soon as possible. the country has been preparing for a long time, and i can hardly think of a more worthy candidate. a free ukraine will be an important partner in developing eu environmental work as well.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, at the heart of democracy lies transparency, because without transparency, there is no accountability. let me quote the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, herself, back in 2019: ‘if europeans are to have faith in our union, its institutions should be open and beyond reproach on ethics, transparency and integrity’. yet in 2020, the words seem to still be just words, because if the true will would have been there, we wouldn’t have needed to call for a debate to demand access to what should have been an obvious thing to do. be open with the commission president’s conversation with pfizer’s chief executive, regardless of if they are done via text message, email, letter or even pigeons. the commission president could have transformed her words from 2019 into actions in 2020 in order to pave the way for all our union’s institutions and constituted a role model for the member states, but instead, she chose the opposite. being an advocate for rule of law and democracy means understanding the importance of public access to documents. this is because in a functioning democracy, the public power requires the trust of the people. public access enables the citizens to exercise control over the administration. public access allows for civil society and journalists to exercise their fully-fledged scrutiny over society and its functions. by allowing transparency, we build citizens’ trust and confidence, and we combat undemocratic ideas and powers. there is a clear link between a high degree of transparency and a low level of corruption. this is because transparency allows us to detect corrupt practices and prevent it. public access to information means preventing corruption and creating trust. to achieve trust is truly a challenge for a union with approximately 450 million citizens in 27 member states. this is important and something we must be mindful of because transparency is only resisted when governments see it as a threat and transparency is only a threat when we have something to hide. the lisbon treaty clearly demands more transparency in the eu, and especially so in legislative procedures. transparency is what citizens have the right to demand and what the eu has a duty to deliver. the time is now to update the union’s legislation on access to documents. the current legislation is two decades old and needs a thorough makeover to provide our citizens with their fundamental rights.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the textile sector has a major impact on climate, the environment and human rights. that is why we need rules and guidelines on how to reduce all the negative impacts that are a fact today. we have tried to persuade the commission to present a comprehensive approach, which is also what the industry is demanding. we have done everything we can to ensure that you come up with binding proposals, not to keep the door open to arbitrariness. we have presented figures and facts about discrimination and human rights violations in industry that we could take steps away from. my questions to the commissioner responsible are as follows: will the strategy include a binding climate target that includes all emissions from our consumption? will the strategy take account of the fact that we need to drastically reduce our consumption and production of textiles? how can i? do you set goals for this? how will you ensure that the gender perspective is integrated at all levels of the value chain?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, democracy is in danger all over the world. journalists are being killed even on open streets and a dangerous culture of impunity is growing. the spike in the murder of journalists in mexico is a part of the deteriorating situation of journalists in the whole world. 2020 has proved to be a very deadly year for journalists in mexico, and it is the worst place on this planet in which to exercise their profession. between 2012 and 2022, 78 journalists were killed in the country; 33 of them were killings linked to their professions. violence against journalists, human rights defenders, indigenous women and lgbti people are rarely investigated or prosecuted. dear colleagues, it is a matter of deep concern and a mockery that a country with these kinds of growing violations continues to call itself a democracy. inhuman acts of killing and violence against journalists and human rights defenders in mexico must be condemned. the mexican authorities must uphold commitments to investigate and resolve these crimes and prosecute perpetrators to the full extent of the law. that is how it should be in a rule—based country. the mexican government must strengthen protections for journalists and human rights defenders, and the authorities must implement their international commitments on human rights and the rule of law. the eu can’t continue with business as usual. we need to toughen up and step up our support for the journalists and human rights defenders and all those who are suffering right now at the hands of the mexican government.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. journalism is never a crime. the degree of media freedom and the ability of journalists to express themselves is a litmus test of a country's democracy. when journalists are harassed, imprisoned, murdered, as in mexico, it's our responsibility to watch and act. mexico stands out, but unfortunately, it's not unique. in china, belarus and not least in russia, we see clearly the same pattern and how dangerous - how life-threatening - it is to be a journalist. trustworthy, democratically elected officials dare to be criticized and scrutinized. insecure, desperate, more or less self-appointed presidents around the world are using every means to silence free speech. by disinformation and controlling what is said and heard, they want to control their population. the goal is to distort people's worldview so that they are not forced to obey but choose to obey on false grounds. telling the truth is the greatest threat to authoritarian leaders. we see the courage of those journalists and activists in mexico who are subjected to brutal attacks. we must hold the government accountable and sanction all those responsible for the violence. freedom of speech is the foundation of democracy in europe and the world.
author. – madam president, i want to start with thanking my colleagues from the different groups represented yesterday at the meeting for very fruitful and constructive negotiations, and i hope that we will be able to send a clear message to the horrific military junta in myanmar today. over one year has passed now since the bloody military coup in myanmar. the military junta has erased years of progress and the people are suffering. it is with a heavy heart that we observe the deteriorating situation, but we can’t continue just observing. we need to strengthen the sanctions and demand change. that includes eu companies taking their share of responsibilities also. we can’t just observe while violations of international law are taking place because it is about real people’s lives we are talking. there has been an increasing number of reports of violent attacks and killings against civilians, labour unions, journalists, religious representatives and peaceful democratic protests. according to the un, over 14.4 million people are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. of the affected, the most vulnerable are women, girls and children. the international community has to drastically increase demand of an immediate end of the military junta’s violence towards the civilian population, including religious and minorities such as the rohingya. we cannot stand by while the people of myanmar are suffering. the latest two weeks have shown that actions can be taken if the will is there. let us create the will today before it is beyond even more of our control.
author. – madam president, the recent situation in nagorno-karabakh is a systematic attempt by azerbaijan to erase armenia’s history and its rich culture. the armenian cultural heritage dates back to ancient times and needs to be treated with the respect that it deserves. azerbaijan’s attack on the armenian cultural heritage is an attack on its people, a country and most importantly, it is an attack on its future generations. it is also an attack on international commitments. in its attempt to rewrite history, to assert dominance, azerbaijan has resorted to the destruction of cultural treasures that future generations now never get to enjoy. this is something that i, with my own kurdish roots, have seen happening to my people and our identity for decades by turkey. it has consequences beyond possibility of explanation. in december 2021, the international court urged azerbaijan to cease all destruction of armenian cultural heritage. the resolution that we will vote on today provides us with an opportunity to send a clear message to azerbaijan. the world is watching and we will not stay quiet if this silence and threat of violence doesn’t stop. the european parliament must stand firm against the unacceptable action of azerbaijan. international agreements must be followed. we therefore call upon azerbaijan to comply with its obligation, especially with regard to its membership in unesco, which clearly opposed the destruction of all cultural heritage. enough is enough.
author. – madam president, commissioner, i witnessed the results of the islamic state’s cultural genocide against christians, chaldeans, assyrians and syriacs when i visited iraq and syria. desecrated millennia-old churches, decapitated statues of mary, destroyed icons, charred pages from bibles that littered the streets. to destroy cultural heritage is to erase an identity, a history, a nation. azerbaijan’s president aliyev is following in the footsteps of the islamic state. during the war in 2020, azeri armed forces deliberately twice shelled the holy saviour cathedral in shushi. shortly afterwards, azerbaijan destroyed the 18th-century st john the baptist church. reports in satellite imagery have meticulously tracked the systematic destruction of almost 100 medieval armenian churches, thousands of cross stones and tens of thousands of tombstones. as these sites of religious significance, of history and of culture are destroyed, we may not see them, but we will never forget. president aliyev has sought to cover up his crimes by distorting history through the promotion of false albanisation theories and the erasure of armenian scripture on churches. we can’t let him get away with it. commissioner, colleagues, the eu needs to speak up, condemn the cultural genocide committed by president aliyev against armenian christian heritage sites. will you hold him accountable for the continued cultural genocide against armenians? we must sanction him. palmyra, maaloula, qaraqosh, st john’s baptist church in shushi. lest we forget.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the following article is inserted: all children have the same rights and equal value. the following article shall apply: the best interests of the child shall be taken into account in all decisions concerning children. the convention on the rights of the child sets out the human rights of children, and all eu member states have committed themselves to upholding them. we heard that a ukrainian child is fleeing ukraine every second. russia's brutal war on ukraine is also a brutal war on the children of ukraine. we must always defend the rights of children, and of course even in war. last week we social democrats called on the council and the commission to draw up an immediate package to protect and help children, both those who are fleeing from ukraine and those who are still in ukraine. we are glad that the commission has listened to us, and that is good. the aim is to emphasise the importance of the rights of the child, which must be integrated into all measures. because action is needed now.
in writing. it is striking how we need a war on our borders to get a debate on european food security. when we received the results of a number of farm-to-table studies in the summer, they also pointed to a decline in european production, higher food prices and more imports from third countries. in times of imminent food shortages with huge price rises, a solid package of measures is needed. in the short term, i would certainly advocate an exception for the circular use of processed animal manure, to reduce dependence on expensive manure from third countries. a comprehensive european protein strategy is also needed to make our livestock farming more sustainable and less dependent. the coronavirus crisis has shown that eu agricultural policy is working: while we had to beg for mouth masks, paracetamol and chips, the shelves in the supermarkets were full. today it is becoming clear once again that food production is a strategic sector. if we do not act now and take care of our farmers to ensure that food production is high and of good quality, then we may soon have to deal not only with an eu chip regulation but also with an eu food regulation.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner mcguinness, dear minister beaune, integrated capital markets are a prerequisite for sustaining growth over the longer term. i therefore welcome all measures to provide additional input impetus to the european capital markets union. at the same time, digitalisation is rushing through the financial services industry, and to cope with this trend, it is not only vital to make existing financial legislation fit for digital, but also to show an openness towards new technologies that could make financial markets safer and more efficient. the digital finance package is an important milestone in that regard. the technology that underpins crypto assets – the so-called distributed ledgers, or dlt – has a great potential for creative destruction and this will lead to productivity improvements. its possible benefits in the provision of financial services include less complexity, strengthened network resilience, and reduced operational and financial risks. currently, financial markets infrastructures are not authorised to use dlt to issue, trade, and settle financial instruments such as bonds, shares and exchange-traded funds. the dlt pilot regime aims at testing exactly that while also addressing associated risks. the project fully fits the cmu objectives, helps us to keep on track in an evolving digital world and puts the eu at the forefront of innovation. during the trilogues parliament held high six objectives or principles. first, innovation. we followed a ‘sandbox’ approach, meaning that we allow for temporary and conditional exemptions from current legislation. the experience gained that way should foster innovation further. secondly, market integrity. the existing market for financial instruments directive and the central securities depositories regulation apply in a traditional, account-based environment. to ensure adequate regulatory and supervisory requirements for this regime, we checked in detail which rules from both pieces of legislation would also be essential for application in a dlt environment. third principle: investor protection, which i think speaks for itself. fourth element: financial stability. our feeling was that the initial commission proposal was a bit too lenient on financial stability safeguards, as provided for in the csdr. we have significantly strengthened these safeguards. fifth: level playing field. providing equal opportunity to all market players is a fundamental principle of eu legislation. and the sixth and last of the objectives was of course technological neutrality. as a final remark, i would like to address our successors as co-legislators with a few words of caution for the longer term. what works in a limited testing environment does not necessarily work in a broader context. if the project turns out to be successful, simply expanding its scope and changing the permanent regulatory framework for financial services accordingly might create risks that are not noticeable or that were not noticeable in the pilot phase. secondly, future co-legislators should thoroughly scrutinise the exemptions granted under the pilot project before upscaling them. this is notably the case for possible risks linked to settlement in commercial bank money. thirdly, the parliament negotiating team would also have liked a stronger role for esma as a central supervisor of the dlt pilot regime, but that turned out to be a no-go for the council negotiators. let me, to finish, express my thanks to all involved in the file: the shadow rapporteurs, particularly jessica polfjärd, eva kaili, stephanie yon-courtin and ernest urtasun; the slovenian presidency; the european commission, particularly commissioner mcguinness; and of course the parliamentary services.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would just like to say how pleased i am, actually, to be here this evening for this discussion on what has been a very successful agreement on the distributed ledger technology (dlt) pilot project. and i want to begin by thanking, of course, the rapporteur from the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), mr van overtveldt, who has given an extremely good rundown of what has been achieved and indeed given us some warnings about the future, which i have taken good note of. but together we’re paving the way for the future of european finance with this initiative. digital innovation is becoming ever more important, and again, i am pleased that this house shares the commitment of the commission to support innovation within the regulated space. as you know, this regulation forms a key part of our digital agenda and ensures that eu financial services legislation is fit for the digital age. we are providing regulatory certainty to pioneer the use of distributed ledger technology in financial services. so briefly, i want to mention some of the key elements of the agreed regulation. the digital representation of financial instruments on distributed ledgers is expected to open opportunities for efficiency improvements in trading and post-trading processes. the issuance of traditional asset classes in tokenised form will enable them to be issued, stored and transferred on a distributed ledger, which will also increase efficiency. with this regulation, the european union is opening up to the use of dlt in existing financial market infrastructures such as investment firms, market operators and central securities depositories. in concrete terms, it will allow for targeted exemptions from existing rules where those rules would pose technical obstacles to achieving the full benefit of dlt. as regards supervision, national competent authorities will remain in charge for authorisation, while the european securities and markets authorities (esma) can issue an opinion on application. an explanation would be needed if national competent authorities decide to deviate significantly. and last but not least, consumer protection. dlt operators will have to put in place mechanisms to handle client complaints and compensation. in the trilogues, i know that it was especially important for parliament to ensure a level playing field, and a significant role for esma. i’m glad that we were able to find good solutions and significantly improve the commission proposal in these areas. the pilot regime is, by its nature, temporary. it will last five years. this will allow market participants to safely experiment with the dlt to issue, trade and settle securities. this experience will inform future policymaking in digital finance and could open the door to more policy initiatives. before i finish, i want to thank again the rapporteur and all of the shadow rapporteurs, because this is groundbreaking work and i look forward to our debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i should like to thank commissioner mcguinness for being here. i would like to start by thanking the negotiation team under the leadership of johan van overtveldt for the great cooperation on this file. by early on agreeing on several core principles, we made a good proposal even better. the dlt pilot regime is an important step in the work to make europe fit for the digital age. european rules must be innovation-friendly, and this agreement is a good example of sound european lawmaking. as we never know what the future will bring, we should allow experimenting to see what potential benefits new technology might have. and i believe dlt could indeed bring several improvements to how financial markets function. but we will, of course, not know if we don’t try. we have managed several successes in this work. first of all, legal certainty for market participants wanting to try new technologies. also expanding the scope and thresholds will make it more attractive to participants in general. and this is crucial in ensuring the usefulness of this pilot regime. if no one tries, we cannot identify the shortcomings. if we want to use this pilot regime to identify potential changes to the existing rule book, we have to ensure that enough actors participate. i believe it bodes well for future legislation as well, that both in the european parliament and in trilogues, we so easily agreed on the principle of technology neutrality. furthermore, by making use of efma’s expertise in the annual reports, both market participants and regulators will get a better understanding of the progress of functioning, which i believe will be crucial in the coming years. in many ways, this agreement is not only a good example of a european union that understands that we have to be open to new things and internationally competitive: it is an example of a european union that also acts on these facts. that gives me a lot of inspiration for the further work.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu is a cooperation, not an atm. countries that violate the rule of law should not think they can continue to sign off on eu contributions as if nothing had happened. corruption is a poison that undermines democracy. it must be stopped, countered and exposed. the european public prosecutor's office has an important role to play. it is difficult to talk about corruption today without mentioning alexei navalny, who last year received the sakharov prize, the european parliament's prize for freedom of expression. he is a very worthy winner and has paid a high personal price in terms of both attempted murder and long prison sentences for his courageous fight to expose corruption and abuse of power in putin's russia. no one should doubt today that the eu must keep its own door clean. there is no, absolutely no, place for corruption in europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! the warnings of global warming are based on solid research, as is clear from the first part of the un climate report. the second part, on the other hand, is like an insurance company advertisement. a huge focus on risk and disaster scenarios. little focus on probability and relevance. i'm not the first to notice this police state. in the 1990s, the science journal nature wanted to do away with the second part of the report because it no longer focused on promoting science. in 2010, a un commission raised the same problem: a one-sided focus on the negative consequences of warming and often exaggerated and ambiguous conclusions. i urge you to reconsider. we politicians should not act like scientists, and scientists should not act like politicians. our task is to make well-balanced decisions for the whole of society on a scientific basis, not to ideologise research results.
madam president, i have to say something. vice president timmermans! as a meteorologist, i've been following the ipcc's work and reports for over 30 years, and all i can see is that the reports are getting thicker, they're getting more factual, and they're getting more and more warning. at the same time, we can also summarize these reports in a single sentence. because actually, it says, "oh, well, it's a little worse than we thought last time". and that's because of two things. one is that, unfortunately, science is discovering new risks and dangers with climate change. but the second and most important thing is that we as politicians have unfortunately done far too little in these 30 years. i am glad that you, frans timmermans, are saying, first of all, that we may have to raise our ambitions. i'd like to see us change this "maybe" to a "must". it is something we greens have said from the beginning. we have to do that if we're going to be in line with the paris agreement, and that's exactly what the core of the latest ipcc report is.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioners, please! my colleagues! i just got back from ukraine and poland. together with polish volunteers, i visited an area northwest of lviv, around the small town of javoriv. the future of ukraine is on the run. in the villages around, the population has increased, doubled, tripled, by the people - including many children - who are now refugees in their own country. putin's bombs have forced millions of children to flee, forced them to leave their homes. those who should be safe in school or play in day care are instead in uncertainty. teenage rooms have been replaced by tent beds in transit shelters, playgrounds by train stations. at the medyka crossing between poland and ukraine, i witnessed many children and young people's first encounter with the eu. thanks to amazing volunteers, most of them were given warmth, a blanket, some food, and chocolate. at the same time, neither polish authorities nor eu resources were on the ground, and anyone could easily reach the tired and vulnerable people who arrived. at another border station, children had frozen to death and died of dehydration in their mothers' arms. the polish volunteers told about trafficking rings that have systems in place to capture women before they leave ukraine and then take them away once they have crossed the border into poland. i got testimonies from mothers who were forced to pay for their flight across the border with sex. no woman should have to go through this, and no child should have to go through this. the eu must end the buying of sex by men! men buying women and children! how sick is this? how many sick men are there in the eu? who kidnaps children? who has sex with children? who buys and exploits a woman on the run who's lost everything? it's men who have a place in hell. the eu has enormous resources and with them enormous responsibilities. but after the days in ukraine and poland, i'm afraid our big words about how terrible it is are not translated into action. i have nightmares about how we knew, how we heard, how we saw, but we didn't do everything we could.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioners, please! when the theater in mariupol was bombed, a little girl was hidden in concrete and dust. she miraculously survived, but she hasn't spoken since. the war in ukraine is a brutal war against our children. in mid-march, we social democrats therefore issued clear demands for the protection of children affected by the war. i am grateful that we are dealing today with a resolution for the children. no child anywhere should have to experience war. every child has the right to a safe childhood. the european union is also calling for the adoption of a new law on the protection of children, which will be based on the convention on the rights of the child, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the best interests of the child - we have said this many times - must be taken into account in all decisions concerning children. i therefore welcome the clear message from commissioner ylva johansson that we will ensure that children are properly registered at the borders. we're going to see all the kids. the eu must step up its efforts to prevent violence, abuse and trafficking in human beings. priority shall be given to the needs of children, the basic basic needs of food and clean water, psychosocial support and safe spaces for both play, rest and education. children don't just have a right to survive. children also have the right to safety, development, education and play. all children have the same rights and equal value. and now we are going to do everything we can to ensure that the human rights of children are respected and that we are actually living up to our obligations.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. members of the house! first of all, a big thank you to my colleagues, the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and the presidency for a very constructive and sometimes difficult work on change that led to a good result. europe has become colder. a war, a terrible war, has created a coldness that we had hoped we would never have to experience again in europe. the energy crisis has created cold in another, very concrete way. there are those who say we now have to burn oil and gas to get this done, but it's definitely a dead end. europe needs more green energy, more renewable energy, faster investment in this. today's decision on europe's energy infrastructure will facilitate and accelerate this green transition and is absolutely necessary. we can already see how ukraine was connected to europe's energy system a few weeks ago, and that is good, it creates greater stability and security. no one should have to freeze in europe. today's decisions will create a greener europe, a warmer europe for europe's citizens and a europe where more lights of hope can be lit.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are two problems with russian gas. first, it's russian; second, it is gas. after russia's invasion of ukraine, there is no one who can turn a blind eye to the problems. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we have to get rid of russian gas so that putin doesn't have control over our energy supply, over the heat in our homes or over whether our industry is going to work or stand still today or tomorrow. in addition, it is urgent to stop the russian gas now to prevent the flow of money directly into putin's war chest. but we must rid ourselves of all gas, no matter where it comes from, if we are to have any chance of meeting the climate goals. fossil fuels cannot be part of our future. europe's countries need to cooperate more to secure carbon-free energy supplies. the stone age didn't end because it ran out of stones. let us not be stuck in old-fashioned solutions. don't waste any more money on yesterday's gas lines. let us move forward towards a european, sustainable, modern, high-tech, carbon-free energy production and distribution. now is the time for us to build common european electricity grids and infrastructure that will make the green transition possible.
madam president, across europe we are horrified by the barbaric, inhumane war crimes carried out on innocent civilians by russian president vladimir putin’s army. the eu has to do all it can to help ukrainians defend themselves, and must also take action to stop funding putin’s war machine. and this means fundamentally rethinking our energy policy. the revision of the trans-european network for energy (ten-e regulation) offers an important opportunity for the eu to give priority and funding to future-proof europe’s energy infrastructure in a cost-effective manner in line with the green deal. our future lies in renewable generation. and urgent priority should be given to projects that are directly in line with the full decarbonisation objective. however, cost-effective transitions to decarbonisation must also be considered, including lng. this is more important now than ever.
madam president, the past months have shown the importance of a strong, resilient and crisis—resistant energy market. the ten-e regulation, i would say, is actually the foundation for that. enhanced european connectivity will make europe less dependent on third countries, and most importantly, on russian gas and oil. this agreement shows that europe has strong cooperation among member states for more renewables. europe will, with this agreement, promote and invest in clean energy that will be crucial for europe to reach our climate goals. however, in the next revision, i would wish for europe to also value the need for low—carbon nuclear and include financing for small modular reactors in ten-e. this will be needed for our energy, for our climate, and for our european security.
mr president, i know my colleagues are all very eager just to get on with the voting and probably, colleagues, just to vote on the voting lists that are ahead of you and not bother with the concerns of the ppe on pay transparency. you might think that the ppe group just doesn’t care enough about gender equality but, honestly, do you know the details on this matter? are you prepared for the phone calls from your constituencies? i wonder, do you know that this will affect every single company with more than 50 employees? what will you say to the entrepreneur that got sued for pay discrimination, even though the woman suing doesn’t even have male colleagues in the same line of work, and when another company has to pay fines and be branded as discriminating against women because apparently there were other men in other sectors that had higher wages? what will you say to the trade unions when they are no longer free to set wages in the manner that they felt best suited for their members, and when the social partners lose influence? honestly, you’re not listening and not interested in even hearing reasons for a legislative proposal that affects your constituencies, and this is a shame. you don’t deserve the trust of your voters if you cannot even listen to the opponents of the ideas you proposed. this is the responsibility you have, and you obviously have not read this proposal because it’s not in favour of gender equality. it’s just increasing red tape and it’s diminishing the power of social partners. read it before we have this in plenary. that’s what it’s about, and vote minus.
madam president, the return of the taliban regime to afghanistan has turned that country into a real humanitarian emergency, but also a gender emergency. afghan women warned us not to believe their empty promises, their promises that this time they would respect human rights and women's rights. the taliban of today are the same as twenty years ago and women's rights are being trampled underfoot in this country. the closure of schools for girls is just one of the expressions of the daily violation of women's human rights in this country. that's why we have to be absolutely cautious. we cannot make any mistake in the dialogue with this regime that serves them to be able to legitimize themselves; any justification of the taliban regime is to normalize violence against women. i ask you, mr high representative, in addition to promoting dialogue with afghan women, to hold the first international conference of afghan women in exile, so that we can work with the millions of women who are inside this hell that is afghanistan today.
madam president, the defence of human rights must be present in any country where freedom and human dignity are respected. the european union cannot have a double standard when it comes to defending these rights. we see, for example, how strategic relations are maintained, which have compromised our autonomy, with totalitarian regimes which do not respect the most minimal democratic standards. in afghanistan, violent groups have seized power, taking the lives of many innocent people, especially women and children, without a strong response from the european union or even a normalization of relations with these illegitimate powers. the european union, faced with this reality, shows great moral weakness and a lack of international leadership. what can be achieved by limiting action to debates like this? the european union must be consistent with its essence in the values of its faith, culture and traditions if it is to inspire the defence and promotion of human rights, rather than confusing consciences with ideological interpretations of them and remaining silent before the real perpetrators of the tragic situation of afghan women.
madam president, it has been eight months since the taliban captured kabul in a critical and dramatic moment. thereafter, we have witnessed an accelerating humanitarian crisis in afghanistan with a complete reversal of the progress made over the past two decades in the field of women’s rights. there are severe restrictions on women’s and girls’ access to health, education and work. the taliban dictate what women must wear, how they should travel, and enforce workplace segregation by sex. this is totally unacceptable. and yes, we need to provide humanitarian aid to afghanistan. i welcome the clear position of the commission that any future development assistance to afghanistan will depend on the respect of women’s and girls’ rights. nevertheless, even today, we, together with our international partners, are funding schools. we are funding hospitals. i think we have come to a crossroads where we will have to make a decision. can we go on the path to becoming more conditional that this will actually lead to progress for women and girls? or do we need to stop funding that? and that is the decision that i expect the commission to make soon.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! my colleagues! we know that in afghanistan, girls are being prevented from going to school. we know that women are prevented from working, and we know that they are not allowed to travel without the accompaniment of male relatives. all this while more than 24 million afghans are dependent on emergency humanitarian assistance, and 97 percent of the population is at risk of falling into poverty. i'm not sure. we are witnessing an impending humanitarian catastrophe in afghanistan, and we in the eu, the richest region in the world, cannot and must not look the other way and blame ourselves for being distracted by other horrors. we are the ones on this planet with the best, the most, the most opportunities to make a difference. humanitarian aid to afghanistan must be increased and we must continue to work for and protect those who are fighting for their rights, regardless of where they come from, regardless of the colour of their skin.
madam president, i would like to thank you. vice president borrell! china is not only a growing global economy, but also a country with a special status in the united nations. it is a duty, especially when the very basis of cooperation within the un is being violated. the russian invasion of ukraine has brought the matter to a head, and china has disappointed us deeply. no country has the right to invade, occupy or annex another country in order to seize power or move borders. war crimes must be prosecuted and convicted. democracies living in the shadow of powerful dictatorships know all too well how dangerous that can be. today our concern is directed at taiwan and the attempts to directly threaten and bully the free democratic taiwan out of international cooperation, but also at china's aggressiveness towards, among others, the eu country of lithuania, which expresses its support for the taiwanese cause. the eu must always show in words and deeds that democracies stick together. like ukraine, lithuania and my own country sweden, taiwan has the full right to shape its democratic future.
mr president, ‘gullible’ is defined as someone who is deceived or tricked and too willing to believe everything that other people say. i’m afraid no word better describes the eu’s relationship with china over the last few decades. china fooled the world on trade, the origins of covid—19, and now they’re trying to fool us on their support for russia. last year, chinese foreign minister wang yi reiterated that sino—russian strategic cooperation has no end limits, no forbidden areas and no upper bound – a.k.a. the ‘no limits’ partnership. high representative, perhaps it is time the eu made clear that for every euro china supports putin’s and russia’s war effort, we will then invest two in the defensive capacities of taiwan. perhaps it’s time this house asked the eu and the member states that their relationship with taiwan have no end limits, no forbidden areas, and no upper bound!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu-china summit was a flop, which reflects the failures of the strategy of recent years against beijing. we've allowed them to invade our markets, destroy our local economies and buy up our strategic assets. we have allowed them to colonize africa and ukraine itself, and in doing so, we have gained possession of some of the world's most important natural resources. not content with that, we decided to make europe dependent on the very resources over which china now has a near monopoly, as greta thunberg used to say. china is now licking its whiskers in the face of the ukrainian crisis, an opportunity to pocket moscow, to embrace india and thus prepare for a confrontation with the west, of which we do not know the winner, but which will certainly have a loser: europe is not a new continent. so to think that the eu today has the power to bring beijing into line with its will is a delusion. until we re-industrialize and protect our economies, until we regain influence in the mediterranean, until we can be protagonists in the peace and stability processes of our neighbours, well, then we will have to resign ourselves to having a role in the world, not as a geopolitical power to negotiate with, but as a continent to conquer.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in a time of instability and a changing global order, the eu-china summit was a useful reminder that there is another unreliable superpower. while the eu and the west are showing solidarity by condemning russia's illegal invasion of ukraine, china has voiced criticism of western sanctions against russia. the eu must have a clear and strong voice if china actively helps russia to avoid sanctions. we cannot forget beijing's continuing military threats against taiwan, while lithuania is being punished economically for its relationship with democratic taiwan. china has a lot to prove. the communist regime in beijing and the war in ukraine underline the importance of deepening cooperation with stable, credible and democratic allies. we need to strengthen our relationship with the united states to deal constructively with china. the eu should examine the possibilities now open to a free trade agreement with the usa. however, the eu should not seek to isolate china economically, as this will not make china's neighbours or the eu safer. we will cooperate where possible, we will compete where necessary and we will confront where necessary.
madam president, i would like to thank you. you guys! the far-right parties are like a cancerous tumor in our union. they do not want to divide only from within through hatred and threats, because they are not afraid to take help even from outside - from tyrants like putin. the fact is that the extreme right-wing parties and their friends are the greatest threat to our modern and democratic europe. the swedish sweden democrats, the french national rally, the german afd and the hungarian fidesz are some of those who have been caught with links to the putin regime, and some of them have even received financial support from the same kremlin that is currently committing war crimes in ukraine. a few weeks ago, they were putin's biggest supporters, but today they're trying to cover it up. finally, i would like to address my colleagues in the conservative epp group and the liberal renew group, and in particular the swedish parties, the moderates, the christian democrats and the liberals: we may not agree with you on much, but you too can do better than becoming a doormat for the far-right party the sweden democrats by entering into a cooperation with them just to get government power. don't become the useful idiots of the right-wing extremists! let us instead knock the right-wing extremism and their friend putin out of power!
rapporteur. – madam president, legislation that is not followed or upheld is quickly something that just becomes a paper product. and this is particularly clear in the context of the european union, where theory and practice quite often differ. it simply doesn't matter how good or well-written a set of rules are if there's no compliance with them. the issue we're dealing with tonight is the revision of the schengen evaluation and monitoring mechanism, which in other words simply is the union's tools of ensuring compliance with the schengen acquis. the proposed position of parliament that we're going to vote on tomorrow can be summarised in a few points. first, the inspections carried out should, to a greater extent, be unannounced. we know that the position of council is that member states should receive a heads-up at least 24 hours before an inspection takes place. and with the current system, this is what we mean with unannounced. but frankly, it goes without saying that the best example of how a border operates is obtained by inspecting it without any prior notice. therefore, parliament's position emphasises that unannounced inspections should be given special priority, especially when international security risks are suspected. another priority is the question of the follow-ups. there must be consequences if serious shortcomings are discovered in the implementation of the schengen regulation. there must also be strict deadlines when identical flaws are to be resolved, something that is missing apparently in the current regulation. we also call for insight from the european parliament. it is reasonable that such an important common issue, like the implementation of schengen, are subject to a degree of parliamentary transparency. this report therefore proposes that parliament should have the right to send observers to return visits after previously identified shortcomings are made. we also need more inspections. our external border is never stronger than its weakest link. therefore, the commission should carry out inspections in all member states, not just the ones that happen to be the focus of attention at any given time. and the last thing that i would like to mention as this introduction is that once serious shortcomings have been identified, it is vital that council addresses the faults as common challenge for the whole union. in general, when it comes to schengen issues we need to foster a culture of mutual dialogue and trust between member states, especially when flaws in the implementation of schengen rules are detected. i am very pleased with the strong support that this report received in the committee and i would like to urge colleagues that also supported now in a plenary vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to conclude by thanking my colleagues from the other groups for their cooperation and support. it is my opinion that we found compromises that truly reflect parliament's general view on this mechanism. no matter how we view the schengen acquis in general, it is important that we can all agree that rules are to be followed and that the union must have the tools at its disposal to ensure that this is possible, even in practice. finally, i would just like to say the following: this is a consultation process. council is bound to wait for parliament's opinion, but it is not forced to adapt it. i now speak for an overwhelming majority in this house when i say that the next time the schengen monitoring and evaluation mechanism is revised, parliament is expecting that the revision will be done through an ordinary legislative procedure, in which the council will have equal standing with parliament. so with this, i will end by thanking the commissioner for being with us today, and for answering our concerns so well and agreeing on key issues with parliament.
author. – mr president, the further a regime drifts from truth, the more it will punish those who speak it. since russia’s illegal war, war crimes and unspeakable horror in ukraine, hundreds of thousands of russian people have been taking to the streets for peaceful protests. as a response, the russian regime is deploying indiscriminate and illegal force against those protesters. on 22 march, opposition politician aleksei navalny was sentenced to an additional nine years in prison. russia is not only pursuing an illegal war against ukraine and the ukrainian people; it is also continuing to pursue a war against the truth in russia and beyond. but colleagues, putin cannot silence truth with criminalisation and prison. the truth will prevail. and with tomorrow’s vote, the european parliament can show that we will always stand with those who speak it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let us dismiss the people and elect another in their place. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the proposal is a frighteningly clear indication of the undemocratic views of parliament on referendums, individuality and national competences. "since we cannot dismiss the people, we must educate them to think right", seems to be the motto. i myself will continue to be gothic, catechist and swedish with the utmost respect for nation states and their sovereignty, no matter how much education you force on me. and of course i voted no to this eu propaganda.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have the tools and there is money, but it is obviously sad that there are far too many people in power who do not want to change the fact that roma in the eu more than others live in poverty, live without electricity, water and sanitation, do not go to school, do not have a job, have major health problems and in many countries are not even registered as citizens although they have lived in the country for generations. there are probably thousands or more children, roma children, who are not on paper. if there is anything we should be ashamed of, it is that this is happening in the richest region of the world, and if there is anything we should do, it is to change this unworthy reality.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013). what our colleague is expressing is racism, and it is shameful that we are sitting here and accepting that this is being expressed in our house, in our parliament, in europe. i hope that many of us are protesting against this and not normalizing what is happening. everyone heard what she said. do something!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm ashamed to be sitting in a parliament with a bunch of racists. they are the reason we are here today and the reason the hatred and the threat against the roma continues. you are a disgrace to our democratic europe. racism against roma is a disgrace. it doesn't seem to matter how many frameworks or strategies we adopt. the lack of political will to change and to break the injustices they face every day and in their conversation with society school, healthcare, social services, in the search for a job or in the search for a home is visible from afar. all of our citizens deserve to be respected for who they are and given the opportunity to realize their dreams, not to be subjected to hatred and threats even from elected officials. even when the war comes, the discrimination doesn't stop. we are receiving alarming reports that roma fleeing today's ukraine are facing severe discrimination when they try to reach neighboring countries. finally, we have a system in place in the eu where we can cut off financial support to member states that violate the rule of law and human rights. however, it is clear that many member states are completely breaking their commitments to roma when discrimination continues. how do you ensure, commissioner, that no member state will escape its responsibility for the human rights and freedoms of roma? roman children, women, men, young and old... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i welcome the commission’s announcement to put forward, later this year, a legislative proposal under the european green deal on the right to repair. it is an important matter, as repairing broken or damaged products can save consumers money by helping them to postpone making replacement purchases, while bringing benefits to the environment. today, we are asking for effective options for everyone who wants to repair electronics and other devices. in the resolution, we asked for lowering technical, legal, and economic barriers that make it difficult for consumers to repair their own goods. i also believe it should go together with the importance of a sound business environment. that is why my group has put forward several amendments at the committee and plenary level. we strongly believe in the business balance, respect for trade secrets and safeguards such as impact assessments. indeed, we should avoid any disproportionate costs on manufacturers and distributors. we also suggested to improve the single market, especially for services, by removing cross-border barriers for providing repairs. this was regretfully not included in the final text of the resolution. by removing unjustified cross-border barriers for repairs, we would indeed deliver measurable results for citizens, such as more available repair services and more competition. it would eventually bring affordable and better-quality repairs. i strongly believe that we should refrain from considering any measure that could impose disproportionate costs. we should keep as one of our core values the protection of manufacturers, distributors, citizens and consumers across the single market. i hope the commission will take this into account when proposing the new legislative proposal on the right to repair.
madam president, madam commissioner, redesign, reduce, reuse, repair, renew, recover and recycle. this, as you know, is the rule of the seven res, the fundamental pillar of the circular economy. it includes a fundamental step: repair. the right to redress that the european commission intends to create must be based on the circular economy, one of the cornerstones of the green deal. we therefore welcome the commission's presentation a week ago of the circular economy package of proposals, in particular the proposal for a regulation on the ecodesign of sustainable products, based on the seven-res rule i have just mentioned. in general, we have a serious problem with waste management, also in the european union. that is why we must work on proposals that fight planned obsolescence and empower citizens. it's not just an environmental issue, it's an ethical one, too. it's time to break the habit of consumption, of use and throw away. we must return to the commitment to quality and durable products that we made in the past and find ways of making this profitable for our industry and, in particular, for our smes. it should also be an attractive option for consumers, so that repairing a product is an alternative to be assessed before they are obliged to buy a new product. the circular economy will be a competitive advantage not only for our industry, but above all for the environment. let's bet on the circular economy. let's go for the right to redress.
madam chairman! one planet is not enough if the whole world lived as we do here in europe. if the whole world built houses, bought cars, clothes and electronics, as we do in europe, we would need 2.8 earths. it goes without saying that the way we live and produce and buy in europe is not sustainable. we need to get away from this take-it-and-throw-it mentality. an important step towards more sustainable production and consumption is the right to repair. i am naturally pleased that the european commission is considering various options, following pressure from us in the european parliament. there are a lot of things that are hindering us from being able to repair and consume more sustainably. it is time-consuming, it is difficult to get spare parts, and the price of spare parts is actually high too. but we have to change things. we need our products to last longer and also to be able to be repaired. so i would like to urge the commission, in its work towards a legislative proposal, not just to give us a right to information about repairs, but to ensure that we as consumers have a real legal right to have our products repaired. i really believe that consumers can be used to push this green transition forward. if we have the ability as consumers to demand that the product be repaired, then more people will do it, and if more people do it, then we really get the circular economy going. there is good business in it, and there may be a few who lose their jobs, but then there are some other jobs that come in instead. it is a very good combination, and we also know that it is something that consumers are demanding. in fact, 77 per cent of eu consumers prefer to have their products repaired rather than buy new ones. so everything indicates that there will be a lot of support for it, too. we must also, of course, do all the other things we have proposed and which i support. we need to design products to last longer. we have to make sure that the public buys in a lot more green, we have to have a product passport and all these things. but frankly, basically, it's important to us to have a right to have our products repaired.
madam president, we have all faced the frustration of a cracked phone screen, only to go to the manufacturer and be told that fixing it will cost almost as much as a new phone and, if we do it ourselves, it will be out of warranty for everything else. we need to listen to our citizens and we must change this. fixing items must be easier and local businesses and individuals should be able to do it. at the same time, we must do this in a proportionate way. just because something is fixable doesn’t always mean it’s a better product. if something is fixable but breaks every week, is that product better than something that just keeps working for years, but that, once it’s done, it’s done? sustainability doesn’t always equal reparability. we all support a future with better repair options. the days of throwaway culture must be over. however, this should not lead to higher prices for businesses and in turn for consumers. instead, we must incentivise manufacturers over time to adopt new business models, which are a win—win for consumers and for the environment.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! no doubt each of us has experienced times when it was more costly to replace broken equipment than to repair it. repairs are often expensive and time-consuming, and spare parts are often difficult to obtain. as a result, europe is the third largest producer of e-waste we produced over 12 million tonnes of e-waste in 2020. moreover, it is projected that by 2030, this number could double. meanwhile, three quarters of europeans would rather repair broken equipment than replace it. an effective right to repair has enormous potential both environmentally by reducing waste and economically by increasing the competitiveness of businesses and stimulating innovation or job creation. this is also a significant benefit for the consumer, who should have a choice as to whether and how to repair or replace faulty equipment. however, i would like to stress that a thorough cost-benefit analysis is necessary to ensure that the proposed actions are properly balanced and take into account a number of factors such as the cost of repairs and spare parts, adequate access to repairs or the burden on smes.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. that's not good news. i have three juicers in my house because two of them have some minor glitches that either can't be fixed or aren't worth it. we're forced to buy new equipment all the time. the average european produces almost 16 kilograms of e-waste per year, and we have long been demanding a well-functioning right to repair. and what is this right to repair? this is, on the one hand, the obligation to produce equipment in such a way that repairs are possible and cost-effective for the consumer and that spare parts are available for a reasonable period of time on the market, and, on the other hand, information for the consumer that he understands, with clear instructions that indicate the possibilities of using the many repair points. and consumers, when they choose a product in a store, should also be able to compare not only the price and quality of the product, but also the possibility of repairing the product. so i am very pleased that the european commission has responded so positively to our appeals and is taking concrete action to remedy the situation. thank you so much for that. i look forward to a fruitful collaboration. thank you, commissioner.
president, commissioner, many people tell me that their aircraft are running out of time. that sounds like a gut feeling, but no, it's true. on average, appliances break down 20% faster than they did 20 years ago. this is a direct attack on the environment and on people's wallets, who have to buy new copies all the time. it is no wonder that eight out of ten europeans want manufacturers to make their products easier to repair. we have understood that very well here in the european parliament. this resolution calls for the user to be the centre of attention. it deserves a non-binding, but enforceable right to redress, and it must be given access to the correct information. that way, we make repairs affordable, we create a lot of new, locally anchored jobs, and our products really last longer.
madam president, i would like to thank you. if europe is to succeed in meeting its climate goals, we must move from a 'use and throw' society to a more circular economy with sustainable growth. electronic waste is the fastest growing waste stream in the world. it's a huge waste of resources and an environmental disaster that the world cannot afford. but there is hope. today, more and more companies, both large and small, are working to develop new sustainable products and services with growth as their driver, with repair and rental services becoming an increasingly important part of this. using resources more efficiently and extracting more value from what is produced is good for the climate and it is good for entrepreneurship and creates more jobs. but to take every opportunity to want to stop growth and shame those who consume will rather stifle than help the climate. prohibitions, taxes and new bureaucracies are not the answer, but we must break down barriers to trade and remove tariffs on low-carbon goods and open up the market for services and rental, remove the bureaucracy of recycling and clear the labelling jungle so that consumers can trust that what they are buying is truly sustainable. so let's make the right-to-repair law a success in climate change and not another example of political greenwashing.
blue-card speech. – mr president, as you know, the motto of the european union is ‘united in diversity’. and i really believe this is the strength of the european union. and as you’re all aware, there’s also quite a diversity within our groups in the european parliament. and this for a very good reason, i believe, because the message that i have as epp from sweden is probably different than the one representative from epp in germany or in portugal, and so on. so, i really believe that you’re overestimating your electability in other countries. i really don’t understand how someone representing macron’s party from renew thinks that they could speak to a swedish voter and tell them how they are elected. or do you really believe that a major european message would be electable in a country other than yours?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the green group claims that it is out of consideration for the voters that it proposes this, but i wonder what kind of voters you are meeting. when i meet voters in sweden, they often say that we meps are far removed from the reality they are in, that we are not close to the everyday life of people and that this leads to two concrete problems: on the one hand, that we focus on the wrong issues and spend time on things that our voters simply ignore, such as this, but also that we do not fully understand the consequences of the decisions we make and how they affect families and businesses in real life. how will the proposal on transnational lists reduce the distance between voters and politicians? how do you think that's gonna affect the disdain for politicians? what voter has asked to vote for an italian or a finn instead of a person from his own country? the brussels bubble is real. let us try to crack it instead of taking it further and further away from the real people.
rapporteur. – mr president, we’ve seen it before with the global pandemic, and all over again now: education is key during crisis and wars. this report gives emphasis to the importance of education for children’s well-being as a fundamental right, enshrined in the un convention on the rights of the child. and the report comes at a very timely moment, with the horrible war raging in ukraine, weighing a huge toll on children, forcibly displacing them with 4.5 million who left the country and 7 million internally displaced within ukraine itself. for the millions of ukrainian children affected by the war, the distance learning programmes enacted during the global pandemic have proven life-saving and fundamental in ensuring the continuation of these essential formative years of children and young people’s development. as it has been for ukraine, so it is for all children in europe and around the world; education cannot wait and is never negotiable. all over the world, children and young people are experiencing new heights of mental health issues. as legislators, we are called upon to make choices and provide answers because we risk a lost generation if we do not intervene with corrective measures aimed at mitigating these very consequences. we cannot allow ourselves to fail the children in our societies all over the world. we need to do our best to ensure a bright future for the younger generation and make sure that they thrive and reach their full potential, wherever they are, holding no one back but also leaving no one behind. education is one of the most important challenges of the century, and it needs to be treated as a matter of priority, especially in these times of crisis. schools and education provide a safe space for many children around the world, and that’s even truer for girls, giving them a healthy meal a day, shielding them from domestic violence or, even worse, from being sexually abused or exploited or from being recruited as soldiers. so let’s also think about the huge economic losses associated with a lack of proper education – both formal and vocational. children who do not go to schools miss out on important skills that will be necessary for them to enter the labour market when they reach adulthood. with my report, we make an important pledge and give specific recommendations to the eu member states, the commission and the external action service to prioritise education in the recovery plans and in their relationships with third countries. education serves as a catalyst for innovation and human development, including easing young people’s access to the labour market. so this report draws a clear connection between education and entry in the labour market later in life. i will always remember my own teachers who taught me to write with a pen in my mouth, and how she forced me to always try again when i didn’t do get good enough, even if it took me 15 minutes longer than all my classmates. but that helped shape me into who i am today. we know that teachers help shape the next generation, so let’s make sure that all children have a teacher to remember. i want to thank all my shadows and i hope for the full support of all my colleagues on this important topic so close to our hearts.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as an economist, i understand the importance of entrepreneurship and enterprise. as an individual, i understand the importance of being able to choose. and as a woman, i understand the importance of equal opportunity, because it's equal opportunity, not equal outcomes, that should be the self-evident principle even when it comes to business and entrepreneurship. but that is not the case here in the european parliament. here, through quotas, gender mainstreaming, targeted resources, gender perspectives and laws, they want to push for equal outcomes in all areas. what we should do instead is to invest in what benefits us all and business in general, namely education, reduced bureaucracy, access to venture capital and low taxes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. have any of you liberals and socialists heard of the easter riots in sweden? nearly 200 police officers were injured in what may have been the most violent riot in swedish history. we heard the battle cry "allahu akbar". we saw pure hatred of the majority society. so did christians in spain and france who were attacked for practicing their faith in areas with a high immigrant population. sweden and western europe are being torn apart by mass migration. but you're scolding poland when they secure their border from illegal immigration from the middle east. you're constantly holding special debates in favour of more migration. but will you dare to accept our proposal for a debate on the deterioration of social cohesion in our countries? do you dare debate what you are doing with the future of our children and grandchildren when you give your solemn speeches on the right of asylum, without thinking for a second about tomorrow? do you dare to consider your responsibility for the easter riots in sweden?
mr president, i would like to thank you. freedom of speech is threatened today from many different directions. in sweden we have recently witnessed riots in which over 180 police officers were injured, police cars were set on fire and areas were vandalized. this is because the police are protecting an individual's legal right to criticize religion by burning his own koran. now voices are being raised from the political side to curtail this right. freedom of speech must give way to violence. but the great battle for free speech today is found online and on the major social platforms. they are the public square and meeting place of our time. the basic principle should be that what is legal to say offline should also be legal to say online. it is therefore extremely worrying that the eu is now going in the opposite direction and wants to see more censorship. even things that are legal, you want to be able to pick them up. it's a dangerous step in the wrong direction. without freedom of speech, we are not free, and without freedom of speech, we have no democracy.
madam president, i really welcome a thorough debate on the future of europe. after the united kingdom finalised its divorce with the eu, this should have sparked some thought on our account on why they left and how we can improve without them. but not unlike some humans that have been left by a long—time partner, we have decided to take on a very destructive path instead. instead of trying to see what we could have done better in the relationship and do better in the future, we decided to do more of the empty-headed things that were the reason for the breakup to begin with and to blame everything on the other part. the so—called conclusions from the conference of the future of europe is a clear example on how poor self—perceptions we have. now we’re asking for more influence over issues where we’ve shown poor judgment before. when i meet citizens and ask them how eu could improve, they don’t mention transnational lists or that they wish for less national influence over the welfare systems. they focus on the aspects that made us an attractive partner to begin with, such as the single market, which is now being jeopardised by these new ambitions in light of the social pillar. the conclusions of this conference do not shed much light on how we can be better prepared for the challenges of tomorrow and become an attractive partner again. but rather, it seems to be a self-serving document for the interests of federalists.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the risk of organised crime and terrorism is to divide our societies. it's taking the lives of our children and young people. it hurts my heart and fills me with anger every time i read about a young person being murdered or women being trafficked. we must therefore do everything we can to crack down on serious crime. 70% of the world's major organized crime groups are active in more than three countries. when crime sees no national boundaries, policy must ensure that we fight it together. anything else would be naive. cooperation is the key. however, in fighting crime we must ensure that we do not risk undermining our fundamental freedoms and rights and breaching the rule of law. it is absolutely crucial that we have safeguards in place to prevent abuse and protect the integrity of innocent people. i welcome this proposal to strengthen europol's mandate, but i am disappointed, i must say, precisely because of the lack of sufficiently strong safeguards. the collection of large amounts of personal data also creates a high risk of misuse. i would also have liked stronger protection to ensure that the new mandate does not risk exposing people to racism and discrimination, which is already happening today. the fight against serious crime must be fought and must be fought with all our might. but at the same time i am fully convinced that we could have done so with an even better proposal with even stronger safeguards.
mr president, i would like to thank you. rarely has there been so much talk about democracy and popular rule and at the same time so much done to reduce it. the shift of power from the citizens to brussels is constant and it is now proposed that in the elections to the european parliament there should be a special list of 28 independent candidates for which the citizens can vote. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments proposed by the committee on budgets. if the proposal is implemented, the list will in practice be filled by eu-thinking federalists, elitists with no feeling for and no affinity with the individual member states. members without responsibility. how would they protect the interests of sweden and swedish citizens? no, not at all. as a swedish democrat, i have of course voted against this de-democratization.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. what do we really get for eu money, apart from more officials and more bureaucracy? do we get better quality? are we adding more value to the citizens? in the private sector, where i come from, shareholders don't agree to constantly throwing more money at something that doesn't pay off. in a competitive market, customers do not pay for poor products and services. but this is not a business, this is a good idea that has become an expensive administrative colossus. the european authorities today have growing powers and are made up of tens of thousands of officials, and it is our task as parliament to scrutinise them. despite all the flashing warning lights about inefficiency and waste, parliament's main criticism is that the gender balance is not sufficiently even. so to answer my opening question: more gender balance - that's what we get for the money if parliament gets to decide.
mr president, i would like to thank you. pegasus technology was developed to help governments fight terrorism and prevent crime, but the government of hungary has spied on its journalists, the government of poland has spied on opposition politicians, and now this list has even grown, with countries like luxembourg and spain and the belgian police. i am very pleased that our own liberal group renew has been the one to initiate the work of creating a committee of inquiry into the use of this technology, with sophie in 't veld as its champion. but i would urge you all now, when you go back to your home countries, to demand answers from your governments and see which governments have acquired this technology. i myself wrote a letter to the swedish minister for justice, morgan johansson, asking whether sweden had acquired this technology and whether it had used it. i would urge you to do the same.
mr president, i would like to thank you. despite the remarkable technological advances we have seen in recent decades, which have led to development in our union, there are a number of risks and dangers that risk undermining our fundamental freedoms and rights. innovation and invention are being used by some people right now to restrict our freedom, our democracy. amnesty international has revealed that the israeli spyware pegasus has been used to hack up to 50,000 mobile phones worldwide. it has been revealed that 65 people from catalonia, the french president emmanuel macron, the spanish prime minister pedro sanchez, colleagues in our parliament, journalists and ngos, have been exposed to the spy program. pegasus has become a toy. every authoritarian person wants a weapon against mr activists all over the world. the commission must give this matter immediate priority so that we can know the extent to which the spy programme has been used, against whom, how many and by whom. we must not shift the responsibility to the member states in an important matter such as this, where there is also the risk that states themselves have used the programme against innocent people, as in hungary and poland. at a time when our common security is at stake, we must fight against all authoritarian tendencies and all tendencies to oppression.
mr president, erdoğan is currently using putin’s barbarian war in ukraine as a smokescreen to silence turkish critical human rights activists and the opposition – and even invading other countries. whilst the world is looking in a different direction, erdoğan sentenced the human rights activist osman kavala to life in prison, despite repeated calls from the eu and the council of europe for his immediate release. regretfully, it does not stop there. opposition leaders such as selahattin demirtaş and aysel tuğluk remain in prison as well on highly doubtful grounds. by silencing, jailing and censoring criticism against his own regime, erdoğan is making it very clear to the world that he does not intend to respect fundamental european values. instead, he has repeatedly shown a leadership style that resembles that of putin. as swedish, with kurdish roots from the turkish parts, i sadly know too well the consequences of his dictatorship. enough is enough. we can’t continue acting as ‘business as usual’ with him. let us all stand up against his authoritarianism through voting in favour of the resolution tomorrow.
author. – madam president, colleagues, i’d like to thank you for the constructive negotiations yesterday. the ancient military strategist sun tzu wrote, ‘if ignorant both of your enemy and of yourself, you’re certain in every battle to be in peril.’ let us get to know the nature of china’s one-party communist state that president ursula von der leyen labelled a ‘competitor’ and a ‘rival’. it has sanctioned systemic forced organ harvesting from non-consenting prisoners. the beneficiaries include organ tourists from other asian countries, as well as muslims from the gulf, who prefer halal organs taken from the weaker. encourage all and everyone to protect themself from ignorance by reading the report on organ harvesting by the china tribunal. i’m often asked if the eu will remove the sanctions on china. the very thought is reprehensible. the west’s relationship with red china has already reached its limit. decoupling is the only way forward. the chinese communist party is an uncooperative, unfriendly human rights offender, and its influence in the international sphere should be countered by a reinvigorated west.
author. – madam president, thank you very much. i also want to start off with thanking my colleagues for a very productive negotiation, especially the rapporteur. ‘we continue to need your support.’ this was what the cambodian opposition leader, sam rainsy, told me when we met recently to discuss the enormous crackdowns on democracy in cambodia. mr rainsy has been sentenced in his absence to 25 years in jail. this is one of the many examples of how opposition leaders are systematically targeted by hun sen’s government. only in march 2022, 19 opposition members were convicted and sentenced to up to ten years in jail. the situation for democracy in cambodia is deteriorating fast and the democratic forces in the country continue to need our support. on 5 june this year, cambodia will be holding communal elections. the communal elections will also be decisive for what to expect at next year’s national elections. it is unacceptable that over 100 candidates from the opposition candlelight party have been removed from the list by cambodia’s national election committee to prevent them from running in the local elections. what is happening right now is a repeat of the national elections of 2008: the crackdown on the opposition through jailing them and with the aim of closing down the candlelight party, as they did with the cambodia national rescue party and their members. the eu and the eeas must closely monitor the situation and put pressure on the cambodian government to ensure free and fair elections, and the government must immediately release all political prisoners. it is enough; we can’t just stand aside and watch while political opposition, trade unionists and many others are killed at the hands of the hun sen regime.
author. – madam president, the crackdown on democracy in cambodia is not news to us in this house or in our union. for years, members of the cambodian opposition have been – if not their parties dissolved – prosecuted, imprisoned and even killed. the prisons of cambodia are overcrowded with activists, with trade unionists, with political oppositions, with journalists, with land rights activists, with human rights activists, and their one and only demand is a free and democratic society in cambodia. every day, leaders like mu sochua, sam rainsy, kem sokha and many others are still fighting the good fight. we have some brave cambodians here today in our parliament, and allow me, please, madam president, to welcome them and let us today give them a strong message of support and let this message of support reach the prime minister in cambodia – hun sen and his regime – that we are watching very closely and we stand ready to act with all our tools available, sanctions included, if the upcoming local elections in cambodia will not be free, fair and transparent.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the situation in cambodia is dark, but it could have been different. it could have been a democracy with bright prospects and an economy built on trade and growth. since the beginning of the 21st century, cambodia has had a preferential trade agreement with the eu under the 'everything but arms' programme, targeted at some of the world's poorest countries, to facilitate trade and cooperation and to support sustainable development. but the cambodian regime has chosen a different path and cooperation has been partially terminated. the government's brutal attacks on political opposition and its iron grip on citizens, journalists and activists is a tragic development. the regime has long since crossed the line. it is time for the eu to end all of it the oppressors of cambodia. trade easing must go, sanctions must come in, and our wholehearted support for all freedom fighters must continue.
mr president, my friends in burkina faso recently saw their democratically elected president, roch marc christian kaboré, toppled in a military coup – one example of the many recent coups. the urgent security situation needs to be addressed with full power because the people are suffering, killed, and young people are being deprived of their future. lack of economic development and opportunities makes it easy for terrorist organisations to recruit and radicalise the young unemployed. where possible, we must reach out to governments in the region to intensify our support for economic and democratic development and to combat terrorist organisations and military juntas through pulling the rug from under their feet. terrorist organisations, including boko haram and al—qaeda, have committed horrendous crimes against the population of the region, at the same time as military units have deprived the people of their freedom. in our struggle in defence of the people falling victims of the horrific situation in western and sahelian africa, it is of the utmost importance that un security council resolutions 2250 and 1325 on including youth and women in peace and security is implemented, and that we step up our efforts to reach the un agenda 2030.
mr president, putin has thrown the world and europe back to a time we had hoped never to experience again. a crisis of such dignity shows our true colours – if we are on the right side of history or choose the path of destruction. when i visited the republic of moldova last month with a delegation from parliament’s subcommittee on security and defence, it became very clear to me the enormous responsibility the government is taking. despite the many challenges in the country, they show their call of solidarity through receiving the largest number of ukrainian refugees per capita. we tend to very often in this parliament talk about european fundamental values. this is actually european fundamental values in practice, in contrast to our own member state, hungary, which asks ‘how high?’ when putin says ‘jump’. i therefore welcome the decision by the government of the republic of moldova to apply for eu membership. at the european union we must support the people and government of the country, to defend their sovereignty and security, to support democratic economic and social development, and assist them to ensure they one day can also join us here in this parliament.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner johansson, thank you for your strong commitment to women and girls in the war in ukraine families waking up to planes and bombs falling, fear for your own family, but also over the availability of food, lack of healthcare, a closed school and a destroyed playground. but ukrainian women and girls are worried about more than that. they fear the russian soldiers who commit abhorrent sexual abuse, who rape, who harass. and they worry about limited access to contraception, maternity care, safe births, and abortion. women are afraid, afraid that their children will go off and end up in the hands of human traffickers or that they themselves will be tricked into the wrong car at the border and then forced to sell their bodies. because it's true, women and children are more vulnerable in violence and war and conflict, and violence and abuse in conflict is a war crime. these crimes must be investigated and the perpetrators brought to justice. sexual violence in war and conflict, trafficking in human beings and restrictions on sexual and reproductive rights can be prevented, but both political courage and active action are needed. it is above all about the need to put an end to men's violence against women. what's wrong with these men? it's about the right of every human being to control their own body, about women and men having equal power to shape society and their own lives. we say that in the speeches, but now it is a matter of making it a reality in their own lives, of a europe that is truly standing up and being equal. we social democrats will continue to demand that women and children who are victims of war be protected. and we will continue our work for an equal europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the images and testimonies from butya, mariupol, and other cities in ukraine have shocked the whole world. the brutality of the russian troops, with their executions and rapes of civilians, women and children, is inhuman. putin, his closest men and the russian soldiers responsible for this must be tried in the international criminal court. they must never, ever escape. the millions of ukrainian women who have now fled to the eu and survived sexual violence must have all our help, but they should not have to face human traffickers at the eu's external border who want to exploit them for trafficking or be denied abortion pills in poland. i have an appeal to all eu countries and to the european commissioner ylva johansson: now, ensure that these criminal networks at the eu border to exploit ukrainian women and children for trafficking are identified, brought to justice and stopped from operating at the eu's external border. i also have an appeal to the eu countries to offer safe abortion with contraceptives and obstetric and abortion care to these rape victims from ukraine. we can never tolerate rape being used as a weapon of war. history is being made and europe must have zero tolerance for these types of crimes and give all the support we can to the ukrainian people and to the women who have been hit the hardest.
madam president, i would like to thank you. on april 8, i visited ukraine. as dusk fell on butja, we stood around the open mass grave and talked to one of the caregivers. he described in detail how people were executed, tortured, had their eyes burned out by cigarettes, and were raped. the russian military's use of rape as a weapon is a fact. it's just as true that the hell that was going on in butja right now as we're sitting here is happening elsewhere in ukraine, except the russians have gotten better at sweeping away the trail and the evidence. the eu must now do everything it can to stop putin and give ukraine the support and the weapons it is asking for. victims of sexual violence have the right to protection, support and care, including abortion, throughout the eu. including poland. rape in war is a war crime and a crime against humanity. we need a special tribunal, and we will not surrender until all those responsible have been convicted. the world knows who you are.
madam president, i want to start by thanking commissioner johansson for her leadership in defence of women and girls in ukraine through the work presented at the beginning of this debate. women’s and girls’ bodies have become a battlefield again in a war conducted by a man – putin – again. with all the modern progresses worldwide, there is one crime we never have been able to consign to the dustbin of history: machismo. rigorous investigation of the war crimes by russian soldiers against women and children must be conducted to ensure justice for the survivors and end of impunity for the perpetrators. we know that survivors of sexual violence and trafficking are fleeing to countries in our own union to seek shelter. i am, however, deeply concerned that some survivors are welcomed by restrictive anti—abortion laws, as in poland. we know that criminalising abortion does not stop abortion, it just makes abortion less safe. therefore, i want to emphasise that access to safe abortion services is a human right and must be respected by all our member states. these human rights must be ensured for those women fleeing the war in ukraine. colleagues, let’s beat dictators, not women.
madam president, i do have a point of order. as we are now to adopt this part-session’s urgency resolutions, i would like to update this house on a case we have discussed many times before. media now report that the swedish-iranian national, ahmad reza jalali, who is sentenced to death in iran, will be executed by 21 may. so i would like to remind the president and my colleagues that we have, on several occasions, adopted resolutions here calling for dr jalali’s pardon and immediate release. therefore, i expect this house now to do everything in our might to save dr jalali.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, never in history have walls done anything other than separate. never in history have walls done anything other than discriminate. the polish government managed to kill two birds with one stone when building yet another wall that fits best in a medieval society but has no place in our modern eu. firstly, by environmental degradation through the construction of a wall on the polish-belarusian border running through protected areas, including one of europe’s last primeval forests, which is causing a severe environmental impact on local wildlife. secondly, by violating human rights and international law through the inhuman treatment of migrants at the border. i welcome the important support the government is showing to the ukrainian refugees, but that doesn’t give the national conservative government of poland the right to discriminate others and totally disregard the common responsibility we have taken in the eu for our environment and climate. it must be costly for a member state to violate human rights and cause environmental degradation in our union. those who do not respect our core values and our joint decision should not face impunity. there must be consequences, and the wall must be torn down.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i hope that we can agree that the latest dark months have taught us that there is never a time for silence when people are suffering. we need to end impunity regardless of where violence and violations of human rights and international law take place. therefore, i also would like to propose a similar topic, but the topic would rather be ‘on the killing of palestinian journalist shireen abu aqla and the violent incident at her funeral’, with one round of speakers, after the debate on moldova. i think it is important to show that we stand with journalists all around the world.
mr president, colleagues, at the same time as we see backlash on our fundamental rights in some of our own member states, we see progress on our european values in countries aspiring for eu membership. moldova has in recent years taken important steps towards more democracy and respect for the rule of law, even though a lot remains to be done and needs to be intensified as regards judiciary reform and the end of corruption. moldova has also taken a big responsibility for people in need, being the country receiving most ukrainian refugees per capita and showing deep solidarity. as hard as we must be towards our member states that take negative steps backwards, we need to salute those wanting to join our union that take positive steps forward. we need to continue supporting the moldovan people that has clearly shown that they want to be a part of our union. my message to all our friends in moldova is: we stand by you, we support you and we hope to see you represented here in this parliament soon.
for the verts/ale group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. you have succeeded in rallying parliament behind the important and great thing that we must not accept that the situation of the rule of law in the eu continues to be eroded. instead, you and we are asking for more to be done, for the commission to do more. it is with regret that we can say that behind the two countries which are the most outspoken in their rejection of the rule of law are the majority of other member states with similar tendencies. countries that are gradually falling into the shadows of poland and hungary are restricting the freedoms we know are essential for strong and sustainable democracies: media freedom, minority rights and civil society opportunities. we must, out of respect for the people who elected us and out of respect for the institutions to which we are responsible, demand that the commission take a hard line against all member states that violate the principles of the rule of law.
mr president, i also want to thank the rapporteur for this very comprehensive and important report. the eu enlargement process is a matter of the future of eu and trust in our union. we must therefore ensure a clear pathway for those countries aiming to join our union. when progress is made, appreciation must be shown. albania is one of those countries that have shown most progress on their commitment to european integration and democratic transformation, and have clearly shown alignment with the eu foreign policy – not least when it comes to joint actions with the eu member states after the horrific russian invasion of ukraine. it is time to advance on albania’s accession process. one way of showing the country it is on the right path is by opening the accession negotiations with that country, and to schedule the first intergovernmental conference. with this said, the albanian political parties must overcome political disputes to strengthen democracy and the economy further. every stone must also be turned to fight organised crime and corruption. but it is clear that the albanian government and citizens see the european union as their home. it is therefore time for us to open up the doors!
mr president, i would like to thank you. those who have tortured, injured and killed civilians in ukraine must be brought to justice and severely punished. sexual violence and rape are crimes that have been committed and are still being committed in ukraine. it is used, as we know, to threaten, to humiliate, to humiliate, to hurt, and we know that girls and women are the main victims. at the same time, we know that sexual violence and rape are war crimes which rarely lead to legal consequences and punishment in practice. we have to change this. we must ensure that the words we now form a majority behind also become action.
mr president, putin expected a swift victory – against all odds ukraine turned the tide. with almost 12 000 russian war crimes reported, one wonders what is emmanuel macron’s and olaf scholz’s top concern? holding war criminals to account? no. both are desperately trying to get back to business as usual – buying gas, selling arms. both want to help putin save face by pressuring ukraine to cede parts of their territory. would a french president consider ceding the french west indies to putin and his cronies to dock their yachts? would the german chancellor gift a bundesland to the russians? the french and the germans would never accept that, so why should ukrainians? dear social democrats of germany, dear liberals of france, i will be frank, your condemnation of war crimes means nothing unless you change your government’s policy of rewarding the kremlin with territorial gains from these very war crimes. this is an unjust war. it must end in a just peace. ukraine must win.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this proposal to introduce a minimum tax of 15% on companies should come from the member states and not from brussels. because the eu is not a state, nor is it sovereign, and it should have no power in tax matters. what do you think will happen when member states realise that this agreement reduces their competitiveness? or that the united states, for example, will not implement this directive? we risk a dramatic decline in european competitiveness. the member states are again being left out of the loop. it is no longer an agreement between states, but a centralised eu tax directive. an independent state can therefore no longer decide on its own tax. in sweden we are not even able to decide on such a simple matter as vat on our fuel prices. we simply cannot control our own energy mix without the help of the eu. step by step, power is being irrevocably transferred to brussels, when we should be relying on democracy and returning it to the people.
madam president, i want to start with thanking the turkey rapporteur, nacho sánchez amor, for the good work. dialogue is important, but it must always be based on respect for international law and progress of democracy to ensure a cohesive world and respect for human rights. as the rapporteur clearly stated and rightly stated, we see enormous regression of democracy in turkey. in the struggle for international law and democracy must also lie the battle against disinformation. i am therefore worried when, as a female legislator in this european parliament, together with other swedish—kurdish female politicians in my country needing to face disinformation and baseless allegations by far—right turkish media with ridiculous claims that i have been a part of an armed struggle in turkey and been sent to this parliament by pkk. these lies are unacceptable and are a direct attack on our european democracy. the even more ridiculous thing is that it is being echoed by swedish far—right media as well. olof palme once said, ‘for us, democracy is a question of human dignity, and human dignity is political freedom’. putting those words in the context of today, the spread of disinformation by far—right turkish media are attacks on european democracy... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, so we have a report on the climate change and defence roadmap. a report that calls on the eu to support states in developing their capabilities to tackle environmental crime, further enhance operational effectiveness by reducing the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of military missions and operations and embark on a path towards climate neutrality by 2050 and to mainstream, of course, climate and environmental issues into the ordinary military training system at tactical and strategic levels. colleagues, while we are outfitting our battleships with sails, and covering our tanks with solar panels, and replacing our rifles with green lasers powered by pixie dust – woke beams of light – we should ask ourselves, will this deter russia from future aggression?
madam president, i would like to thank you. yes, there is nothing more permanent than a temporary eu grant. the trade union has become a subsidy union, and as new crises arise, new subsidies and now debts are created for swedish taxpayers. while many swedes are crushed by skyrocketing gasoline prices and electricity bills, and while small entrepreneurs, farmers and ranchers go bankrupt, their tax money goes to countries that have learned to live on eu subsidies instead of reforming themselves. for example, trevi nano, a small picturesque village in italy with 142 inhabitants, now receives, like 20 other picturesque villages, 200 million crowns in coronavirus aid: 1.4 million per inhabitant. what a jackpot! how is that even possible, you may ask? it is, thanks to magdalena andersson and her social democratic government, which, without blinking, has repeatedly said yes to unconditional contributions of various kinds, in solidarity, not with the swedish people but with countries which refuse to reform.
madam president, this house constantly debates the rights of migrants, the climate crisis and woke gender issues. this week, you even consider yourselves qualified to pontificate on what level of policy decisions should be taken in the united states. meanwhile, the same majority that refuses to recognise most asylum seekers or economic migrants keeps refusing debates on the consequences of mass migration on societal cohesion, as was the case this week. you shy away from any responsibility for segregation, crime, riots and increased pressure on our welfare systems. in fact, you are no better than our swedish minister of justice morgan johansson whose unmatched responsibility aversion caused even moderates to nickname him a ‘lying rascal’. he could and he should be deposed by the swedish parliament tomorrow. in his spirit, you made sure there is no debate following the quran riots in sweden. but let me remind you that you cannot escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, colleagues, what kind of a world we want to leave behind for the future generation through our actions or inactions says a lot about what kind of humanity that exists today. the carbon border adjustment mechanism is one of the most important tools for us in the eu to reduce gas emissions in non-eu countries. the one—billion—dollar question is how to spend the estimated eur 1 billion per year in cbam revenues 2026 to 2030. we can decide to continue as business as usual through adding it to the next generation eu loans, or we can try to be revolutionary through investing it in the next generation eu and global citizen through new climate protection measures in developing countries. the reinvestment of revenues in climate resilience would set a precedent for the future cbam systems. it is in the interest of our planet, vulnerable communities and the eu that revenues from such systems are used for climate actions rather than for continued public expenditures reductions. it is in the interest of us all. we need a just transition guided by solidarity that sees beyond national borders because we are not isolated islands.
madam president, when witnessing the climate debate, it sometimes feels a little bit like an auction. the highest bidder is regarded as the winner. but i believe that there are actors bidding without actually caring if they can cover the costs. as negotiator of the ets, i have seen this behaviour as well, with the greens wanting to remove protection from carbon leakage as early as possible, not taking into account all the pathways looks like. and you can’t just tap your finger and get new carbon—free industry in place over a day. it has to be approved, constructed and for some sectors we still need innovation to get where we want. we can’t control this by our whims because we are politicians, not magicians. our industries in europe are on board with the green deal. we should be proud of how they invest and innovate to show that we can combine competitiveness with the green deal. we need to lead them along this path, to reward the best performers, to incentivise those lagging behind, while protecting them from unfair competition from china and india. the outcome from the environment committee, unfortunately, does not do that. it’s just going to hurt european competitiveness, threaten our jobs and risk increased emissions outside of europe. i therefore urge members to support the outcome on this from the industry committee instead.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013). i'm not going to let you do this. you and the centre party's policies are making the swedes poorer and poorer. we're seeing skyrocketing electricity and energy prices, an inflation we haven't seen in many, many years. and yet you just keep going. now you also want the swedes to pay for other countries' skyrocketing energy and electricity prices through the social fund. i wonder, is there any limit to your generosity with swedish tax dollars and your naive climate dreams?
madam president, the great political project of the european union today, and for the years to come, is called the green deal. a great deal to transform our destructive relationship with the environment and natural resources and curb climate change. this is a big transformation that requires the effort of everyone and offsets like the social climate fund so that no one is left behind. it's an unstoppable transformation, you know? the scientific evidence for the climate crisis and the examples we see every day are staggering. in this situation, it would be a grave mistake to lower the ambition of the objective 55 package. we cannot give ourselves more time because we do not have this time. the current context of economic uncertainty cannot be an excuse for continuing to delay our commitment to the next generations to the point of utter irresponsibility. a just green transformation, based on innovation and technology, is not only the only way to tackle the climate and energy crisis, but also an opportunity to modernise and strengthen our economies. we have to live in the moment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner timmermans, in order to achieve concrete environmental objectives, it is essential to create the conditions for important sectors of european industry, which are very exposed to international competition, to remain competitive throughout the transition phase and thus be able to make the necessary investments, avoiding that their production is replaced by production outside the eu, which does not meet our environmental and social standards at all. pollution does not stop at borders. cbam and ets will have a significant impact on industry and citizens. we have been working on these two dossiers in an unjustifiable hurry, without taking the slightest account of the changed economic, geopolitical and energy conditions, which are not even remotely comparable to those existing when the european commission drew up the proposals. the proposals that parliament has so far only succeeded in making worse, by competing for the most media-friendly climate objective, by following a logic completely detached from reality, by protecting only certain special interests at the expense of the real interests of the vast majority of our citizens and our businesses. the ideological slogan of saving the world risks irreparably damaging the competitiveness of key sectors of european industry without any overall environmental benefits. i have not met a single entrepreneur who has not shown himself to be more than supportive of environmental protection. our companies need to be supported in the transition, not blamed and punished, bound to achieve totally unrealistic goals and burdened with increasing costs. where do you think these increases will fall if not on the weaker bands? we've already been hit hard by the pandemic. the war in ukraine is having devastating effects on countless human and economic levels. let's carefully reassess the entire climate legislative package before we do irreparable damage to our society without... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, commissioner timmermans and minister zacharopoulou – congratulations minister, and welcome back to the european parliament. europa måste göra mer för att sänka utsläppen och för att nå våra klimatmål. europa måste också göra mer för att öka tillväxten och stärka vår konkurrenskraft. det är utifrån den utgångspunkten som vi måste landa i en lagstiftning som gör att europa ställer om och inte stänger ned. jag har i industriutskottet arbetat med cbam, ett verktyg som i grunden är en bra idé. det ska inte vara möjligt att med smutsigare alternativ konkurrera ut europeiska klimatsmarta varor. men vi måste veta att lagstiftningen fungerar och att vi gör detta på rätt sätt. moderaterna, ppe-gruppen och industriutskottet har därför lagt fram förslag som innebär att vi ger industrin möjlighet att göra investeringar och ställa om, och för att säkerställa att cbam fungerar innan vi avskaffar den fria tilldelningen. jag ber er kollegor i denna kammare att stödja detta. detta beskrivs av vissa som att ha lägre ambitioner, men det är helt fel. en europeisk industri som får rätt förutsättningar för att ställa om och som kan bli en föregångare globalt, det är vad klimatet och europa behöver.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! yes, for almost three years, i have stood here warning of the consequences of a downright unrealistic and naive climate policy. i have warned that the targets and the planned economy methods would not lead to substantial emission reductions, but instead to skyrocketing electricity and energy prices, major geopolitical risks, power shortages, waste of taxpayers' money and declining competitiveness of industry. when many citizens are really starting to feel the negative consequences, then, instead of thinking about it and doing the right thing, you want to compensate them with additional emergency money. this time a social climate fund. the bad policy should not be changed, but its bad consequences should be temporarily mitigated with even more swedish tax dollars. it's short-sighted, it's naive and it's completely irresponsible. that's got to be enough.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 2.16 p.m.)
the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. are there any comments ? the minutes of yesterday's meeting are approved.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on adjustment to the 55% target (part 2). - report by jessica polfjärd, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2018/842 on binding annual greenhouse gas emission reductions by member states from 2021 to 2030 as part of their contribution to climate action to meet the commitments under the paris agreement (com (2021) 0555 - c9-0321/2021 - 2021/0200 (cod)) (a9-0163/2022). - report by ville niinistö on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2018/841 as regards the scope, simplification of compliance rules, setting of member states' 2030 targets and commitments to collectively achieve climate neutrality by 2035 in the field of land use, forestry and agriculture, and regulation (eu) 2018/1999 as regards the improvement of monitoring, reporting, progress monitoring and review, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, of regulation (eu) 2018/841 [com (2021) 0404 - c4-0559/2021 - 2021/2021 (cod) 0169/1202) (agreement) ] as regards the proposal of the european parliament and of the council (eu) 2019/621 (agreement) on the enhancement of monitoring, reporting, progress monitoring and review, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, of regulation (eu) 2018/1999 concerning the classification of vehicles with regard to the reduction of emissions from light commercial vehicles and the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the reduction of emissions from light commercial vehicles and the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles of the first generation of the first generation of vehicles of the first generation of the first generation of the first-
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i shan’t repeat what i have already said this morning, but the one thing i need to say again is that we need all these proposals if we stick to a legal obligation to be climate neutral by 2050. that’s why this package needs to be complete, consistent and especially socially fair. this includes stronger co2 standards for cars; to reach climate neutrality by 2050, nearly all cars on europe’s roads need to be zero-emission by then. if you look at the average lifetime of cars, 2035 is a good date for when all new car sales must be zero-emission. it is consistent, especially if this parliament wants to dress down emissions trading for fuels and road transport, it must deliver car standards that bring affordable zero-emission mobility to citizens. our proposal is technology-neutral and setting targets for all. what it doesn’t do is moving goalposts in mid-race so that winning technologies are handicapped and change doesn’t happen. of course, many get worked up over this, so i just want to specifically address those issues that have been brought up also this morning, where there are doubts. those who expressed doubts always use the argument of realism, pragmatism to get us to change what we have proposed. so let me also look at this from an angle of realism and pragmatism. most carmakers have already embraced 2035. almost all of them. many want to go further and only sell electric cars by 2030 or even 2028. our proposal would cement this trend for all carmakers with extra ambition in preceding years. we must give industry a clear signal and allow them to plan investments going forward. that’s what we are asking. be consistent, be clear, and stick to the plan. and, by the way, i’m deeply convinced that if we don’t lead on this, the chinese and the americans will, and they’re moving extremely fast in this area. no place on earth are more electric cars sold than in china these days. so, you know, we need to keep up. we have so much to offer. our car industry is the best in the world by a large margin, but it needs to be zero-emissions. our consumers want this as well. whatever study you look at and whether you include car production or not, electric cars are the affordable and sustainable solution. consumer organisations want these cars. our impact analysis backs them up. electric cars are now already cheaper to run because of the fuel savings, especially for low-income households. with revised co2 performance standards, they will also become cheaper to buy. so in that sense, getting to cheaper electric cars as soon as possible is the right thing to do for people who can’t afford very expensive mobility. of course, zero emission mobility should be a comfortable choice. that’s why we’ve made ambitious proposals to give governments matching responsibility to deliver the charging infrastructure that carmakers and drivers need. every carmaker i speak to says this ‘we can do this, if you deliver the charging infrastructure; some will be delivered commercially without problems, but in certain areas you will have to pitch in’. and i think that’s just fair and we need to do that. still, we see voices in parliament that don’t share our sense of urgency. they push, for example, for e-fuels in combustion engines. i want to say a few words about that. these fuels will never, ever be available in sufficient quantities. they will be more expensive at the petrol pump, far more expensive than driving an electric car. they will take six times the energy to produce compared to the battery in a car. even then, engines would still pollute the air that our citizens breathe. i’m deeply aware of the impact on jobs in components and fuels for combustion engines, but the answer isn’t to push solutions that are inconsistent with industry plans, inconsistent with consumers choices, inconsistent with repowereu goals to make the best use of energy and with the simple desire of citizens to breathe clean air. the answer is to make the transition responsibly also for workers in the supply chain. jobs will arise in electrification, software, chargers, batteries and even heat pumps with technology now used for car engines, but this won’t allow workers to transition magically. it is not something that just happens. that’s why we need a firm transition plan, a helping hand and funding so that whosever job is on the line can find a job elsewhere. we need everyone in europe to fill the jobs that will be coming, but they then also have to have the qualifications to be able to do the jobs. jan huitema’s report makes proposals for this. next year, the commission would need to follow up. we could even offer pilots to test strong solutions in real time, especially in those countries where the car industry is extra challenged to make the transition because the consumers in those countries have to catch up and also the infrastructure in those countries has to catch up. why not make that pilot projects and show that can also happen in countries that perhaps today many people don’t believe it can – because it can. turning briefly to lulucf and effort-sharing, i am pleased that this parliament is confirming the key architecture of our proposals. that’s a good basis for trilogues. i want to say one thing on lulucf. this parliament rightly puts more emphasis on carbon farming and the carbon removals that this generates, for example, by improving soil and re-wetting lands. the report adds new targets for wetlands and grasslands as carbon sinks. that’s a massive opportunity for farmers to be part of the solution to the climate and biodiversity crises. farmers suffer more than anybody else from these crises. by making farming sustainable, including via carbon farming, we’re not destroying farming, we’re saving farming. we need to work on this together. and i forgot, i think, this morning at the end of my contribution to answer a question by mr liese, and i want to do it now. we haven’t supported nuclear from innovation modernisation funds, and i can’t see how we could change this because of the cost involved and the state involvement in nuclear. our priorities are fully on future renewable solutions such as green, steel and hydrogen, and the limited means we have in the innovation and modernisation funds should be directed there and nowhere else.
i should now like to give the floor on behalf of the council to my colleague, until a few days ago, mrs zakharopoulou, and congratulate her on speaking to us now as a member of the french government and therefore of the french presidency.
president of the council. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr timmermans, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all welcome your very interesting speeches this morning, which amply demonstrate the political and historical importance of the legislative package on adjustment to objective 55 and its complexity. it is clear that we have collectively come a long way and that we will now need to seize the momentum to continue to make progress and to reach an agreement as soon as possible. i can assure you that the presidency is doing everything possible to reach agreement within the council and on the closure of the files before the end of the month. to this end we are working tirelessly to move forward work on all the dossiers in a coherent way, and this in all the relevant council formations, namely environment, energy, transport and economy. i would like to draw attention to a number of points which i consider particularly relevant, based on what i said this morning. first, the need for ambitious, effective reform that strengthens the role of the european union in defining the global rules for an ecological transition, but also a reform that leaves no one behind and protects the european citizen in an era of uncertainty and sharp increase in the cost of living. from what you have said, it is very clear that we need an outcome that is both ambitious and balanced in terms of the distribution of costs between economic sectors. as co-legislators, we face the enormous responsibility of passing a package of legislation that will transform the economies of the european union for decades to come. the transformation must be socially just and ensure that support and investment go to those who need it. this package and the social climate fund in particular will help us to reduce the eu's dependence on fossil fuels while allowing us to support business and individual investment in renewable energy and our efforts in energy efficiency. i am sure that our common vision of the overall objective will help us to find common ground. i thank you again, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention and your commitment.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. vice-president and commissioner timmermans! madam minister! a year ago we came together in this house to adopt the european climate act. it was a historic step in our joint effort to become the first climate-neutral continent. this case is very demanding on us. i would like to remind my colleagues once again that this is also a huge opportunity for change, for sustainable development and for new green jobs. that is why my group has fought so hard for a change that safeguards these very principles. we know that we can only succeed in the transition if we preserve european growth and the confidence of our citizens. this week is also historic in its own way. it is time to turn our goals into concrete action plans. the objectives of the climate law are set for the eu as a whole. it's an important first step. but just as i expect all sectors of the european economy to adapt to the new objectives, i also expect all member states to do their part. only then can we really make a difference. the responsibility-sharing regulation is one of the pillars of this work. with this law, we are setting binding targets for all eu member states and a set of rules for the majority of all emissions in europe. increasing the pace of our joint work in this area is absolutely necessary to achieve our own objectives, but also the objectives of the paris agreement. i would therefore like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups for the work and commitment that they and their officials have put in so that we can stand here today and have a good report on the table. we have had our differences, but we have also had a very good and constructive spirit to work in. what we have on the table now is a proposal that is ambitious. it is forward-looking and feasible. together we have agreed on a number of important principles. first, we are raising the level of ambition for the whole of europe. but just as important is the contribution of all eu member states to this work. no country can take a shortcut on someone else's ambitions. at the same time, we ensure that the new objectives are actually achieved by closing loopholes in the legislation. second, we are looking beyond 2030. for me, it has been crucial to link these objectives with the overall objective of climate neutrality, and we have now set out concrete steps for member states to take. thirdly, we have ensured that member states are able to formulate their objectives in the way that suits them best. all countries and all sectors must contribute to climate action. but the eu's role is to set clear frameworks, not to regulate in detail. we need a policy framework that raises the ambition of the whole of the eu while respecting the traditions and differences of the member states and creating the right conditions for the whole of society to change. last but not least, we have introduced stricter requirements for greater transparency, while requiring those member states which are falling short of their targets to explain why they are deviating and how they intend to remedy their shortcomings in the future. with this proposal, the european parliament has the opportunity to take a historic decision. for the first time ever, we can build a strong majority to get all eu member states to commit to actually reducing their emissions. either you're blind to the challenges we face, or you expect others to do more and do the work for you. both are wrong. for those who see the transition as a challenge, i want to show that it is also an opportunity. i see it with my own eyes every day, what is happening in my own country, sweden. in northern sweden, where fossil-free industries are taking shape and breathing life into old societies that developed in the wrong direction. we see it in forest communities where centuries of sustainable forestry meet new entrepreneurs and develop the bioeconomy. and in my own home town, västerås, where the next generation of batteries is being developed with the best expertise from around the world. never before has it been clearer that europe must reset, not shut down. i hope that you will all support me in entering into negotiations with the council of ministers with a clear mandate. now is the time to make our ambitions a reality.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we need to really step up the pace of climate change and raise our ambitions if we're going to even get close to the paris agreement. however, so many of my colleagues in this parliament are doing everything possible at the moment, when we are about to make climate legislation concrete, to quickly turn it into a swiss cheese full of holes, full of cracks so that not everyone will take responsibility. but everyone has to do it now. everyone has to be part of the transition, every country, every sector. for example, the swedish forestry sector. it does not help that swedish colleagues in the centre party and the moderates are trying to weaken the proposal put forward by the commission on these very issues. have you already forgotten that we are in a climate emergency? have you already forgotten that less than two years ago, when we voted on the climate bill in parliament, we actually wanted to see a higher level of ambition than 55%? but when we are voting on this now, we still have the opportunity to raise ambition, and i really hope that enough of us in this room will take that chance.
i'm the reporter. (the president's speech begins without a microphone) much of what we have heard today will be good for both sides in the negotiations ahead. i am glad that a large part of this parliament supports the principle that everyone must contribute. european climate policy must be grounded in reality, but it must also be marked by hope. we must never listen to those who do not want to do anything, but we must not give in to those who stand on the sidelines and just shout about higher, unattainable goals. the ambition we're voting on tomorrow is just the beginning. 2050 is our far-reaching time limit to become climate neutral. if we don't admit it, we might as well throw in the towel. however, it is not just a goal, it is something we must do and act on. it will not be easy, far from it, but to return to what i started this debate with, it is also a huge opportunity for lower emissions, for more and better jobs and for international competitiveness. i would like to return to the example i gave at the beginning, namely from my own country, sweden, where we built prosperity a hundred years ago. for economic growth, we had to rely on the mines and the forests, for example. these are still important industries that contribute to jobs and growth throughout sweden, but today with a lower footprint on the climate, and they are actively working to reduce emissions. one of the most important parts is that we recognize that the countries of europe are different. that is why we have also felt it is so important to give all countries the opportunity to largely shape their own emissions reduction efforts. but i also want to emphasize that it is important that we learn from each other. tomorrow's vote is a chance to make a historic decision. we can build a strong majority to get all eu member states to commit to a binding target of actually reducing their emissions.
madam president, i would like to thank you. are all eu citizens of equal value? if the answer is yes, then why do we allow millions of poles not to have the same rights, freedoms and opportunities as the rest of us? polish activists fighting for fundamental human rights are at risk of being accused, prosecuted and brought to justice because of the polish justice system, which even the european court of justice is calling for reform. those who pay the highest price for our inability to do the right thing are poles who fight for what the eu should be - free, equal, fair. it is a disgrace to the eu and in particular to the commission, which by approving the polish government's plans is paving the way for an authoritarian poland, a mini-russia in which the state oppresses its own citizens with our common tax money.
madam president, i have myself experienced war and have seen the brutal consequences of its indiscriminate violence against civilians, which has brought me to the eu. in european history there is and always will be a before and after of 24 february 2022. the after is the time when the eu must stand up to preserve peace and international security. never bow to the imperialist putin russia. the after is the time when the eu must step up its struggle in defence of the rule-based international order and the principle of multilateral cooperation. i therefore welcome the parliament’s new recommendations on the eu foreign security and defence policy, because in this new world order created by putin and his men, our main responsibility is to stick together. i am therefore ashamed of the orbán government in hungary that is acting disgracefully. the eu has an important global role to play. for that, we need a stronger strategic autonomy and we need to act with allies. i also would like to join the call of our finnish colleague for a swift approval of the swedish and finnish nato membership. and finally, for me, the eu is synonymous with peace. i was once forced to flee to the eu for its peace. we can and we must stand up for it globally.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, taoiseach martin, the swedish social democrats hoped that the amnesty from migrants in 2005 would give us pause. the opposite happened: pull factors increased. the following decade meant a migration wave we’ve never seen before. this year, one shooting a day, one bombing a week, and areas ruled by criminal gangs and clans caused bild zeitung to name my country the most dangerous country in europe. now, i understand that your government is pushing through a mass amnesty. for how many? no one seems to know. taoiseach, have you looked at migration prognosis for the future? ipsos tells us that 1.5 billion people would like to migrate if given the opportunity. the french government estimates that 35—40% of those would choose europe. that’s 500 million that would like to go to our continent if given the opportunity. the same as the whole eu population, taoiseach. africa’s population is set to grow from 1.4 billion today to 4 billion at the end of this century, and there aren’t enough jobs. taoiseach martin, do you think that mass amnesties for illegal migrants by eu member states is going to alleviate or worsen migration pressure on europe?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission and the council! more than a hundred days and the war in ukraine is still going on. the eu is more united than ever and now we must keep up the pressure on russia. the sixth sanctions package, which includes a ban on oil imports, is therefore of the utmost importance. although not all oil is covered by the moratorium, it is still an important step to reduce putin's ability to finance this illegal and brutal war in ukraine. now more than ever we need to continue the work of breaking our dependence on russian energy. the next step must also be to shut down the tap for russian gas in the pipelines. there is only one way out of high energy prices in our member states and that is to become energy self-sufficient together and to accelerate the energy transition. we have to get off fossil fuels now. and here i want to highlight bioenergy and biogas, which together with wind and solar energy are an important alternative. we've seen it in sweden. it's very successful. the biogas is completely renewable. waste from agriculture and the food industry is recycled into heat for our homes and fuel for our cars. finally, i also welcome the discussion in the council and the decisions on food security. russia's blocking of ukrainian agricultural exports is having devastating consequences, especially in poor countries. global food security must be a priority for the eu, and we need to do everything we can to be able to take responsibility for both the eu and global leadership in the short and long term.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, i would like to start by thanking the commission for adhering to parliament when we sent a strong signal, with the support of two thirds of the votes here in parliament, when it came to labour migration policy and the law report that i was rapporteur for. thank you for that. i do hope that we will also gather strong support and remain united on this matter of the talent partnership, because these are of utter importance to our work, to our union. firstly, because the talent partnership can be used to create legal pathways to the union for migrants who want to create better lives, who want to be part of our communities, who want to work – better, safe, legal pathways. secondly, they can be part of our solutions to face the challenges of the ageing population, where we have a decrease in our labour force, meaning also a decrease of our welfare state or also the build of our welfare state. thirdly, the talent partnership can improve the growth of our economies. as we speak, we are losing 2% every day of our productivity with the unfilled vacancies on the labour market. that’s why these talent partnerships are very, very important. but for them to be able to work and function, the first thing we need is good legislation, and we need to change the mind—set and narrative around migration, because now we are mixing everything. we need to know that not everyone wants to come to the eu. we are competing on a global scale over these talented, skilled people and we are losing in competitiveness. we are not as attractive as we used to be, or as we think. thirdly, i think that we also need to work on the circularity of migration, so we prevent the brain drain, and we ensure that people who come also return. one last thing i would like to say, mr president of the parliament, is that i am very tired, i am really sick and tired, of being addressed as ‘the different one’. this parliament contains non—ethnic europeans. i myself came as an unaccompanied minor when i was 15 years old from iraq to sweden, and i am so tired of this racist narrative. i hope that whenever it comes, you stop it, because it is not acceptable. i am a part of the eu as much as you are and there are even more people who can be that! (applause)
the commission has already done so. i thank you, mr rapporteur, for your courageous adherence to this dossier. finally, after years of debate, we are voting on our positions on the implementation of the core element of representative democracies, just in time to derive real political action from the recommendations of the conference on the future in which this was explicitly identified by citizens as a weak point in the functioning of the eu. i would like to add to the many correct and clear positions and aspects of our debate today and in the report: we do not want to be second-class citizens, that is to say, dependent on the other institutions. no, we are not asking for a right of pardon, but for equal rights - not for us, but in accordance with representative democracy for all citizens across the eu 27. this right to legislate on all matters of our social life in the eu must be enshrined in the treaties. you can't go under that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, how can we explain to our citizens that we, being the only institutional body democratically and directly elected by them, do not have the power of legislative initiative? unfortunately, it is difficult to explain, and over the years this anomaly has also helped to fuel anti-european sentiment. with the conference on the future of europe, citizens welcomed the opportunity to express their concerns and were clear about what they expected: more efficiency and more democratic participation. the conclusions of the conference highlighted the need for treaty amendment and, given the democratic expression of parliament, it is self-evident that the recognition of the legislative initiative is the first step towards giving the european union greater democratic legitimacy and a strong credibility among citizens. it is true that the future of europe is in the hands of the citizens, but it is to us, the european parliamentarians, that the task of representing them has been delegated, so that their demands and expectations can be translated into concrete solutions and measures.
mr president, we have no parliamentarians to deliver our message and take action. whether we do so in our local, regional or national parliaments. the same should apply to this parliament, the parliament of all europeans. but we are the only parliament without the right of initiative; we cannot put forward the laws that citizens expect from us, as we were told at the conference on the future of europe. the realities of citizens must be heard. we parliamentarians are in constant contact with the people in our towns and villages. we know what issues and challenges they want to address at european level. and citizens trusted parliament to take their challenges forward. only one person can look at the petitions we receive; 1573 petitions in one year alone, because citizens want this parliament to improve their lives. petitions are evidence of what we can achieve for european citizens if we have a fully functioning democracy. we are able, willing and eager to push forward legislative proposals that are ambitious and innovative. the commission and the council, when will they strengthen european democracy?
mr president, first of all, a big thank you to mr rangel for the wonderful job he has done. the conference on the future of europe is mentioned here again and again, and citizens naturally ask the european parliament to take the legislative initiative. is it on a whim? i'm not sure. it is because they do not live in a bubble; it is because they want quick solutions to real problems and they know that the european parliament is prepared and mature to be able to take part in that work which we cannot do now. simple as that. the right of legislative initiative is now almost exclusively reserved for the european commission. we can ask, but we're either heard or not heard. the european commission can ignore us completely and we are not the backbone of a lobby of influence for the european commission to decide whether or not to do so. i think we are mature, we are responsible to deal with many transnational problems and challenges. so, if there's anyone listening from the council - who we don't see here - we ask that you listen to us. the citizen has been very clear at the conference. he has asked us to have that right of direct initiative too. and they do it because of what i say: they don't live in a bubble. we have challenges of the times, complications in the future ahead of us; so, we have a unique opportunity to introduce change. it is time to convene a convention and to make the council see that 'it is not necessary' to revise the treaties to recognise this right as something positive and necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament, the only institution of the union directly elected by its citizens, does not have the general right of legislative initiative enjoyed by national parliaments. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. this institutional imbalance is particularly apparent in the area of freedom, security and justice, where the european council, when defining, in accordance with article 68 of the treaty on the functioning of the union, the strategies for legislative and operational programming, has a de facto right of initiative in all sensitive matters which directly affect the fundamental freedoms of european citizens. the right of legislative initiative, as requested by the conference on the future of europe, will also strengthen the union's action in preventing and countering any backsliding in respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law, thus enhancing the protection of european citizens.
mr president, the european parliament is the only institution directly elected and legitimized by the vote of the european architecture. it is a real parliament, but it is more than that: it is the only multinational parliament with legislative powers in the whole world. it is a legislative parliament, and it is a real parliament because it invests the commission in the person of its president with its vote, it controls that institution and can also overthrow it with its vote. it is therefore imperative that the european parliament - the institution which has grown the most in the history of the european union - should complete its process of maturation and growth with this direct legislative initiative. it is not true that he does not have it at all; he has it indirectly. it can order, mandate the commission to adopt legislative initiatives. but there are three ways to improve the current situation. the first is that the commission should undertake, whenever the european parliament adopts an own-initiative report, to respond and to take the initiative which the european parliament has asked it to take. the second is an institutional agreement, we call it an 'interinstitutional' agreement, which strengthens parliament's position and opinion in the special legislative procedures. but the third is the inevitable one: it is the reform under article 48 of the treaty on european union that completes this final maturation process of the european parliament with direct legislative initiative.
colleagues, at 17.00 we have the next voting session. i hope it is in your interest to finalise this debate before. that is the reason why i cannot accept the rest for catch-the-eye. so i will cancel catch-the-eye and i will give the floor to vice-president šefčovič.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i see that members are gathering for another voting session and i know that time is running out, so i will be indeed very short. first and foremost, i really would like to thank all of you for this very important debate. i think it gave very clear confirmation that there is a strong wish for parliament to have a more important role in the area that we discussed this afternoon, and that it clearly warrants the need for the commission and parliament to continue working even more together from an early stage when the initiatives are being prepared in the committees. i really would like to underscore that i very much appreciate your acknowledgement that this commission delivers on our political commitment to work with you and to deliver on the article 225 resolution, and that we are ready to further discuss how we can improve the practical aspects of our positive cooperation, an experience we had in this effort so far. i also would like to underline that i understand that you call for a more generalised direct right of initiative of the european parliament. i think that there was also a quite clear understanding from most of the intervening members of the parliament that such a broad right would require a treaty change, which of course merits a wider debate. so, to conclude, i would like to thank all the honourable members who intervened in this discussion and to underline once again that we are ready to continue our discussions on this matter.
rapporteur. – mr president, so to conclude our debate, i would like to say first that there is no point in the argument that we are trying to build a superstate. if you acknowledge – and all of you acknowledge because you vote in ecr and in id, you vote in every opportunity that you have – that we have legislative competence and legislative powers, then, of course, there is no reason not to have the right of initiative. either you start to retire from this chamber and do not vote, and then, of course, you are coherent, or if you do not do that, of course you should acknowledge the right of initiative. then let me say to the vice-president of the commission, i was very pleased with your intervention, but i would like to have a clear statement (which, by the way, your president, ms von der leyen, has made) that we are entitled to have the proper right of initiative. that was what i was expecting today because this was said by president von der leyen. there is no reason for a vice-president that is responsible for institutional relations not to say that here in a very clear and open manner. and finally, i would take this opportunity while i have here some presidents of groups to tell you that it is a shame that our parliament in such matters like electoral law, triggering article 48 and the right of initiative doesn’t schedule these debates as key debates, because the other institutions will say, you are debating, you are debating the right of initiative, but you give only a very, very short slot in the evening to debate this. and the same will happen tomorrow with the triggering of article 48. this doesn’t honour our chamber, and it’s the responsibility of the conference of presidents that we don’t have the institutional issues among the most important debates of our house.
i think the debate has shown very clearly that there is a large majority in this parliament in favour of a right of initiative. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 9 june 2022.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i'm the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you for your trust. i ask, pursuant to rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, that the matter be referred back to the committee responsible for interinstitutional negotiations.
rapporteur. – mr president, i’m very relieved and happy with the outcome. i think it’s a good compromise. and so i would like to request that the report is referred back to the committee for interinstitutional negotiations based on rule 59(4) of the rules of procedure.
rapporteur. – mr president, as i have communicated to the co-rapporteur nathalie loiseau, to the shadow rapporteurs and to the plenary services yesterday, i would like to propose an oral amendment to update the title of this recommendation. it shall be named ‘the eu's foreign security and defence policy after the russian war of aggression against ukraine’. colleagues, over the past weeks, we have used the term ‘war of aggression’ instead of ‘invasion’; therefore, i suggest to also change the title of this recommendation accordingly.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the global threats to the right to abortion possible abolition of the right to abortion in the us by the supreme court (2022/2665 ((rsp)). i would remind you that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. after you have inserted your voting card into the voting machine, you can then apply for spontaneous word messages and blue cards via your voting machine. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be dealt with from the central podium, with the exception of spontaneous speeches, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am delighted that this crucial debate is taking place in this house today. i would like to share with you, in the context of the french presidency of the council of the european union, some convictions to feed both our common reflections and our public action at the level of the continent. abortion, sexual and reproductive health and rights are extremely sensitive and complex issues around the world, including from a legal perspective. this plenary assembly has often debated this theme, including in the context of the european union's external action. as regards the europe of 27, primary law confirms that eu law does not in principle interfere with the constitutional and other national laws of eu member states on abortion. although the union has no competence in matters of abortion policy, there is no doubt that women's rights are fundamental human rights. there is no doubt that sexual and reproductive health rights are at the heart of gender equality and the fight for women's rights. there is no doubt that the denial of these rights constitutes a form of gender-based violence. yes, women's rights are inalienable. no, they're not sequential or hierarchical. as stated in article 21 of the treaty on european union, human rights are indivisible and universal. since we are discussing the regulation of abortion in the united states today, i would like to say a word about the global dimension. in march 2022, the world health organization recalled that an estimated 45% of all abortions performed worldwide are unsafe and that unsafe abortions were increasingly concentrated in developing countries and among vulnerable and marginalized groups. the council of the european union is therefore fully committed, in its external action, to respecting and protecting all the fundamental rights of women and girls. the european union and the member states are closely monitoring developments in this area. the european union recognises that women's fundamental rights include their right to be in full control of their sexuality and to make freely and responsibly decisions related to their sexuality, including sexual and reproductive health, without discrimination, coercion or violence. ladies and gentlemen, the european union must continue to stand united in support of women and girls in the united states and around the world in the face of the daily challenges they face. through their external action tools, the european union and its member states will continue to ensure compliance with relevant international agreements at bilateral and multilateral level. these efforts should be supported by joint actions by governments and relevant international organisations, within their respective mandates and taking into account national priorities, as well as civil society organisations. in his speech to this assembly on 19 january, the president of the french republic wished europe to consolidate its values and identity by inscribing the right to abortion in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. our union was never built on the status quo, nor will it progress without advancing women's rights, inside and outside its borders. finally, beyond the principles, we must provide practical and logistical support to all women who wish to exercise this fundamental right, particularly in countries on our continent where it may be threatened or restricted. the conflict in ukraine makes this reality even more urgent and tangible, as hundreds of displaced women face the danger of restricting their right to dispose of their bodies, a right that adds to the risks inherent in the conflict they are victims of. this is also the meaning of the simone veil pact, supported by president metsola from the moment of her election, which aims to make europe the most advanced continent for the promotion of equality between women and men, the flagship continent on the universal path to equal access to sexual and reproductive rights, as well as in the fight against violence, equality at work and in public life or in family life. let me conclude by congratulating you for regularly drawing attention to this important subject.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, madam minister, honourable members, we welcome this opportunity to discuss the global situation regarding abortion. in the us, the landmark 1973 roe versus wade ruling has guaranteed access to abortion for almost 50 years. if the supreme court overrules this right, it will be a profound retrogression of a well-established constitutional right. president biden said such a decision would be radical and marked a fundamental shift in us law and put other rights into question, namely women’s access to reproductive healthcare and control over their own lives and bodies. we fully share this concern and indeed the consequences would be radical not only for the us but globally. this would notably lead to an increase in unsafe abortions. according to the world health organization, around 45% of all abortions are unsafe, of which 97 take place in developing countries. unsafe abortion is a leading but preventable cause of maternal deaths and morbidities. the global trend over the past decades has been towards a repeal of abortion bans. in the past 25 years, over 60 countries around the world have liberalised their laws and policies on abortion. the eu remains committed to being a leader on sexual and reproductive health and rights, an essential part of realising human rights. our high ambition is clear in the eu gender action plan iii in external action 2021-2025 and reflected in the european consensus on development. concretely, the commission provides support to member states in implementing sustainable development goals pertaining to this area. at the global level, we support interventions at bilateral, regional and global levels. the eu partners, closely with the united nations population fund and civil society actors, work in this area, and in the un commission on the status of women, the eu has been a staunch supporter of sexual and reproductive health and rights. there is a continued need for engagement with other partner countries bilaterally, such as through human rights dialogue and in multilateral fora, as well as through our global programmatic funding.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. is it not absurd that we still in the 21st century have to fight for something as self-evident as the fundamental right of all women to control their own bodies? unfortunately, it has been shown that freedom, human rights and women's rights can never be taken for granted, not even today. in the united states, we now see powerful forces actively working to stop the right to abortion. and if they succeed, nearly 40 percent of american women will be affected if their nearest abortion clinic is forced to close. in our neighbouring country of poland, which has already banned abortion, women have died after being denied abortion treatment. the polish government now wants to go one step further and introduce mass registries of pregnancies. this is so sick. the right to abortion is a matter of freedom and is absolutely crucial to the ability of all women to shape their lives as they wish. this resolution is so important. it is a signal that in the eu we stand for freedom, for human rights, for women's rights, and that we have zero tolerance for those who try to undermine women's rights. the eu must say no. we must stand with women and have zero tolerance for those who wish to delegitimize women and their own choices in life. this is a matter of freedom and europe must take up the fight.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. first, we must be convinced that it is a fundamental right to decide when, where, how and whether to conceive. secondly, we must understand and act on the fact that the rights and opportunities for which generations of women before us have fought for decades are under threat. abortion resistance is growing. third, we know scientifically how to reduce the number of unintended pregnancies. it's done scientifically through early education and sex and cohabitation education. it is done through the generous availability of contraceptives and it is done through the right to legal abortions. the u.s. supreme court's decision to tear down the law that gave american women protection and the right to decide about their own bodies will have far-reaching consequences beyond america. it will also affect the eu. in poland, amazing, brave poles are fighting for women's right to decide about their own bodies. the fact that more women have died because doctors have not dared to give them the help they needed is unacceptable. we must act much more forcefully than we have done so far.
madam president, i would like to thank you. once again, conservative forces are trying to limit the right of girls and women to control their own bodies. once again, in yet another country, people's fundamental rights are being violated. thousands of women die each year as a result of unsafe abortions. millions of women are treated in emergency rooms. we know that banning abortion does not prevent abortions; it only leads to more unsafe and life-threatening abortions. restricting and banning the right to abortion has very serious consequences both for the individual and for society. we social democrats will never, ever accept that the fundamental rights of the people are violated. not in the united states, not in poland, not anywhere else in the world. i want control over my body. i want my daughters to be in control of their own bodies. never, never anything else. i know.
author. – madam president, the xinjiang police files is yet again confirming the heinous crimes committed by the chinese regime in xinjiang. and now i present to you the european parliament’s political response to the evidence that we have received. and the european parliament, for the first time, recognises that the chinese regime is committing crimes against humanity and the serious risk of genocide in xinjiang in the resolution that is to be adopted tomorrow. genocide. that is deliberate acts with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group. genocide, crimes against humanity, torture, forced abortions, political indoctrination, mass deportation. ‘never again’ has failed. the european parliament now demands the european union and its member states take all necessary steps in accordance with the un genocide convention to end these atrocities and ensure responsibility for the crimes committed, because we have promised ‘never again’.
madam president, colleagues, it has been almost 75 years since the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights, and we are witnessing serious human rights backlashes worldwide. the ruling chinese communist regime is one of the biggest abusers in the world. uyghurs have been suffering for long through persecution and detention in internment camps. one of the worst despicable acts in wars and used by oppressing regimes towards minorities is gender-based violence against women and girls. women and girls are being raped, forcibly married, tortured and killed. we receive horrendous reports of uyghur women and girls in the camps being subjected to systematic rape, forced sterilisation and separation from their children. i am glad for the urgency, but would have wanted to see stronger and specific calls on independent investigation into these unspeakable crimes of gender-based violence. almost 75 years after the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights, but yet still, there is a lot to do to ensure we stand up for the basic rights of women and girls globally.
for the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 march, georgia submitted its application for membership of the european union. over the past 20 years, the country has clearly demonstrated both its ability and its willingness to become closer to the european family. and we should welcome that. but now the leadership has taken a very wrong turn. because when journalists are threatened, prosecuted and imprisoned in a closely associated partner country, it is not only deeply unworthy, it is a serious wake-up call. candidating for the european union is a big responsibility. there is no doubt that georgia belongs in europe. it is equally clear that free speech is a cornerstone of european democracy for all those who want to be part of the eu, and the georgian government knows this very well.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu now wants to force electric cars onto the market, arguing that this would dramatically reduce carbon dioxide emissions. but either they are lying or they are ignoring the fact that the expensive and carbon-intensive manufacture of batteries, together with the eu's fossil-intensive energy mix, means that electric cars, like cars with combustion engines, emit carbon dioxide. 'listening to the science' in this case means that the eu simply decides that electric cars should be classified as clean, regardless of what they actually look like. and what does a ban mean in practice? yes, apart from killing off large parts of the european automobile industry, the oil chiefs will not stop selling their oil. because if we stop buying, the world market price drops, and other countries can buy more. other countries are supplied with cheap energy, and so both emissions and growth will take place elsewhere. banning the internal combustion engine will neither create prosperity nor improve the global climate. climate policy is not governed by science and common sense.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the left liberal majority in this house, led by centraliser-in-chief guy verhofstadt, seeks to abolish national vetoes, expand powers for the union in the areas of health, energy, defence and social and economic policy. and ensure the european pillar of social rights, which spawned the minimum wage directive, a direct attack on the swedish labour model, is fully implemented. this house and its well—funded lobby of centralists, funded by the taxpayers themselves in many cases, seek to enshrine these and other proposals to transfer more power to brussels and away from democratic, legitimate national parliaments. thankfully, there seems to be some recognition in the council that there is no public longing for more power transfers. i hope these attempts to render my country, sweden, to the status of a subservient, net-paying province of the united states of europe will be strongly rejected by the council. and if they’re not, they should be subject to approval by referenda in all member states. would you dare that?
mr president, i would like to thank you. what the chinese state calls vocational training in xinjiang is in fact a concentration camp for the purpose of genocide against the uighurs. there are about a million people in prison there, just because they belong to a minority group. not only is political indoctrination and torture being carried out there, but also a cynical exploitation of forced labour on a large scale for chinese exports. eighty percent of all cotton in china is produced there, and china accounts for a quarter of the world's cotton production. we want to trade with all countries, but we don't want a single thread or a single piece of cloth woven under slavery. we're not going to buy and wear clothes stained with innocence and blood. the eu is the world's most important trading partner. we will use that power to say yes to the freedom of all people and no to forced labor. legislation is needed to complement and strengthen the due diligence proposal we are already working on here in parliament.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i am happy to see the broad support in parliament for stronger trade relations between the european union and africa. i hope this means that we are ready for africa as a true partner, that we are ready to trade with african countries and companies, producers and farmers on their own merits and respective strengths. because successful trade is a partnership between equals. we know that trade is the base for growth, prosperity and jobs. without free trade, billions of people all around the world still would be trapped in poverty. but trade is not only about business. when we trade, we tie bonds with our partners. we set up rules and standards that reflect values important for people, health and the environment – and we are ready!
madam president, i would like to thank you. for nearly 50 years, the eu has ignored its own rule that member countries may not have a national debt higher than 60 percent of their gdp. the excuses have been many: the recent pandemic, the high electricity prices and inflation. and now there's talk of being able to ignore so-called green debts. countries should therefore be able to continue to pursue an undisciplined budgetary policy and increase their debt levels only if they use climate action as a pretext. whether or not the measures are effective does not seem to matter. as a swedish democrat, i will never accept unhealthy finances. after all, debts, whatever we call them, must eventually be paid off, if not now, by future generations.
madam president, the bickering about different parts of the eu’s climate laws is a distraction from the real issue, which is the climate laws as a whole. with a share of 7% of global co2 emissions, the eu relies on large nations from other parts of the world to join in on the climate measures. but they are not. china and india currently depend on cheap energy like coal, oil and gas. as we use less of it, it gets cheaper and they will use more. this means that we are subsidising their consumption and hurting our own economy, all while we’re not decreasing total global emissions. the solution isn’t more unrealistic goal-setting and climate socialism, but investing in research, technology and innovation, instead of bankrupting both our citizens and our companies.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the shadow of the war in ukraine, skyrocketing electricity and fuel prices and inflation, the european parliament is seizing the opportunity to try to extend the eu's power by abolishing the veto power of the member states on a fundamental issue such as taxes. there is no taxation without representation. no representation, no taxation rights, they say. i've said it before and i'll say it again: the eu is not a state and therefore should not have power over tax policy. for the representation, it's not just here. it exists at the local and national level. and the power will be first and foremost with the people, far, far away. it is the government of each country, not eurocrats, that is accountable to its people. if the voters are satisfied, they'll be re-elected. if not, they can be voted out. to talk about the importance of democracy, as this parliament does all the time, and at the same time propose the profoundly undemocratic of taking away the control of a people over their taxes says a lot about the lack of a democratic compass here in parliament. it's very disturbing.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we live in a world where many women are not in control of their own sexuality and therefore cannot decide for themselves whether to get pregnant. in addition, there are many reasons for wanting to terminate a pregnancy. whatever the reasons behind the decision to have an abortion, it is often a difficult decision - sometimes the most difficult decision in a woman's life. at the same time, there's a battle going on about whether it's the individual who should decide or whether it's the state that should decide that you should be pregnant, regardless of what you want. we who are prepared to defend our freedoms must put a stop to the value-conservative development. a concrete first step in doing so is to ensure that the right to abortion is part of the eu's fundamental rights.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner, please! the new digital services act sets new standards, a new framework to counter the spread of illegal content online and gives individual users the opportunity to challenge arbitrary decisions of platforms. the hope is that we will have better control over the use of our data by online platforms and big tech companies, because these have a lot of influence on users and a lot of possibilities to respond. so i think we can ask a lot more of them. from the perspective of the femm committee, in which i am an opinion writer, we paid particular attention to the situation of children, who are very often victims of abuse in the online environment, and to improving the situation of women through obligations for internet service providers to prevent discrimination, combat violence and respond to user signals. the internet is all about the user and protecting their rights, and we must therefore strive to strengthen their position.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. unlawful threats. websites that sell dangerous toys and drugs. social media accounts that get hacked and shut down without explanation. russian disinformation attacks. yeah, that's what life is like online today. it's time to put a stop to the digital wild west. the internet has revolutionized the world and changed our lives with brand new possibilities, but the laws haven't really caught up. today, while the vast majority of people shop online on their mobile phones and use social media, fewer use cds or fax machines. we are finally updating the eu's old digital laws after 20 years. in the negotiations, i have been a strong voice for freedom of expression, clear rules for businesses, safety for consumers and that what is illegal offline must also be illegal online. if we're going to take advantage of the digital transition, we need order. i want to see a safe and free internet, both now and in the future.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the forest is not mentioned in the treaties. sweden has never handed over forestry policy to the eu. the commission nevertheless wants to convert our forest - our national treasure - into a carbon-producing reserve. they base their proposal on the treaty's provisions on the prudent and rational use of natural resources and on a 1999 ruling by the court of justice of the european union that the commission can regulate environmental measures in forests. it may be legal, but it's not legitimate. we have never democratically relinquished control of the forest. sweden is the world's second largest exporter of industrial forest products. the forestry sector provides hundreds of thousands of jobs. the proposal to force sweden to restore at least 2.5 million hectares of natural forest will cost 350 billion kronor. instead of forestry, a dead hand is being laid over large areas of forest. how many people will lose their jobs, no one knows. be assured, many swedes will feel hit, but not anymore. the commission is cutting off the branch on which they are sitting.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. what we're discussing here is a report on mental illness. it is undoubtedly an important area where many struggle, often in secret. some people do it for periods of time, others it's a lifelong struggle. in the area of work-life balance, it is said that many, often women, feel stressed about putting the pieces of their life together. unfortunately, the left group in parliament has proposed a solution to this which would make it even more difficult to achieve this balance in everyday life, namely a fully quota-based parental insurance, without the possibility of dividing the days with the children as one wishes. if anything, it would create even more mental illness. the left therefore seriously believes that it will be less stressful for families if politicians control the schedule of individual families at the level of detail, deciding how to allocate time with the children and figuring out how best to plan it together with the parents' work. i am grateful for the generous parental leave schemes that exist in many of our countries. it makes it easier to get your day-to-day life together. however, the left's claw-fingering against families risks making more mothers and fathers feel inadequate, whether at work or at home. moreover, the precious time children have with their parents is diminishing. it's the last thing we need to fight mental illness in europe.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? 2.8 million social economy actors create jobs for millions of people in the eu. these include the small farmer's market that supplies the village with foodstuffs or the cooperative preschool that takes care of the children. with investments in the social economy, there is a great potential for creating more jobs, stronger welfare and positive economic development. i see it in my country, sweden. the social economy can also play an important role in a fair recovery from the pandemic, as well as in the green and digital transition. the commission's action plan for the social economy is therefore of the utmost importance. the key now is to understand the value created by the social economy, to increase its visibility and to create a favourable environment for the social economy to flourish. the action plan with all its proposals will make a positive contribution. while we highlight the possibilities of this, it is clear that it must go hand in hand with good working conditions, collective agreements and trade union rights. not least will women as a group benefit. they already constitute a large proportion of entrepreneurs and leaders in the social economy. facilitating the social economy will also enable women's economic freedom. it is therefore time to give the social economy and those working in it the status and opportunities they deserve. with that said, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jordi cañas, for the excellent and constructive work he has done on the report. the report as it stands now contains so many good things and important recommendations that we in the s&d group will vote for it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's delegated act on taxonomy is going in the right direction and has the support of the ukrainian government, which has just today sent a message of support to this proposal to our parliament. including nuclear and gas in sustainable investments is a step towards a gradual, non-ideological energy transition. this is a serious time. the union's energy self-sufficiency is a priority, as war and inflation have shown. secure and affordable energy supplies mean fighting inflation, making our businesses more competitive and saving thousands of jobs. the union's energy production mix with nuclear needs to be recalibrated. in fact, we only produce 25 percent of electricity, this is unacceptable, it takes more courage, nuclear will also be needed for countries like italy to catch up with a gap of decades and finally use this technology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. the same applies to gas, but we need to put a price ceiling on it, because that becomes crucial.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have already shown the red card to nuclear energy and gas once before as the european parliament, and we must do so again. taxonomy is an important tool for achieving climate goals, but the current proposal jeopardises the taxonomy's credibility. green gas and nuclear energy are not the only things that are causing people to lose confidence in us. we are clearly missing the real purpose of the regulation. and it is about more than the environmental aspect: questions from the world of work, from the social partners, from civil society. we not only want the fundamental rights of the environment and of the people to be respected, but we also want and demand social progress. this can only be done with a holistic approach to sustainability, involving trade unions and european civil society. and that's the only way we're going to create a taxonomy that we really need and really want.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let me be clear. there's nothing sustainable about fossil energy. there's nothing sustainable about fossil fuels. it is only hypocrisy to pretend that it is, and it is hypocrisy that the liberals, the christian democrats and the moderates are now engaged in by putting greenhouse gases and 'greenwash' fossil natural gas in the eu taxonomy. in its fervor for nuclear power it has been blinded to such an extent that it chooses to consider fossil energy to be sustainable. but let me be clear. it is the hesitation and the naivete of the fossil fuel industry that has brought us to the climate and geopolitical risk and crisis that we are in today. europe's gas policy has failed. now we have a chance to finally end our dependence on natural gas. then i hope that the liberals, the christian democrats, the moderates - yes, all swedish parties and all parliamentarians in this room - will choose the right side of history. i took sides a long time ago. i want to see less fossil energy in europe. i don't want to classify gas as sustainable because we need new energy. (the speaker agreed to reply to a comment (blue card). )
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013). it is well known that emma wiesner and the centre party have long been working for the closure of nuclear power in sweden. but you've opened your eyes and you see that we need more nuclear power to meet our climate goals. at least that's how your party expresses itself in sweden now. i understand your commitment to getting us off the gas, but my serious question is this: even if we are now investing in renewables, do you not see the need for more nuclear power and gas in the transition that is now about to take place?
mr president, we all want to realise the transition to the green economy, we all want to pollute less, we all want to improve our energy efficiency, but we have to admit that reaching our climate targets is only possible if we use gas as a bridge technology and if we also use nuclear energy. not compulsory for all member states but allowing those member states which wish to do so, allowing those member states which, based on the conditions in their national member states, choose to do so. we are not imposing anything but we should allow member states to choose their own energy mix. this should be the first thing that we realise. we can only realise the transition to a green economy, we can only reduce our energy dependency on russia if we support this delegated act on taxonomy. gas is a bridge technology, not from russia but from other countries worldwide. we need more investments, which means that we need to give predictability to investors and this is what the delegated act will also allow for. furthermore, this delegated act is already a compromise. indicators, they are tough. this is why it deserves the support of this house. it will bring more certainty and it will allow us to meet our long-term objectives.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine began 130 days ago, and since then we have bought nearly €17 billion of gas and oil from mr putin. we are in the midst of a climate emergency, facing an unprecedented energy crisis, but also an explosion in the cost of living. and some in this house would like to see gas and nuclear, with their waste, painted green for over 200,000 years. in the short term, doing so is funding putin and thus prolonging this unjust war. it's funding chaos. it is a waste of billions of euros on energy of the past when there is an urgent need to invest massively in renewable energy. the un secretary-general, mr guterres, has called investments in the production of new fossil fuels and nuclear power plants moral and economic folly. such investments will soon be stranded assets and a scourge for investment portfolios, he added. we have a chance to stop this madness now: let's reject this delegated act.
mr president, the development of renewable energies is a key element of the european union's energy policy. but if we are really determined to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, we need gas and nuclear power. that is the view of the european commission in the delegated act to be voted on tomorrow. there is no doubt that nuclear energy is emission-free and that the industrial technological capacity to produce hydrogen on a large scale requires gas installations. but the commission is not proposing a blank cheque. in the case of natural gas, only new electricity production facilities that replace more polluting ones would be considered sustainable until 2030. as regards nuclear energy, only those plants which have a fund for their decommissioning and waste storage facilities are considered. for all these reasons, and also in view of the energy, economic and social situation in which we find ourselves, i think that the commission's delegated act should be supported.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! you guys! europe is in the midst of an energy crisis. people and businesses are hit hard. we need to re-think energy policy to get reasonable costs, but also, of course, to achieve our climate goals and to move away from europe's dependence on putin. in this case, investment must be directed not only towards renewables and energy efficiency improvements, but also towards nuclear power and, in a transitional phase, gas under strict criteria. anything else would be irresponsible right now. to all of you who say nuclear power is too expensive or takes too long, i want to say that you have nothing to worry about either. but then don't veto any investment in nuclear power. that is why i hope that the european parliament will now come to its senses and vote against this objection.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a world without international cooperation would be both more dangerous, poorer and, above all, less free. to fight pandemics, to save the climate, to create space rules, or to protect human rights, we need multilateralism - organizations and structures where countries large and small can have their say. the alternative is that powerful countries dictate, that aggressive countries threaten. but we cannot accept that countries abuse the international cooperation we have to ensure peace and freedom. russia, a permanent member of the un security council, violated the very un charter. they attacked, invaded a peaceful neighboring country. the fact that russia was finally thrown out of the un human rights council was of course entirely right in the same way that they were thrown out of the council of europe. we should be very afraid of multilateralism, but countries that turn their backs on it should know that a place in organizations that give influence and prestige is not something you subscribe to, but something you qualify for.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the aim has been good and it certainly sounds good that the eu is now bringing order to the digital wild west. it may be called order, but in practice it is rather a gigantic and complex digital bureaucracy that will soon require new regulations. when in history has massive bureaucracy led to more dynamism, innovation and growth? i never know, on the contrary, massive administration in the end benefits governments and large companies that can afford to adapt. but the biggest problem here is so clearly that freedom of speech will be further restricted by this legislation. our constitutional freedoms will now be in the hands, not just of big tech, but also of appointed cyber police, so-called trusted flaggers, when our freedom of speech should instead be solely based on democratically-created laws - both offline and online. the laws are there. above all, we need the adaptation of our courts to the speed of the digital world, not more bureaucracy and arbitrariness.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a total of 3.2 million swedes voted against emu and the euro. it is an election result which the eu today ignores as we become more and more involved in the economic policy of the union. the corona fund is an example of this, i.e. a package of grants to euro countries that were already dysfunctional economies before the pandemic. while receiving subsidies, swedish citizens and businesses suffer from skyrocketing prices for food, energy, and fuel, among other things. next year, croatia will adopt the euro. i defend the right of countries to decide which currency they want, but then they should also be able to manage their own finances and not expect contributions from other countries, especially from us outside the euro area. croatia is welcome to join the monetary union, but it is time to respect the swedish people's refusal and to really exclude us from it.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission! prime minister! i am pleased to read that the three presidencies, france, the czech republic and sweden, will work towards greater equality. at the same time, i am very concerned that gender issues are not being highlighted as a sufficiently clear priority in the czech presidency. the threat to gender equality and women's human rights is extremely serious. the pandemic has led to an increase in violence against women. abortion rights are being violated not only in the united states but also in our own union. it is estimated that it will take three generations three generations! before the eu is equal. i therefore have two questions for the prime minister. when does the czech republic plan to ratify the istanbul convention and how will you push for the eu to do the same? what are your main gender equality priorities this autumn?
the rapporteur. president. - the debate is closed. united in diversity. that is the motto of the european union. however, we in this chamber do not reflect the diversity of the citizens of the european union. this is partly because not everyone has the same opportunities to take their seats and raise their voices. many people are discriminated against, and we know that discrimination is intersectional. several different grounds of discrimination interact and limit people's opportunities to take their place and raise their voices. the report we are now voting on is a step in the right direction. in this report we recognise intersectional discrimination. we say we will do more to combat it, and we put forward a range of tools on how to do this. i want to thank you for the good cooperation with everyone from right to left. the cooperation and the constructive atmosphere have given me hope.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. let me tell you about the swedish centre party. this party has long poisoned the debate at home in sweden with accusations of putin-friendliness. a month ago, their leader, annie lööf, questioned the blue-and-yellow conservative bloc's credibility in security policy and demanded guarantees that it would not sit on putinists in high government positions. then votewatch released its review of russia votes here in the european parliament, which shows, among other things, that the sweden democrats' party group ecr has consistently been the most putin-critical. votewatch also shows that the sweden democrats are one of the most putin-critical parties in all of europe and the most critical of all swedish parties, followed by the christian democrats and the moderates. the left party stands out as one of the least anti-russian parties in europe, closely followed by the social democrats. the centre has nothing to brag about either. how crazy it can get when fictional narrative meets reality. unfortunately, there are parties on both the right and the left who do not want to criticize russia. they deserve criticism. but to falsely paint political opponents as putinists, to spread disinformation while potentially paving the way for a government that includes the country's least anti-russia party, the left party - that's what swedish center party leader annie lööf does. don't do what annie did.
madam president, colleagues, that the populist movements in the eu are puppets of putin is unfortunately nothing surprising, but it is horrific. russia has long been a cash machine for the far—right political forces in our union – even for the sweden democrats who were here just a couple of minutes ago in claiming that they were voting in a certain way, but at the same time they were revealed to have direct connections to the kremlin! it is not enough to say that you are voting in a certain way. you also need to cut the umbilical cord to the kremlin. russia and the anti-democratic movements in the eu and beyond meet in their mission of hate towards everything that we democratic forces believe in: women’s rights; lgbti rights; migrants’ rights. these are basically democratic rights and the same rights that are a central part of the multilateral system we put in place after the second world war, which putin now wants to shatter. we promised ourselves that the horrific history of europe would not repeat itself, but yet it has and it is. we need a truth commission that reveals the connections between the kremlin and the populists, extremists and undemocratic eu forces in this parliament and the whole eu. thriving on war crimes must at no time or at any place be accepted. (the speaker declined to respond to a blue-card speech by charlie weimers )
mr president, i would like to thank you. members of the house! europe is in a deep energy crisis. many households are struggling to cope with the cost of energy and food, the most basic of things. at the same time, many energy companies are making huge profits. this creates opportunities. a properly designed tax could make it easier for those companies that want to and are already making green investments to transfer resources from those that do not want to participate in the green transition in the same way. it must be properly designed, however, otherwise it risks actually raising prices even more and harming those companies that are already fully engaged in the green transition. if we succeed in this, we will not have to face a crisis like this again, because then we will have the green energy we need. i think that would be very good.
sorry, you will not get the floor as you cannot name the procedural point. the rules speak about personal statements but not about other statements. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 july 2022. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the post-cotonou agreement (2022/2715(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, our relation with the acp countries is, as you well know, the longest—standing relationship with third partners that the eu has had. its origins date back to the beginning of the history of our organisation, and over time our framework grew to the current membership of more than half of the countries of the world. recently we also witnessed a major and significant development on our partners’ side: the birth of the organisation of african, caribbean and pacific states, with an ambition to become a global player. during the past years, both sides have worked hard on negotiating a new modern framework which responds to the many challenges of our age and which uses our bond in the most effective and efficient way to promote the many values and views we share in the global scene. these negotiations were driven by a common goal of exploring the potential of our partnership to shape multiple multilateral discussions to the benefit of our peoples. the new agreement builds on the substantial and important acquis and experience we gained together with the acp countries. it sets out a flexible framework with provisions applying to all parties, as well as regional partnerships focusing on the reality, challenges and needs of each region. the new institutional set—up is to ensure the flow of information between the regional and all acp levels. furthermore, the modernised parliamentary dimension has been strengthened considerably and is an important element of this new institutional framework. the work of the joint parliamentary assembly will be complemented by regional assemblies allowing for discussions, focusing on issues specifically relevant for the respective region. the new agreement sets out an inclusive framework, increasing the presence and role of the different stakeholders, be it local authorities, civil society or private sector representatives. the creation of an open and transparent mechanism for structured cooperation will be an important, innovative element of the renewed partnership. honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, work is well-advanced within the council on the council decision on the signing and provisional application of the new agreement, and the czech presidency is determined to continue efforts and to bring the process forward towards a conclusion so that the preparations for the signature of the agreement can start as soon as possible. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am glad that thanks to this house we are having today the opportunity to exchange on the cotonou agreement, the foundation of our strategic engagement with the african, caribbean and pacific regions. these three regions, covering 79 states and inhabited by 1.5 billion people, constitute an international force and are of strategic interest to the european union. we have all agreed that we wish to strengthen and deepen our relationship with those regions in order to better address emerging needs and global challenges – be it climate change and biodiversity, the pandemic or peace and security. on that basis, we negotiated a modern and ambitious agreement, reached a political deal in december 2020, and minister dussey from togo and commissioner urpilainen initiated the draft new agreement in april 2021. it lays down the common principles of our partnership for the next 20 years and marks a step towards a new era for the relationship between the eu and africa, the caribbean and pacific regions. our relations with these three regions are vivid and dynamic. since the initiating ceremony, the eu deepened its partnership with africa at the successful sixth eu—african union summit and renewed relations with the indo-pacific region at the indo-pacific forum in february 2022. we are also working to reinforce our partnership with the broader latin america and caribbean region. honourable members, we are, however, missing an important piece of the puzzle. we have still not signed and applied the draft post—cotonou agreement. this delay has not gone has not gone unnoticed. on 9 june, our partners expressed, in the council of ministers of the organisation of the african, caribbean and pacific states, their serious concerns about the delay in signing the new agreement. they urged the concerned eu member states blocking the approval to positively consider facilitating the normal functioning of relations. given this circumstance, we had to extend the current cotonou agreement once again until june 2023 so as to avoid any legal vacuum in the relations with our partners. it is high time that we follow through so that people in the eu, africa, the caribbean and the pacific will fully benefit from this agreement. this is also essential for unlocking the full potential of our global gateway and regional strategies. i believe that the commission and the european parliament share the same sense of urgency to sign and apply the agreement as soon as possible. the ball is at the moment not in the commission’s court. in order to apply and for the agreement to come into effect, it is for the council to adopt the relevant decision on signature and provisional application. this should be a top priority for the council of the eu, and we hope that it will adopt such a decision very soon so as to be able to move towards the signature of the new agreement swiftly. the current geopolitical context, characterised by instability and insecurity makes this even more urgent. we just lived through a pandemic which left its mark on our society and economy. now, russia’s military aggression against ukraine is further aggravating the situation. i firmly believe that in times of geopolitical instability and global challenges, strong partnerships are key in finding solutions. in this spirit, let me reiterate my call to the council to take action and come up with a clear timeline detailing the steps towards the signature of the post—cotonou agreement.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as chair of the european parliament’s committee on development, let me be clear. the recent decision by the council to extend the cotonou agreement until next year and the repeated failure to sign the modernised partnership agreement with the organisation of african, caribbean and pacific states is very disappointing. parliament’s view is that this modernised agreement has the potential to enhance our political partnership since it covers crucial issues such as climate change, migration, and peace and security. it is clear that we do need to tackle these major challenges together. today’s increasingly unstable and unpredictable geopolitical landscape makes it even more important for us to enhance cooperation with our partner countries. therefore, i once again call on the council to overcome any remaining divisions internally. i do know that there is one country that is the problem. i don’t have to mention them but they have had elections now, so hopefully, hopefully, we can now come to that we can have this agreement signed and then parliament will be ready to give its consent.
mr president, colleagues, in a time of polarisation globally, and when our multilateral corporations are under tremendous pressure, we need more cooperation, cohesion and trust—building. we have in the last month become fully aware that global threat requires joint actions, but it is also time to understand that global prosperity requires joint actions as well. the post—cotonou agreement is essential part of the continued strengthening of the cooperation between eu and the countries in africa, caribbean and the pacific. at the basis of trade and development cooperation must always be common values, democratic rights and a feminist approach, ensuring inclusion of women and girls and their rights. it is essential that we together fight climate change and put equality in the centre. i totally agree with the rapporteur, tomas tobé, that it is disappointing – i would even say shameful – that we have a member state that blocks important agreements. it is important that the council swiftly sign it so that it can enter into force. global prosperity requires joint actions. the failure of one eu member state to understand it shouldn’t deprive the progress of basic human rights; it’s unacceptable.
author. – madam president, the everyday action of the chinese communist regime speaks its own language: it is ruthless and it is cruel. there are no limits as regards attacks on freedom of association, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of religion and belief. the unlawful arrest of cardinal joseph zen, one of the strongest advocates of this city’s pro-democracy movement, and the other trustees of the 612 humanitarian relief fund is an attack on fundamental freedoms, and the regime continues to step up its efforts to undermine hong kong’s strong autonomy. in practice, they have abolished the autonomy. all charges against all political prisoners, including cardinal zen and the trustees, must be dropped immediately. the national security law must be renounced immediately. and the autonomy of hong kong must be respected by the communist regime of china. nothing less is acceptable. the eu must, at the same time, offer all needed support to the human rights activists in hong kong and to help protect their rights and freedoms. the eu should also, through the eu global human rights sanctions regime, introduce sanctions against those in hong kong and those in china that are responsible for the human rights violations.
madam president, i would like to thank you. (initialed inaudible) ...banning, power tax, subsidies to renewable, politically appointed management at vattenfall. yes, the list of what the social democrats have done with the help of the centre to punish nuclear power can be made long, very long. but now reality has caught up with us. the consequences of the policy pursued can no longer be ignored: skyrocketing electricity prices, uncertain supply and inflation. with reality, opinion changes, and with opinion, social democracy changes. i don't think it was a good idea to shut down nuclear power and destroy the world's best energy mix. so, for the election, you pretend to make a u-turn. but here in the european parliament we see their true face. both the social democrats and the centre party vote against including nuclear power in the taxonomy. so they want to continue to punish nuclear energy as a source of energy. as usual, you say one thing, but do something completely different in reality. it is simply not possible to trust either the social democrats or their supporting party, the centre.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if there's one thing we can be absolutely sure about global warming, it's that the risk of severe heatwaves is increasing. they are increasing, they are getting worse, and with them the consequences: forest fires, high temperatures, poor harvests, and so on. there is probably no other context in which every tenth of a degree will be so clear. there are many in this debate now who have highlighted the value of height preparedness and more climate adaptation. that is good and important, but the most important of all is, of course, to slow down global warming. we must take this more seriously. this applies to all countries in europe. this applies to all sectors and not least here in parliament, to all political groups. take your responsibility. do what you can to ensure that we collectively reduce the risks and consequences of global warming.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. members of the house! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the constructive and sometimes difficult negotiations. i also thank our colleagues who have worked very hard on this report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the air transport sector is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. the socialist group has been pushing and being heard for higher objectives and faster action. we also need to have a functioning environment for those who work in the aviation industry if this is to work. we must also pay particular attention to the remote regions, which are particularly dependent on air transport during this transition. when i look at the development of the airline industry and when i look at this report, i am convinced that when we travel and transport things for - if not too many years - we will do so with the most environmentally friendly mode of transport. i look forward to the forthcoming tripartite talks with the commission and commissioner simson.
madam president, thank you very much. first of all, if you’re going to accuse me of something, you need to accuse me of something that i have said. what i said – and this is evident – is that there is clear evidence that far—right movements, far—right parties in this parliament have had financial support. nevertheless, i didn’t say that the swedish democrats had financial support, but it is evident and there is evidence that there have been direct links. they have had party members who haven’t even been able to get a job in the parliament structures just because of links to russia, because they are seen as a security risk. this is a fact.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. then after many and long debates we have reached the end of the road. the european parliament will vote to approve the minimum wage directive. as the proponents of this directive like to point out, this is the writing of social policy history in europe. i couldn't agree more. this directive is truly historic. no directive has ever posed such a threat to two well-functioning labour market models, namely those of sweden and denmark. nor has any directive fuelled such eu-skepticism in scandinavia, and no directive has ever shown so clearly how the commission and the european parliament are not ashamed to push the limits of the treaties in order to adopt new legislation on matters which are explicitly to be the sole responsibility of the member states. i have done everything in my power to protect the swedish labour market model from this very thing. i regret that it is now at the mercy of the european court of justice. i hope that the principle of subsidiarity and the clear limits of the treaties will be respected more in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we need more fossil-free energy in the future. it is therefore pleasing to read the rapporteur's proposal for a high level of ambition for renewable energy. we will need both more renewable energy and more nuclear energy if we are to survive the climate change and become independent of putin's gas. unfortunately, we see that the left in parliament is engaged in climate elitism. they want to make the transition more difficult by making nuclear power less attractive and by shutting down more of the major renewable energy sources - now that we are about to adopt the renewable energy directive. bioenergy accounts for the majority of renewable energy in europe, where a quarter of bioenergy in turn comes from forests. hydropower accounts for about one third of the eu's renewable electricity supply. in the environment committee, the left has done everything it can to reduce the possibility of using these energy sources. i sometimes wonder if the green left is entirely devoid of intellectual capacity for simultaneity. you claim to want to change as quickly as possible, but at the same time you refuse to do what will allow us to reach our goal.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, high representative, colleagues, to counter chinese belligerence towards taiwan or others in the indo-pacific, we must learn the lessons from ukraine: don’t become dependent on cheap energy or exports; arm your allies before the enemy attacks; work with partners in the region as well as outside (the united states) to decouple from china and secure stability in the indo-pacific; strengthen our and taiwan’s economies by enacting new, mutually—beneficial trade and investment agreements; communicate clearly that any kinetic action against taiwan will have serious consequences; announce in advance that eu—china relations can never return to ‘business as usual’ if military action is taken by the ccp. let’s speak clearly and carry a big stick!
president, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing people today who are in serious trouble because of the skyrocketing energy bills. we're not even in autumn, let alone winter, and we're already seeing social dramas. we cannot allow this to happen, ladies and gentlemen, especially at a time when fossil fuel multinationals are making billions in profits. the taboo of renouncing these gains must be thrown out of the window, and the billions must be used to provide targeted support to the most vulnerable. we must insulate the worst houses, we must put solar panels on them, and let us finally make use of that european price ceiling, as our belgian minister for energy, mr van der straeten, has asked. because the very announcement of it caused the price of gas to go down. if we actually introduce it, we can really put those speculators on guard. ladies and gentlemen, by taking action today, we can prevent a social catastrophe this winter. so let's make it work. the time is now.
madam president, commissioner, minister, inflation, driven by rising energy prices, is the main concern of europeans today, and we must continue to respond to it. this should be a european response, articulated and based on solidarity, diversifying energy sources and reducing gas and electricity consumption. the solutions include joint gas purchasing, the development of energy transport infrastructure, the focus on hydrogen as an important energy source and support measures for domestic and industrial consumers. crisis situations such as the present one also require emergency measures, including intervention in the market, but this should always be temporary, reversible and coordinated at european level. the possible consequences of this intervention must be very carefully assessed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the price increase the explosion in energy and food prices is a burden on the population and the economy, and it threatens social cohesion. what is needed is honesty, unity, determination, solidarity, a swift, coordinated eu-wide response and a package of immediate measures now. firstly, a revenue ceiling as a basis for the deduction of the incidental profits of individual energy producers. secondly, solidarity in the fossil fuel industry. we must use both to invest in the future on the one hand and to relieve the burden on the population and the economy on the other. and thirdly, saving energy in a smart way. because the most environmentally friendly, cheapest and safest energy is the energy we don't use. at the same time, we need to push the energy union forward, rethink the energy market, massively expand renewable energy and infrastructure, and accelerate energy co-generation.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for all the efforts you have made so far. yes, many things can be done and probably will be done. but beyond the energetic manifestations we see, it is very important that we make sure that the european union is united. in the face of what is happening, the unity of the union remains my number one priority. secondly, it is very important in this situation of complex geopolitical opposition that there should not be the severe division that can find expression in the european union. regarding the issue we are discussing, i think that the most important thing is to put a ceiling on gas prices as a good form also against blackmail. secondly, to increase the supply of liquefied gas and to ensure that the existing infrastructure is in place as quickly as possible. and finally, of course, a temporary separation of the cost of electricity from that of gas. there is a lot that can be done and we have experience with vouchers already, some of the colleagues have shared their experience. we must certainly do that, and when we talk about long-term solutions, diversification is more than necessary, and that is where all the efforts, both financial and logistical, must be put.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner and minister! energy prices are skyrocketing in sweden and across europe. we have to act here and now. the proposals which the commission is now putting on the table must be put into place quickly. however, i would also like to address all member states and colleagues in this house and say the following: less nuclear power or the closure of nuclear power is not the way forward. of course we must rapidly expand renewable energy, but now put down your opposition to nuclear power. nuclear power will be needed to achieve our climate goals, to break our dependence on gas and to ensure a stable energy supply in europe. many people are watching this debate and now want to see us open up to nuclear energy too.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner várhelyi, colleagues, this report calls on the eu to facilitate safe routes for asylum seekers and refugees into the eu. now it’s a fact that the left stands for an ultra—liberal migration policy. so i want to address colleagues on the right side of the aisle. you know as well as i do that we must stop signalling that europe will accommodate everyone. and you pretty well know that many of those are allowed into the eu and then denied asylum remain here illegally. less than a third are returned. even the danish social democrat government gets this. they aim for a sustainable asylum policy. they’ve struck a deal with rwanda, enabling transfers of asylum seekers to safety in africa. in rwanda, asylum applications will be processed, and if asylum is granted then protection provided. if the eu followed suit, it would crush the business model of human traffickers and end deaths at sea. it would enable assimilation as well as the return of those who have no right to be here. we must deter illegal migration, finance physical border barriers, return migrant boats to their ports of origin, and never, ever send a cent in aid to countries not accepting returns of its citizens. the left has no moral high ground on migration. their open borders policy has failed, and the centre—right must stop enabling it. support the amendments of the conservatives!
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am not going to go into that. crises, climate, pandemics, russia's war in ukraine and now also an energy crisis - crises that require common solutions, political courage and clear leadership. i expect the commission to live up to all that. support and solidarity with ukraine must continue. it is important because we see women and children suffering every day. we got some good news today about the rebuilding of schools in ukraine. before winter, we need quick solutions to alleviate the insane electricity bills in our member states, but this must not mean that we pause the climate change. we need to invest even more in renewables. last but not least, in these troubled times, the eu must be the guarantor of democracy, gender equality and equity in a difficult time.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu's fundamental values must never be negotiable. the eu's defence of our fundamental rights is more important than ever as we move towards tougher times - times when we know, with history behind us, that the risk of extremist and anti-democratic forces is increasing. hungary has become the first non-democratic member of the eu, and it's only getting worse and worse and worse. the european commission and the council must now seriously use all the tools in their toolbox and take the tough ones. the rogue government in hungary will not get a penny of our taxpayers' money, and the infringement procedure must go forward. the aid must go to the people of hungary instead. this cannot continue in our union. the hungarian people deserve action, and it's now. last summer, the racist orbán said that hungarians are not mixed races, that they do not want to become a mixed race, and that countries where europeans and non-europeans mix are no longer nations. in sweden, we have "our own orbán": sweden democrats leader jimmie åkesson, who has called for an end to all immigration that constitutes a social, cultural or economic burden in order to demonize foreign-born and other groups. his party colleague expressed his desire to free sweden from alien enemies. these are people we're talking about - women and children fleeing for their lives. it is about me and my family and many other foreign-born swedes and europeans. these statements are a reminder of a time we must never forget, so that it will never be repeated. this is serious. what is happening in hungary can happen elsewhere if we don't put our feet down now.
i would not like to give the extremists any more time than they have already had, so no.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? there is a difference between hungary and the hungarian government and viktor orbán. as you have heard, we are quite tired of standing in this chamber and complaining about viktor orbán's corrupt and authoritarian regime. at the same time, we welcome the fact that the commission has finally begun to implement the democracy lock or the so-called rule of law mechanism. i myself was in hungary a few days before the election and i saw the hope in the eyes of the hungarian citizens and the question: why didn't we act sooner? the longer we wait, the deeper viktor orbán and his lackeys will put their claws into hungarian society. i would also like to say that i am very much in favour of the commission's intention to add corruption as an item in the european magnitsky act. i look forward to the conclusions of such a search of the accounts and financial activities of viktor orbán and his lackeys. there's gonna be a lot of dogs buried there, funded by our taxpayers' money. (the speaker refused to reply to a comment (blue card) by ádám kósa.)
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. colleagues and visitors! this year we had to fight to bring out the truth about the state of fundamental rights in our union. the truth about the rise of racism. the truth about discrimination. the truth about the threats to journalists and the investigative media. we had to fight the extreme right in this parliament to be able to write the facts down at all. they wanted to hide the facts. they wanted to make invisible what happens to people in the eu every day. but they lost, as racists, fascists and nazis and their cohorts always do in the end. wherever they are, whether in the swedish parliament and government or in the european parliament, they will lose in the end. but the road to their loss is a terrible journey. those who pay the highest price are the ones who need the rights the most. i am so grateful and happy that we still have more human rights defenders in this parliament. for now, the truth is on the table.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it's going down fast as extremists grow stronger and even faster as they take over. then they are no longer afraid to show their true colors: women's rights, lgbtq rights, minority rights, free and independent judiciary and media freedom are some of the many things that are rumored. after sunday's elections, my country, sweden, is now leaning towards a one-term majority for a right-wing conservative/liberal and far-right government. representatives of the far-right sweden democrats, who have both nazi roots and still wear nazi brown stripes, have already stepped up their attacks on free and independent media and journalists. the current second vice-president of the swedish parliament, the sweden democrats, and their chief of staff have both threatened in recent days that the public service should be notified and so-called reformed, and that they are now prepared to "push journalists" and "run a journalists' town". in other words, if you don't jump on their pipe, you're gone. the statements reflect a contempt for free, independent media and journalists, who are the cornerstone of a democracy. hungary, poland, italy, germany and my beautiful sweden are some of the countries affected by the pandemic of extremism, which we must combat with all our might. i am ashamed, however, that parties which claim to stand for democracy and human rights are normalising these parties and their views for the sake of power. in sweden, both the epp parties, m and kd, and the liberals have become useful idiots for the extremists by actively cooperating with them. today's report is extremely important. it's time to act for our democracy, for our freedom.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for a very good report, despite a very messy start, because of the right-wing maniac over there who tried to stop the work. in addition to the systematic dismantling of rights in our union in many places, several governing parties have taken advantage of these times of crisis to reduce the rights and freedoms of european citizens. in many cases, governments have used the security argument to increase surveillance of our citizens and further restrict privacy and limit the opportunities of already marginalized groups, such as lgbtq people. disabled people have been relegated to the back of the line, as if their lives were not worth as much. women's autonomy over their own bodies has been curtailed, and our womb has become political propaganda for the far right. racism is on the rise and women in the eu are being beaten and murdered by men in their own homes. they are controlled and they are limited. we have to do better. we need to do more. this is simply not the way to go in the world's only union of democracies.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. it hurts when history repeats itself right in front of our eyes. tools used by the dictatorships of communism and nazism are being used today by putin's regime against the ukrainian people. last week, we were struck by horrific reports that russia has forcibly adopted thousands of innocent ukrainian children, having stolen many of them from the arms of their parents, as a demographic weapon against the ukrainian population. we have been informed since april that russia has forcibly deported over a million ukrainian citizens and forced them into "filtration camps" where civilians are interrogated for hours to purge so-called nationalists. this is nothing but a purge of a people. it is also a war crime and a crime against humanity. the dark chapters of our common human history would not be repeated, but only if we chose to remember them and to act forcefully against anti-democratic forces. it is therefore important that we collectively demand an end to russia's ongoing human rights violations and demand that the european commission and the member states act so that our history is not repeated in ukraine or anywhere else on this planet. those behind these vile deportations and forced adoptions must be sanctioned immediately. putin has to be stopped. the rise of the far right in europe and the world. the extremists in russia, hungary, italy and even in my country, sweden, are empowered by each other's success. russia's aggression against ukraine is one of the most heinous violations of international law. our entire credibility and international cooperation is at stake. the ukrainian people have suffered enough and the consequences of the aggression against ukraine are being felt in every part of the world. i'm going to the ukrainian slava.
for the renew group. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we hold our breath. we're watching in real time as the ukrainian army retaliates. square foot by square foot, street by street, village by village, liberated. putin's war, however, is not just about territory. this is not the first time russia has used starvation and deportation as a weapon. history repeats itself. this is not about isolated cases. we are receiving reports of up to two million ukrainian citizens being deported to russia, children being stolen and adopted. this has to stop. russia must be held accountable. all those in russian custody must have their passports returned immediately and be released. we must continue to give ukraine our full support until every mother, every father and every child has returned home - home to a free, peaceful ukraine.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! the pandemic is not over yet, but in the eu, thanks to the vaccine, we hope the worst is behind us. in a european health union, we now have new tools to prevent the next mutation of the coronavirus or a virus not yet known to us from becoming a new pandemic. if member states can share data with each other early on, we can predict the next step and we can impose local restrictions even before the virus arrives. the whole eu needs protective equipment, intensive care units and testing laboratories, and if one member state has full testing laboratories, another member state can help. it is by increasing transparency around joint procurement that we can combat misinformation and vaccine resistance. viruses and pandemics know no borders, and i really look forward to better coordination so that we can tackle viruses and pandemics in the future.
madam president, i would like to thank you. members of the house! i would like to thank the rapporteur for this very important report. a society that takes into account the needs of all, including those with wide functional variations, is a good society. it'll be a better society for everyone. that's why this center is so incredibly important. focusing on these issues will help us all do a better job. at the same time, it is extremely important: this cannot become an island, this cannot become something that 'takes care of the problem', but it must be integrated into all the work that we actually do. the humanism of a society is characterized ultimately by how we care for each other and how we care for those who may have the greatest needs. that is why this is also extremely important. if we're going to be successful, and we're going to be successful fast, we also have to set an example. in its own work on accessibility, the european parliament must therefore assume the great responsibility of always being at the forefront, of always being the most accessible. then we will succeed.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. once again, we stand here and are appalled by the abhorrent and inhuman conditions with which many of our roma citizens are forced to live, and how police brutality and racism only exacerbate poverty and the abuses among roma communities. we are appalled at the way in which the mistreatment and the commission's inability to act allows discrimination to continue, as if it were something new, and as if it were the first time the commission has seen through the fingers when states and governments flout their democratic values. why is nothing happening? in bulgaria, we see how eu money is used to train police to fight so-called radicalisation in roma communities. in hungary, eu money is being spent on demolishing roma houses and evicting roma families and building segregated housing for roma only. anti-gypsyism is on the rise across the eu, often driven by governments themselves. that's enough! this commission must act when countries abuse their own people with eu money. this commission must show that it is serious about standing up for democracy and human rights and the equal rights and dignity of all.
madam president, racism, discrimination in the labour market, forced evictions, marginalisation, hate speech – even by elected officials in this parliament, even by prime ministers in our union – racially motivated attacks, deprived of education. the list can be made long on the inhuman and degrading treatment of roma people. according to the eu fundamental rights agency, an estimated 80% of roma families and their children in our union live below our respective national at-risk-of-poverty thresholds. there is a lot in the eu i am proud of, but the treatment of roma people is not one of them. if you really want to know a society in depth, you should look at how it treats its people. we claim that our union is built on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, equality and respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities. that we in modern times have settlements in the eu is a big failure for all of us. it is a big failure of our commitments to the roma people. we continue to fail to respect the fundamental rights of the roma people while children are being deprived of their possibility to fulfil their dreams and grown-ups are having their lives crushed. support to the roma community, ending impunity for those committing crimes against roma people, and infringement proceedings against member states that on purpose continuously deprive the roma community of their human rights are a few of the many things we must do. there is an immediate need for action in the eu and in the member states.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we cannot accept a europe of discrimination and exclusion, a europe where exclusion means that people cannot work and earn a living, cannot be educated, cannot participate. we cannot tolerate a europe where roma continue to be excluded. it is no coincidence that countries where the rule of law is weak, or even dismantled, are countries where the situation of the roma is particularly difficult. these countries also receive large amounts of eu aid. it's been said before, but it must be said again: countries that violate the rule of law, countries that do not use eu aid as intended, should not be able to continue receiving payments from brussels. the eu is a cooperation, not an atm. roma are europe's largest minority group and one of the most discriminated against. this has to stop. all countries, including my home country sweden, have a responsibility to make this happen.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there are things in our world that we can say we didn't know or that we knew very little about. the situation of many roma in the eu is not one of those things. for decades, we in power have been given report after report that in black and white describe all the gray scales of misery from systematic discrimination in housing queues and the labour market to illiteracy, begging and child sex trafficking in the eu 2022. to say that racism and discrimination against roma in the eu is normalised is an understatement. everybody knows, nobody does enough. i hope that this report will be the exception that proves the rule. let it make a difference.
her name was jina mahsa amini. a young kurdish girl in iran with her whole life ahead of her, deprived of her life by men and a regime who thinks they have the right to control women. for over 40 years, women, girls, minorities and opposition groups have lived in horror. the iranian feminist revolution is a democratic revolution that is taking place right now. the autocratic regime might think that they can suffocate and silence the people, but what they do is to fuel the anger. right now, iranian, kurdish, baluch and many other groups – especially women and young people – are leveraging their righteous wrath and shouting, ‘the days of the regime are numbered!’ the cruel morality police and all those in the government behind the oppression of the people must be sanctioned. the discrimination laws that constitute the basis of the gender apartheid in the country must be abolished. the murderers of jina and all those freely demonstrating and protesting must be brought to justice. we need to end impunity! to be silent is to be compliant. compliance can’t be the way forward for the international community if we truly stand for what we preach – democracy, human rights, equality and justice. the cause of all women and people in iran is our cause. their freedom is our freedom. (the speaker used a slogan in a non-official language) women, life, freedom!
mr president, ‘evil empire’ – that’s what president reagan dared to call the soviet union. remember that? soviet dissident natan sharansky does. he fondly remarked, ‘i remember what a burst of enthusiasm this gave us: when the west finally saw the soviet union for what it was, there would be hope for victory.’ words matter. the iranian people beg us to be their voice. and we should. but words must be matched by action. and this requires soul—searching here in europe. political prisoners and young girls don’t get a burst of enthusiasm when european politicians don hijabs in front of the regime in tehran. iranian—supplied suicide drones to russia are used to kill ukrainians. while brussels clings on to a dead nuclear deal, where are the magnitsky sanctions against the ruling elite? will protesters chanting (the speaker used a slogan in a non-official language) – ‘women, life, freedom’ – be given a hope for victory as liberals and socialists normalise relations with the murdering mullahs? mr high representative, join me in declaring what the brave iranian people already know all too well: the islamic republic is an evil republic.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it started with jina masha amini, but the imprisoned, the wounded, the murdered have many more faces and as many names. the perpetrators, the murderers and the accomplices - they are also many. but we know who they are and what they're gonna be held accountable for. then there's all of us, the rest of us, standing around. we who can choose to live our lives as usual or do what we can with what we have. peace and freedom don't come for free. the brave women, men and children who took to the streets across iran risking their lives, they show how dearly freedom is bought. the reactions and the perseverance of the world around them will determine whether their struggle, their death, was in vain or not. the freedom movement in iran needs all the support it can get, while we make it uncomfortable for the murderous iranian regime. (speaker uses a non-official language).
mr president, three weeks of continuous courage shown by the women in iran. persian, azeri, kurdish women are paying the ultimate price for freedom – their lives. this is a courage that has not been met by you, mr borrell, when you didn’t take the opportunity during the general assembly in the un and take a stand for the woman in iran. enough for the press releases now, enough for the mumbling. it’s time to speak out. it’s time to act. the hands of the regime of the mullahs in iran are stained with blood. neither history nor allah or god almighty will forgive you for the crimes against humanity that you are committing against your own citizens. we, the peoples and the citizens of the eu demand the unconditional and immediate stop of all the violence against the women and men in iran. until iran is free our fury will be bigger than the oppressors. until you, the women of iran are free, we are going to stand with you: (the speaker used a slogan in a non-official language) – women, life, freedom!
mr president, high representative, i say to the iranian women – the changemakers in iran – we support you. i want to be crystal clear that we wholeheartedly support the aspirations of the iranian people who want to live in a free, stable, inclusive and democratic country. and we strongly condemn the compulsory hijab law. we condemn the morality police. and we condemn the brutal repression and violence. but words are not enough. i call on the eu and the rest of the world to take action. we need an investigation and we need accountability. the abusers must be punished. actions do speak louder than words. that is why i hope that the eu high representative will never wear the hijab in meetings with iranian counterparts again. the former high representative, federica mogherini, failed in representing our eu values and that is why i hope the new swedish foreign minister will never wear the hijab in meetings with iranian counterparts; the former swedish foreign minister and leader failed in representing european values. enough is enough.
surrounded by azeri soldiers, you surrender. you drop your weapons to the ground. place your hands in the air. suddenly you’re thrown to the ground. your brothers in arms are herded together, lambs to the slaughter. without provocation, an azeri soldier fires a hail of bullets at one of your fellow servicemen. these are your final moments. do you say a prayer? do you hang on to the memory of your loved ones? this war crime recorded is one among many committed by the azeri armed forces over the past two years. high representative borrell, you condemn the atrocities committed by russia against ukrainians and rightly so. will you condemn war crimes committed by azerbaijan against armenia?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission, the council! russia's ruthless war is affecting the people of ukraine every day, and it threatens the peace and security of europe. as russia is now stepping up, we social democrats believe that the commission's call for unity and solidarity is crucial and that commissioner johansson's visa guidelines are reasonable. in this security situation, it is critical that the leaks detected in the nord stream 1 and 2 gas pipelines in the baltic sea are now properly investigated. this probable sabotage has taken place in the swedish and danish economic zones and is very serious. it's only a few miles from where i live. putin's cold-blooded actions in ukraine and the illegal annexations must be stopped. we, the eu, must continue our strong cooperation. one thing is certain: putin will not emerge victorious from this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the best way to counter propaganda is with facts. the west can never and should never underestimate the kremlin's propaganda. it's everywhere, and it's effective. it is intended to undermine european resilience with false claims that kiev will fall in three days, that the russian military is the second strongest in the world, and that even today we hear from various quarters that ukraine cannot win. facts are the best way to counter lies. ukrainian heroes are now showing that ukraine can actually win, with swedish and european support. the russian propaganda machine has also been very effective in energy policy. we know that gazprom has financed environmental organizations with the aim of shutting down european energy production and increasing dependence on russian gas. we know that the belgian environmentalist energy minister, who was previously a lawyer on the payroll of gazprom, now wants to shut down the country's nuclear power plant. environmental groups in germany received tens of millions from russia to oppose energy extraction. if europe is to resist russian pressure, it needs to examine itself. my party has cleaned up after putin apologists. but what about the political centre that said that nord stream was a strictly commercial project and that the energy weapon would not be used by putin - is there self-examination there? and when will the self-criticism and the will to improve come from a climate movement that has taken russian money? when will the environmental left admit that their fight against nuclear power has weakened europe and made putin's aggression possible?
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, minister, colleagues! no one can ignore what russia has done and is doing in turning lies into truth to achieve its goals. we can't say we didn't know, that we didn't see it coming. the annexation of crimea by russia and the war in eastern ukraine were nothing more than a slap in the face to the european security order. it was obvious that the gas pipelines at the bottom of the baltic sea had more than just business purposes. since the invasion of ukraine, disinformation has now reached new heights. as ukrainian troops are about to take back their own country, a desperate putin continues to turn lies into truth. on friday, russia annexed four new ukrainian regions with the backing of so-called referendums. the worst thing about disinformation is that it works. look what elon musk tweeted the other day! no, an unprovoked offensive war is not a matter of two parties agreeing, but russia must return every square meter. we have to stop playing in putin's theater. no more lies. the truth must win.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already done so. the head of the wto, dr ngozi okonjo-iweala, wrote to us and to the eu just last week that our most urgent, topical task is to ensure that all people have access to food and energy. this is why achieving the un's 2030 sustainable development goals is a top priority, including through eu external trade policy. some in the commission have understood this, and their assessment of what has not worked so far in the 15-point plan is quite good. however, the commission lacks implementation and speed. hurry up, but don't run in the wrong direction. that's been said today. we do not need to rush into new trade deals. what we need are cooperation agreements and jointly developed standards and road maps. for not only the war in ukraine and elsewhere, but also global warming and the under-supply of the majority of the world's population are distressingly real threats to people everywhere. act now and no longer leave the price of food and energy to disrupted markets and supply chains. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. let us look at pakistan and somalia and calculate the cost of disasters to the world when such outdated trade agreements with mercosur act as a catalyst for fires in the amazon. we need to make sustainability the central benchmarking, with binding legal enforcement instruments.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european union is a popular trading partner in global markets because of its high-quality products and services. however, in response to the effects of the energy crisis, war inflation and the general economic downturn, and to changes in the international environment, this action plan should primarily ensure the union's competitiveness and not the promotion of ideological ideas that are otherwise outside the scope of trade policy. hungary is committed to the sustainability goals, the importance of environmental protection, human rights. it should be noted, however, that international trade policy is not intended to and cannot serve other policy objectives. all possible means should be used to help the expansion of hungarian and european companies active on foreign markets. open and rules-based trade is in the interest of hungary and the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the eu is now going through the worst crisis in modern times: energy, inflation, growth, competitiveness, climate and sustainability challenges and russia's illegal invasion of ukraine. the multilateral world order is threatened by increasingly aggressive power play. the difficult situation in the world highlights the importance of the european community and the crossborder challenges that require crossborder solutions. now the eu must stand guard over free trade and, through international cooperation, work towards the eu's ambitious sustainability agenda and build resilience to deal with future crises. transparency pays off even in a troubled world. we need to trade with countries from all corners of the world. the eu and new zealand have now concluded a free trade agreement, and we must press for negotiations with, for example, australia, chile and mexico. it is also time to take the eu-mercosur agreement out of the freezer and open up a market of over 260 million consumers - a deal worth fighting for. it also contains an ambitious chapter on sustainable development and a clear commitment to the effective implementation of the paris agreement. the sustainability chapter shall promote the conclusion of free trade agreements, not create additional obstacles that hamper already complex negotiations. the eu will not dismantle existing free trade agreements. we're going to draw new ones.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when former trade commissioner cecilia malmström launched negotiations for a free trade agreement with new zealand, the ambition was high. many may have doubted. some resisted. is it possible to negotiate a free trade agreement that has both far-reaching trade liberalisation and high sustainability requirements? this debate is not about the agreement with new zealand, but it is important to highlight what can be achieved. now that we have the agreement on the table, we can say that it is permeated by the objectives of the paris agreement, and that it promotes trade in climate-smart products. it contains a joint agreement to remove fossil fuel subsidies, and it includes gender equality and social considerations. we cannot go back to a time when trade was all about volume. trade policy is a tool for sustainability, and without trade we cannot have sustainable development. closure and protectionism only make the world poorer and less sustainable. that is why the strategy we are discussing here is so important.
mr president, we can no longer, as has been said, continue to regard the european union's trade instrument as a purely contractual relationship that favours the maximisation of profits for the strongest at the expense of the weakest. as we have seen, trade has adverse effects on the environment, on human rights and sometimes on workers' rights. as the ombudsman has said, the european union's trade policy today has nothing to do with human rights. and so, we welcome with great interest the issue of the sdg, the sustainable development chapter, but unfortunately, the issue of human rights is not in this sdg. i therefore ask that this tsd be corrected with the proposals made by the ombudsman. i think that this ombudsman is useful and that she has no interest on the right, left or centre, but that she has the interest of european citizens at heart, and i think it is important that you can correct the shot in that specific objective.
the commission's vice-president other mr president, i thank everyone for this very rich debate. it is clear from the tone and content of this debate that our exchanges over the last eighteen months have contributed a great deal to the thinking that is emerging today. let me conclude with two remarks on two families of issues that have been raised by some of you, many of you. first, on implementation and enforcement, and then on human rights. let us reiterate our commitment to a stronger focus on implementation and enforcement. we will extend the standard state-to-state dispute settlement compliance phase to the tsd chapter of our agreements, meaning that the party found in violation of any of the tsd commitments will have to promptly inform on how it will implement the panel report and comply within a certain period of time. we will also include the possibility to apply, as a last resort, trade sanctions for material breaches of the paris climate agreement and the ilo fundamental labour principles. now, on the issue of human rights, tsd chapters cover, among other violations, the violations of labour rights such as child labour or forced labour. the violations of human rights are covered by the essential element clauses in our agreements. but what is important is that both the sanctions and the essential element clauses ensure that our trading partners will respect the most important values in our relations, which constitute the basis on which we can expand and engage in our trade relations. so thank you very much for this exchange. the commission looks forward to further discussions with you on this important subject.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the humanitarian situation following the catastrophic floods in pakistan and the climate crisis (2022/2837 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, on behalf of the presidency and the council, i would like to express my sincere condolences to the people of pakistan, who were hit with the worst flooding in the country’s history. in this tragic context, we should be proud of the fact that the eu and its member states were one of the first responders to this disaster. the eu’s emergency humanitarian aid targeted primarily the provision of emergency shelter, food and clean water, as well as cash transfers and primary health care services. the commissioner will certainly elaborate further on the current needs assessment, but i should say that the eu is ready to consider further assistance to the pakistani people. furthermore, we have successfully used the eu civil protection mechanism to provide in-kind assistance from member states, and we have also mobilised an eu civil protection team, with experts from several member states that were dispatched to pakistan immediately after the flooding. this immediate response was facilitated by the long-standing cooperation between the eu and pakistan on disaster risk reduction, especially since the previous devastating floods in 2010. the tragic events in pakistan should remind us of the fact that 90% of all major natural disasters in the world today are connected to climate change. according to the latest ipcc assessment report, 40% of the world population, notably in developing countries, is highly vulnerable because of climate change, with an increased risk of cyclones, droughts, floods, heat waves, infectious diseases, sea level rises and wildfires. this is why we need to work more on prevention and aim towards an integrated climate and disaster risk reduction governance. we support the work of the united nations in this regard, particularly its office for disaster risk reduction. its call to action towards zero climate disasters by 2050 aims at reducing vulnerability, increasing risk management and early warning systems, and strengthening the resilience of communities. this undertaking will require a ‘whole of society’ approach, where governments are in the driving seat, but they must bring together all the different stakeholders. the eu is ready to contribute its share to this work. the sooner we deal with disaster reduction, the more prepared we will be to save lives and livelihoods in future climate disasters. this is why the czech presidency has decided to place this issue at the heart of its programme, especially from the perspective of humanitarian assistance, development, cooperation and civil protection. the council is presently discussing draft council conclusions on disaster risk reduction in eu external action that we intend to adopt at the foreign affairs council in november, focusing particularly on natural and human—induced disasters across the crisis management cycle. we expect these conclusions to strengthen the eu’s global role as a promoter of disaster risk reduction, so that situations such as the one faced by pakistan will, in the future, result in less suffering for those affected. thank you very much for your attention. i look forward to listening to the debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the pakistani people are enduring the unimaginable. on behalf of the european commission, i wish to convey our deepest condolences to those who lost their lives, homes and livelihoods during the historic monsoon rains in pakistan and the catastrophic flash floods which followed. the devastation has been what united nations secretary general guterres called ‘climate carnage’. over 33 million people have been affected by the floods. almost 1 700 people have lost their lives. at least 8 million have been displaced from their homes. millions of houses have been completely destroyed or ruined. almost 4 million acres of crops and arable land impacted. over one third of the country is submerged by the floods. the floods have also triggered outbreaks of disease and thrown people into food insecurity, literally overnight. the european union has been the very first immediate responder on the ground among donors. we initially mobilised over eur 2 million in humanitarian aid to assist flood—affected communities in the hardest hit regions. this support has included emergency shelter, food, water and sanitation, cash and primary health care. through our union civil protection mechanism, we have also coordinated and financially supported the delivery of assistance from seven eu member states so far – belgium, sweden, france, greece, austria, denmark and slovenia. they have provided tents and water purification systems and sent doctors and many other types of support urgently requested by the pakistani authorities. i sincerely thank them for their support. we also activated the european union’s emergency satellite service, copernicus, to provide satellite images to help monitor the situation. we have our european union humanitarian expert on the ground in the hardest hit regions. commissioner lenarčič is himself visiting the most affected regions across pakistan this week, where he has announced the proposals for an additional eur 30 million in humanitarian aid. with this funding, we will be able to maintain support for their response over the coming months. the european commission is also mobilising experts to carry out the post—disaster needs assessment jointly with the un and the world bank. also, from the european union development corporation side, there is already short-term support under way for the adaptation of ongoing development programmes in the worst—hit provinces to support nutrition, agriculture, water and sanitation. beyond the immediate response, the european union is also supporting the pakistani authorities in the area of disaster preparedness, anticipatory action, early warning system and more. because preventing is better than only responding. this flood has shown we need to do more to tackle climate change, not only respond to its humanitarian consequences. just as stability in pakistan is in our own interests, so pakistan has an interest to work closely with the european union. the european union is pakistan’s second most important trading partner over the last ten years, and especially since 2014, when the generalised scheme of preference, a trade preferential assistance scheme, was awarded. since then, imports of the eu 27 from pakistan have almost doubled. trade and economy are key pillars of our cooperation, but beyond that there is a lot of unexploited potential for further cooperation under the strategic engagement plan, notably in security, given the important position of pakistan in the region. i look forward to hearing your views in the course of our debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, minister, commissioner, and not least pakistan ambassador khan, the heavy monsoon rains have triggered the most severe flooding in pakistan’s recent history, washing away lives and livelihoods and causing unprecedented damage to the infrastructure. the destruction could set the country back many years. pakistan is an important partner to the european union, and we must support them. firstly, to meet the enormous needs, we must work together with the international community to come forward with new aid and ensure an immense humanitarian response. secondly, we need to commit to long-term support and increase the impact of our development assistance in pakistan to speed up the colossal reconstruction that lies ahead. thirdly, we need to work together to tackle the climate change challenge and support pakistan in creating climate resilient infrastructure to prevent future disasters. this should be a global effort, but it is clear that the european union needs to take the lead. i know that many of my colleagues are at group meetings now, but i must be very clear: there is a broad support from the european parliament and we will be there for pakistan.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the terrible floods in pakistan are, of course, a clear example of an extreme weather event in a warmer climate. however, it is also, unfortunately, a clear example of an event where we can no longer just talk about climate adaptation. as we look ahead into this century, we're going to see more and more areas that we're actually no longer going to be able to save and restore. what we're seeing now is the effect of all the greenhouse gas emissions since industrialization. if we look at that number, we know that it's us here in europe, along with the united states, that's accounted for pretty much exactly 50 percent. we must now stand up and take responsibility for these historic emissions. the humanitarian aid that the eu has provided to pakistan so far is not enough. then pakistan is just one example. the eu must now, during and ahead of cop 27, stand up for more funding for climate adaptation, but also clearly for the funding of loss and damage. we have to admit that we have come to this.
mr president, this was racism embodied – racist when it goes from words to actions not by one person or a group, but structural and institutionalised. the dutch childcare benefit scandal is a frightening example that reveals deep—rooted prejudice in our union. the enormous consequence that the dutch tax authority’s illegal, artificial intelligence—driven racial profiling had on them and how it impacted their lives is terrifying. families ended up in poverty. some lost their homes and some lost their jobs because of prejudice. this is not george orwell’s animal farm, even though one may think so since some seem to be more equal than others in our union. but some of the affected are not any more with us to witness today, as this scandal has led to suicides. racism deprives people of their possibility to live a decent life, and society of the possibility to take good advantage of every and each citizen’s competence. in its worst form, racism kills. i am standing here today as the rapporteur for the report on racial justice, non—discrimination and anti—racism in the eu, which will be voted on in the libe committee on monday. in the report, we call on the eu to urgently move from words to actions in the fight against racism. we also highlight the importance of ensuring that necessary safeguards for fundamental rights and freedoms of data are in place for the use of ai tools. every corner in our union must be a safe space for all our people. the colour of our skin, our birthplace, our name, our hair colour – none of it should ever shape our possibility to fulfil our dreams and should never, ever deprive us of becoming full and respected citizens in our member states and of our union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in retaliation for ukraine attacking a legitimate military target, the crimean bridge, the russian federation unleashed a brutal bombardment against civilian targets across ukraine. terror is an integral part of the russian war strategy. but despite recent actions, as well as previous atrocities against the ukrainian civilian population by the russian federation, the leaders of this parliament last week voted against adding to this session’s agenda a debate and a resolution calling for the russian federation to be designated a state sponsor of terrorism. now, we conservatives would like to give all members present a chance to correct the record by supporting the ecr group proposal to debate and adopt a resolution during this part-session calling for member states to take action. i ask for your support for this proposal.
madam president, i appreciate the proposal put forward by colleague gahler and i would accept that.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you all for this very important debate. frontex fulfils a critically important task. its mission is to help member states protect the common european union external borders and to uphold fundamental rights in doing so. to achieve its objective, frontex must be a robust and well-functioning agency with the right governance and control systems in place, and it must have the right processes and staff at its disposal to uphold fundamental rights. i said this in the beginning of this debate and we from the commission side have been working intensively for many, many years to strengthen the governance, address shortcomings, and make sure that frontex has the proper processes and staff in place. they have appointed new fundamental rights officers. the fundamental rights monitors are in place. three new executive directors with strong mandates are in place. the new frontex mandate is in place and soon we will have the new executive director appointed after a thorough process that is now ongoing. more needs to be done – this is clear – to address all identified shortcomings. i trust the management board and the interim executive director, aija kalnaja, that are guiding the agency in the right direction. it is clear that severe misconduct by the former executive director and two other members of the management staff has been identified by the olaf report is extremely serious and that this has damaged the agency’s possibility to fulfil its duties. but let me also stress the obvious. we have courageous, good men and women that protect our external borders 24/7 in compliance with fundamental rights. protection of our external borders and protection of the fundamental rights goes hand-in-hand, and that is how thousands and thousands of border guards are practising their duties day and night.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of mr jörgen warborn, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on sustainable marine fuels (fueleu maritime initiative) (com (2021) 0562 - c9-0333/2021 - 2021/0210 (cod)) (a9-0233/2022) and the report by mr ismail ertug, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the development of alternative fuels infrastructure (com (2021) 0559 - c9-0331/2021 - 2021/0322 (cod)) (a9-0234/2022).
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, honourable colleagues, it is high time to advance the green transition of shipping. with a compromise adopted in the committee on transport and tourism (tran), we lay out the world’s by far most ambitious pathway to maritime decarbonisation. europe takes the frontrunner position in tackling emissions by creating demand for sustainable fuels and fostering innovation in green propulsion technologies. this is truly ground-breaking. never before has any global power drafted such a comprehensive and efficient framework for tackling maritime emissions. i am happy that after almost a year of in-depth dialogue with ports, ship-owners, trade unions, environmental organisations and fuel suppliers from all parts of europe, followed by intense negotiations in parliament, we now have a deal on the table. and not just any deal, a deal supported by an overwhelming majority in tran with the epp, s&d, renew, id and ecr, including, very importantly, the support from both our associated committees, envi and itre – a very broad majority of three committees and five political groups. our compromise is ambitious and it is realistic because, as responsible politicians, we have to take many perspectives into account. on climate, most importantly, but not just setting the most extreme targets that might look good on paper. instead, thinking about real enforceability, making sure things actually happen in reality. also thinking about social aspects, protecting jobs, because 75% of our exports go by ship. we secure connectivity for people living on islands, in coastal areas and in the outermost regions. we shield the most vulnerable families from rising prices. safeguarding the maritime sectors competitiveness, and making sure there won’t be carbon leakage and jobs leaving europe. in the negotiations in tran, my guiding principle was to ensure we get the biggest emissions savings possible per euro spent. we do that with an effective scope targetting 90% of maritime co2 emissions while shielding the very smallest ship-owners and ports from massive economic and bureaucratic burdens. we do it with the phase-in that is rapid but realistic so that we send a strong signal to the market to invest in green ships and ramp up the projections of rfnbos and biofuels, to deploy onshore power and invest in innovative wind propulsion. we do it with the target-oriented design where we set the pathway forward with strict greenhouse gas limits, but without micromanaging ship-owners or forcing them into some kind of ‘one-size-fits-all’. the deal before you ensures is that maritime climate targets are met rapidly and effectively, that europe becomes the benchmark for the rest of the world, that we actually change the way global shipping is powered, going green and making sure the innovation happens here. finally, i would like to express my gratitude to members and staff who were part of these negotiations, especially to my tran colleagues from epp, s&d, renew, id and ecr and the shadow rapporteurs from envi and itre who supported this agreement. i urge all colleagues in plenary to adopt our compromise and to reject all other amendments. let’s move this important and urgent file ahead. let’s go with confidence to trialogues with a strong and united parliament position.
member of the commission. – mr president, colleagues, honourable members, for a very interesting debate. i think i addressed at the beginning some of the amendments and questions you have around these two files. the debate was very interesting also. it shows that we are in the make of two very important legislative files. some have doubts. some would like more ambition. but i think we have to keep in mind that this is for the first time that we are acting on maritime decarbonisation. we have to keep in mind that both files have an industrial angle to it, and i hope that we will be able to create the right market for alternative fuels to be taken up in our sectors. so this being said, i would encourage the plenary to support these two files, solid compromises, and have, why not, a pragmatic approach to these two files, keeping in mind that of course, depending on how it goes, it can revise. the commission stands ready to support you in the negotiations with the council, as usual, and i am very confident that we will deliver together something very good for both sectors in transport and for our citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am reassured to hear such strong support for the road map we have drawn up between the committee on transport, the committee on industry and the committee on the environment. of course, as the commissioner says, there are a few negative votes, but the total seems to be overwhelmingly positive. unfortunately, we have become accustomed to negotiations, globally, which have resulted in very lofty objectives but then in empty promises. the major changes in reality have not happened, but the proposal we have on the table is something quite different. europe is taking active action to lead the transformation of shipping. this is the world's most ambitious maritime climate legislation. it is the only comprehensive, feasible and truly concrete plan to dramatically reduce the climate footprint of shipping. it is not enough to make the most grandiose promises if you cannot at the same time live up to them in practice. here's what we've done. we've been pointing with our whole hand where we're going. we guarantee the sector long-term rules of the game and predictability, so that they can dare to invest. we are designing the rules so that shipping companies and ports can focus their resources on the actions that deliver the most climate benefits and the most value for money. because that's how we're going to meet our climate goals quickly and efficiently. that's how we ensure that european consumers don't have to bear the entire world's climate costs. that is how we protect the jobs of seamen, dock workers and all those employed in the export industry. that's how we set an example for other countries to follow. the compromise proposal we have negotiated has the support of five political groups and the itre, envi and tran committees. i think it speaks for itself of the good balance we have found. i would urge my colleagues to support this compromise proposal on the table.
mr president, i would like to thank you. each year, the european parliament adopts such a communication on guidelines for the labour market policies of the member states. the point is to coordinate our economic policies. the commission's proposal for this year's decision focuses, for obvious reasons, on the consequences of russia's war in ukraine, not least the ongoing energy crisis. the right recommendations in the eu's planning window have the potential to create the conditions for more jobs and, in the long run, a more competitive and prosperous europe. that is why it is so sad to see, year after year, the european parliament's input on this issue being hijacked by the left groups in parliament, who instead choose to call on the european commission to take over more and more of the member states' competences. tomorrow we shall vote on a letter calling for a new directive on minimum incomes, i.e. a new common standard for social contributions. this is bad enough, but there is also the risk that common standards in the next stage will lead to calls for joint funding of these standards. the last thing the union's economy needs at the moment is transfers between the social security systems of the member states. it is regrettable that the left groups refuse to focus on what these messages are supposed to be about. we could have focused on recommendations to strengthen competitiveness in the difficult years ahead. but instead, the left's destructive line dominates, which is rather damaging to the planning deadline.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all the brave men and women from our countries who rushed to the defense of ukraine, and especially those who paid the ultimate price to defend the right of this small country to free itself from the clutches of imperialism. one of those who gave their lives for ukraine is my compatriot, lieutenant edward selander. he collapsed on july 18th. one of those who served under him in the swedish army has this to say, and i quote: lieutenant edvard selander was the finest officer i ever worked with. he embodied all the values we stand for as a defense force. no one was more concerned with creating capable warriors than he was, and he lived by an unerring moral compass. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to think of all those of our citizens who have sacrificed their lives for the security of ukraine and europe.
mr president, at least one in four will battle depression at some point in their life, and i’m one of the people that have done so. it’s likely that dozens of members of this chamber are going through it right now. politically, mental illness has been an area full of mistakes. member states have limited what therapies public health services can provide. there have been politically motivated regulations prohibiting research in psychedelics, even though it has the potential to treat patients that don’t respond to traditional treatments. there are many restrictions on the legal possibility for families to get care for loved ones that don’t have the capacity to ask for help themselves. people are often left alone to tackle the darkness of their mind due to overregulated mental health. i am convinced that we can learn from one another in europe to do this better. it is clear that we need more flexible care, closer to patients and their needs. but some of you want to regulate more when you need to deregulate, centralise when we need to decentralize. therefore, members of the left part of this parliament, i know that your instinct is to regulate every area that you care about, but i am begging you: this time, back off.
madam president, as the s&d shadow rapporteur for the afet and deve opinions, i would like to stress the importance of continuing to be a strong voice for democracy, human rights, rule of law and equality, especially in these times of backlash in the eu and beyond. it is important that the eu enhances its financial support for international partner organisations and ensure contribution is also made in core resources. it is important we step up our struggle to reach the sustainable development goals. we have only eight years left until 2030. the agenda 2030, with its 17 sdgs, contains our tools to save humanity. we need to conduct a feminist foreign and development policy in defence and support of women and girls worldwide. the bravery women and girls have shown, among other places, in iran, in afghanistan, and different parts of kurdistan demands our full support. the middle east and north africa are regions in need of extra support in order to turn backlash into progress. therefore, the support for unrwa and the palestinian authority is imperative. putin’s heinous aggression in ukraine is a hard reminder of that. we can’t take respect for international law and our multilateral systems for granted. we must defend it everywhere and at all times.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, representatives of the council, colleagues! schengen is without doubt one of the greatest gains we have with the eu. and when you ask our citizens what the point of the eu is, one of the first things they say is freedom of movement. that is what deeper cooperation means and what it leads to. it's this trust we have in each other when we do what we've decided to do. that's what it's gonna be: our citizens will benefit. but unfortunately, this freedom is constantly under attack and threatened in several member states, when short-term and cheap points are made by introducing and prolonging border controls in a vain attempt to show strength and authority. the resources to maintain these illegal border controls can be used in so many other ways. call me if you want tips on how to use them, instead of preventing ordinary swedes from going to denmark to work and earn a living. what is often forgotten is that these border controls are economically harmful to our border regions. i therefore call on the court of justice of the european union to put an end to these arbitrary and illegal border checks now.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. tonight, we have with us a young climate activist from kenya, elizabeth wathuti. we were a few who met with her yesterday and talked to her about the millions of people who are literally on the front lines of the climate crisis right now, the climate catastrophe -- people who are at risk of starvation, people who don't have access to anything as obvious as clean drinking water, and mothers who walk a mile every day to at least try to dig up some water from otherwise dried-up waterways -- and about the fact that those who have caused the least emissions are now at risk of suffering the most from the consequences. this is especially true of young women in poor parts of the world: this is really the heart of climate justice: generation, geography and gender. we must never forget those perspectives, nor must we ever forget or turn a blind eye to the fact that we in the rich world have caused more than half of the total emissions since industrialization. we often focus on emissions here and now, but what's causing climate change is total emissions, and that's where we in the rich world have to step up and take full responsibility. unfortunately, it's no longer enough to talk about climate change adaptation. we must now, especially at cop27, focus on 'loss and damage'. there, in the rich world, we must step forward and take full responsibility for what we have caused.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, colleagues, members of the public! the climate crisis is urgent. in november, the big climate summit cop27 will be held in egypt. it's happening in the shadow of russia's war on ukraine, skyrocketing energy prices and inflation. in a situation, we have to deal with many big, difficult issues at the same time. but we still have to stick to our climate pledges and do everything we can, because emissions have to come down. the eu is the world's leading environmental organisation, leading the way in many ways. but we need to sharpen our tools and work globally to reduce emissions. let's put in place a climate change threshold mechanism, a climate tax. ensure that global agreements are reached to end fossil fuel subsidies. use trade agreements to leverage climate responsibility, growth and technological development. we are in a dark time, but let the climate summit be a beacon of light and an opportunity to rejoice in concrete results. the world and the climate need good news.
mr president, i would like to thank you. our commissioner! even at today's 1.2 degrees of global warming, we are seeing major floods, heat waves and droughts. we are heading for 2.7 degrees of warming, and that is devastating both for our nature, for vulnerable groups and for a peaceful and secure world. it's urgent now. we need to raise our targets at cop27. the eu must lead the way, showing how solar, wind, water and biogas reduce emissions, costs and dependence on russia. to achieve this, to achieve ambitious and sustainable agreements, women must also have a seat at the negotiating table. women and children are the ones who suffer the most from the consequences of the climate crisis. women and children are also the most climate-smart people in everyday life. let cop27 be the turning point where young women's voices and leadership for climate are taken seriously.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner johansson, i have to ask you to leave. they still have nightmares, and right now they say they never want to return to ukraine. these words come from a mother from ukraine who fled with her children to sweden. since the war began, the children of ukraine have been subjected to things that no child should have to experience. in march, we social democrats made clear demands to protect children who are suffering in war. it is extremely positive that commissioner johansson is taking this matter so seriously. preventing the abduction of children or their exposure to violence or trafficking is fundamental to the european union. it is about the human rights of children, and that we as adults live up to our responsibilities. it's about all children all children have the right to a safe and loving upbringing. thank you, ylva.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner johansson, colleagues, in the past decades, the russian federation has attempted to re-establish regional hegemony. russia inspires terror by murdering countless civilian victims, by indiscriminate targeting in chechnya, georgia, syria and ukraine. russia relishes instability by supporting and financing terrorist regimes and organisations in the middle east and latin america. russia’s closest allies syria, cuba, north korea and iran, are also sponsors of terrorism. colleagues, we cannot, on the one hand, condemn and sanction russia, while on the other continuing to entertain any delusion that the regime in moscow can be a reliable partner, whether on climate, trade or regional stability. that world is dead and gone. will it ever come back during our lifetime? i don’t think so. colleagues, the ukrainian parliament has appealed to countries to declare the russian regime a terrorist state. latvia, lithuania and estonia have shown leadership by heeding this call, and the eu parliament should call for other eu member states to follow their example. it is time to recognise the russian federation for what it is: a pariah, a menace, a rogue state and a state sponsor of terrorism. and that recognition must come with consequences.
madam president, madam commissioner, colleagues, the devil can only play god if we do not dare to call him the devil. well, we have a duty towards all people that have got their homes destroyed and all people that have been killed at the hands of putin to call him out. yes, through actions, but also through words, because words pave the way for actions. the putin russian regime is a terrorist state and is a state sponsor of terrorism. if the aggression on ukraine, violation of other states’ territorial integrity and sovereignty and the cold blooded killing of dissenters are not grounds enough to be called out for state sponsored terrorism and being a terrorist state, i do not know what would be. putin and his allies as khomeini in iran have oppressed and killed for decades. and maybe have they never, ever thought that they will meet counter forces. but the people of ukraine and people of whole iran have shown that they are stronger than the oppressors. people power is stronger than devil power. let’s call putin’s regime for what it is – a state terror and state sponsor of terrorism.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the theft league is back, the enterprise association is alerting. machine shops are being ransacked, boat owners are losing their engines, elderly people are being robbed. what are the commission and the european parliament doing? yes, they are demanding the accession of romania and bulgaria to schengen. so far, liberals in the netherlands, finnish christian democrats and even merkel have blocked it. it is not surprising that the swedish social democrats want to open the motorway to the thieves' leagues. but that the moderates, who went to the polls under the slogan 'hello, thieves', today voted to demand the abolition of border controls for bulgarian and romanian citizens is surprising and worrying to say the least. instead, the interests of ordinary swedes should be put first. it's just to follow the liberal call of the gothenburg post: don't open the last door for the romanian thieves. that's why we swedish democrats voted no.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission, the council! democracy, peace and freedom - these are three values that are self-evident to our union. since russia launched its brutal war against ukraine, our task of defending these values has become more important than ever. we are in the most serious security situation in a long, long time, and it requires that we continue to impose strong sanctions against russia's unacceptable behaviour and that we fully support ukraine in word and deed. while we also have to deal with the ongoing energy crisis, we must be able to think long term. democracy, peace and security, as well as equality, gender equality and sustainable development for future generations - these are the goals and values that bind us together and that the eu will never, ever, lay its finger on, either in acute crises or in our long-term work for the future.
madam president, the recovery fund, aka ‘death generation eu’, almost doubled the eu’s expenses. that fund cures economic hangovers like vodka helps an alcoholic start his day. it sets a dangerous precedent – just impose the costs of the next crisis to the eu level. you claim recovery, but all you did was pile more debt on already over—indebted economies and misallocated funds to brussels pet projects. the italian and french commissioners are having a field day. they’re already clamouring for the next round of handouts, or, to quote ursula von der leyen herself, ‘more european funding’. you love to hear those words, don’t you? and who will pay for those new eu taxes to fund this debt—addicted party? sven svensson. before you come back for another handout, you should cut inefficient subsidy programmes and redistributed funds, because if you don’t, sven svensson won’t only refuse to pay the next tab, he’ll walk out the bar. and don’t be shocked if mette nielsen and juha mäkinen walk out with him too.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the members and staff who have contributed to the negotiations. we can be proud of this joint success, where europe is now taking the lead in the transformation of shipping. this is by far the most ambitious legislation in the world to dramatically reduce the climate footprint of shipping. we do this in a balanced and feasible way, ensuring that we are able to cope with both the climate and the competitive situation. i hereby request, in accordance with rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, that the matter be referred back to the committee responsible for interinstitutional negotiations.
madam president, dear colleagues, in accordance with rule 59(4)(4), i ask you as the rapporteur responsible to refer back the dossier to the tran committee for the institutional negotiations.
that concludes the vote. the sitting was suspended at 13.02.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection to that? that's not the case. the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been approved.
the next item is the debate on a topical and urgent subject (rule 162) on the promotion of anti-european right-wing extremism in the eu (2022/2887 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words in this debate and that no blue cards will be accepted. i would simply ask that all those who are not taking part in this debate leave the chamber quickly and, above all, that they end their private conversations on the way out.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very sad to have to hold this debate, but i think it is essential and that is why our group has proposed it. no one in our countries would accept a coup d'état, but some in the european union are normalizing the daily deterioration of our democratic systems, the separation of powers and freedom of the press. these government alliances that we are seeing between conservative parties, and now also liberals, with far-right parties whitewash attitudes that cross any red line. the problem is not that they are ultraconservative parties; that is part of political pluralism. it is also not a problem that they do not believe in a united europe, because eurosceptics also have the right to be represented in this house, more would be needed. the problem is that right-wing populisms undermine institutions, use democracy to weaken freedoms and rights. when they enter institutions, they use them for their own interests. a parliamentary majority does not justify laws that persecute minorities, violate their rights and undermine the legal and coexistence framework that has been in force for seventy years. liberal democracy implies acceptance of political pluralism, cultural diversity, respect for minorities and the rule of law. you can be very conservative by respecting these principles. this should be our red line. it was until the epp and renew decided to split and open the doors to parties like vox, the swedish democrats, alternative for germany, the league and the brothers of italy. we can call them whatever we want, neo-fascists, post-fascists, right-wing populists... the name is the least of it. we all know what we're talking about, even if some of us don't want to see it. we are talking about those who ask for proof of their ancestry in order to enjoy citizenship rights, because they distinguish between 'real swedes' or 'real french', as le pen does, and those who may have been born in another country, or are the children of immigrants, or may be muslims, or not have white skin. we are talking about those who link immigration with crime and would like to return to a national europe of pure ethnicities, as viktor orbán said. these are the people who want to go back to the past, to a europe of borders, and not just physical borders, because the worst borders are those in our minds. they are the ones who deny that women are killed for the mere fact of being women and cut the budgets against gender violence. his friends in the states are trump players like steve bannon. they are bolsonaro's friends. they are putin's friends. let's not make a mistake: liberal democracy may not be the perfect system and we have to work constantly to improve it, but destroying what we have built together only leads to polarization and the inability to reach agreements. formal democracy is not enough. a democratic spirit and a deep respect for pluralism are fundamental to coexistence. the post-war consensus to build the first communities was based on the firm conviction that there was no place in europe for autocratic leaders or racist ideologies. we have historically worked on this consensus, the christian democrats, the social democrats and the liberals. we have just concluded the conference on the future of europe to reflect on how we are progressing. that is still the only firm foundation on which to build this common home, which is not a balance of power between nations. that europe of nations anchored in the past never existed for the far right. conservative gentlemen, liberal gentlemen, come back to our common home to continue building a future of peace and democracy.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, vice-president of the commission. fundamental rights and freedoms, political and media pluralism, the rule of law and free, fair and transparent elections are key elements of our democracies. while participation in politics can take many shapes, political parties remain at the core of political life and play an essential role in engaging citizens and in promoting a healthy confrontation between different – sometimes opposing – views of society and the economy. protecting an open and transparent political system, free from hostile interferences, is a challenge that should compel all of us to take action. this is also a task for the eu as a whole, and has led the czech presidency to make the resilience of democratic institutions one of its key priorities. to begin with, i can reaffirm that the czech presidency is fully committed to working with this house to reach a political agreement on the revision of the regulation on the statute and financing of european political parties and foundations by the end of this year. this proposal is one of the two main elements of the reinforcing democracy and integrity of elections package, presented by the commission, which aims to strengthen european democracy. the revised regulation will increase the visibility of european political parties and strengthen their transparency requirements. in particular, the council believes that the crucial element to limiting the risks of foreign interference in our electoral processes is to restrict the possibility of contributions to european political parties only to member states, to member parties from the european union. we are also fully committed to making progress on another key proposal on the transparency and targeting of political advertising. this proposal aims to increase transparency and accountability on political advertising and to reveal the mechanisms behind the targeting and amplification techniques used in political advertising. it also covers campaigning activities at all levels, including cross-border campaigning activities, which are clearly of particular interest to this house. the czech presidency is working with a view to finding an agreement within the council by the end of this year to allow for negotiations with the parliament to start as soon as possible. any interference in our political processes is unacceptable, particularly in the current geopolitical climate, and in the run up to the 2024 european parliament election. any false narratives, including anti-european ones, information manipulation and interference in our democracies cannot, and should not, be tolerated. let me be clear on this point: our fight against disinformation does not aim at suppressing diverging views, for instance, on the goals and directions of european integration. but our societies deserve to be able to make their own properly informed decisions, whether it is on health matters, on the political parties they choose to vote for, or on global events that directly or indirectly impact their lives. the council closely follows new initiatives by the commission in this area and is actively involved in the implementation of existing ones, such as the strengthened code of practice on disinformation. we look forward to even more ambitious actions based on the whole of society approach, as we must all be together in this fight against propaganda and information manipulation. before concluding, let me stress once again our determination to protect scrupulously our core democratic values from any hostile interference, foreign or otherwise. thank you very much once again for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, honourable minister, thank you for organising this debate. democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights are the foundations on which the european union is built. and we know that democracy needs to be nurtured, needs to be protected, besides others, against the powers that seek to destroy it. this is why we adopted the european democracy action plan to protect free and fair elections, to fight disinformation and to protect media freedom. and we move further. president von der leyen announced in this year’s state of the union address a defence of democracy package. this will include a legislative initiative to protect our democracies from entities funded by or linked to third countries that may impact public opinion and the democratic sphere. the defence of democracy package will also be the occasion to review our actions under the european democracy action plan, and this will come just in time, a year ahead of the elections to the european parliament, an important moment in our democracy. in order to preserve free and fair elections, the commission presented in november 2021 legislative proposals on the transparency and targeting of political advertising and non—legislative measures to strengthen cooperation on electoral resilience. i am glad that these proposals are currently being discussed in the european parliament and the council and i hope trilogues can soon start so we can have them in place well ahead of the next european parliament elections. they will strengthen the integrity of our political processes and their resilience to interference and contribute to combating disinformation and extremism through high transparency standards. we are convinced that people must know why they are seeing a political ad, who paid for it, how much, what micro—targeting criteria were used. new technologies should be tools for emancipation, not for hidden manipulation. let me also add a few words on the political extremism, which affects heavily our societies and which can lead to violence and murder, as we shockingly witnessed last week in slovakia. the russian military aggression against ukraine offered violent extremist movements an opportunity to create divisive narratives and to exploit them with the aim of boosting anti—european sentiments. we know that russia supports white supremacists and other extremist right—wing groups on a global scale, encouraging them with propaganda, instrumentalising their discourses and thus sowing polarisation, also in the european societies. the war has also had an impact on the extreme left and anarchist-wing infosphere. its narratives attract the attention of non—violent militants and focus on crucial issues related to the nature and logic of the war. the commission is working with member states to tackle the threat of violent right—wing extremism in the eu, including via europol, which is in close contact with the member states’ authorities and partner agencies to continuously engage and exchange information and gather intelligence to draw up assessments of the terrorist and right—wing extremist threats.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, minister, what is it? independent courts, freedom of the press, women's rights - all these are part of the core values to be defended across europe. we got a problem. we see that we have great challenges in hungary, we see it in poland, we see it in malta. we have issues that we need to deal with. now the social democrats of europe are trying to make sweden look like a big problem. you attack sweden and the new government. but, colleagues, there is zero substance to this. the government's declaration presented in sweden aims to strengthen the independence of the courts. women's rights are to be strengthened. independent media must be strengthened. - of course you are. of course in sweden. but we're also going to have a government that's going to address the social problems that we have with crime, that's going to make sure that we have an energy policy, and that's going to make sure that we reduce exclusion. i would like to address my swedish colleagues in this house in particular. sweden's presidency will begin shortly, on 1 january. it is very important that we come together now, because europe is facing great challenges. it's time for you to accept this election loss. democracy is not the same as a vote for the social democrats, the left or the greens. it's time to show some responsibility. we should criticize where we see problems and where governments are acting wrong. but to try to put labels that have no substance on this government, it's actually not honorable.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. ideas are like energy. they don't disappear, they change. our responsibility is to understand which ideas are the conditions for life and community, and which ideas are the causes of division, which build suspicion between people, which lead to hatred, which slowly but surely destroy. the nationalist ideas that were allowed to grow and develop in the early 20th century, and that ended in the holocaust, still exist. in today's eu, they are worn by the far right. but, as then, so today, they are aided by conservative and liberal politicians, who, blinded by their own gain, believe they can tame monsters. right-wing populism seduces politicians with a light-hearted approach. we see it in italy, we see it in hungary, in croatia and sadly also in sweden - the country that will soon take over the presidency of the eu. to avoid having to repeat our history, we must know it. we need to understand how one leads to the other, and those of us who want to be on the right side of history must have the courage to make uncomfortable decisions. we must dare to defend what we know will give our children a future to look forward to, and we must push hard against any steps in the opposite direction. and it has to be done now. it should have been done by now. we don't have a second to lose.
mr president, commission and council! the swiss democrats have a nationalist background and a past that is deplorable. they stand for things i don't stand for. they have a different view of culture and gender equality. their story is really sick. the words come from the leader of the swedish liberal party, johan pehrson, in a television interview. the same party, the liberals, has now made a deal with this extreme right-wing party, the sweden democrats. an agreement that means that the sweden democrats with their far-right agenda now dictate the terms of the new swedish government in which the liberals are included. what was unthinkable a few years ago for the right-wing parties and the liberals, to cooperate with the far right, has become accepted and normal, to the extent of disregarding their own policies. because the liberals had a choice, a crucial choice, and they chose to give power to the far right. i never, ever thought that this could happen in my country, sweden. the liberals in sweden should be ashamed. the swedish liberals have now opened the door to cooperation with the ecr. are we going to walk the same path in this house? renew, it's your turn. you have to be clear. you have to make your choice. we have challenges in the eu, where we must stick together. and for us social democrats it is a matter of course to protect our fundamental values and not to give the extreme right more influence than it already has by being elected to parliament. i hope that both the epp and renew understand the seriousness of this issue. an example in sweden is that the new government has already scrapped the well-known feminist foreign policy. it's just the beginning.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when i was in the swedish parliament, there was a debate on democracy in the swedish parliament, and then johan pehrson, the chairman of the liberal party, ran into the plenary when a member of the swedish democrats said that white people are more comfortable with democracy than people like me, who come from the middle east. then johan pehrson rushed in and took a stand against this racist claim. from the anger that johan pehrson felt then, to today sitting in a government with the sweden democrats in the driver's seat, where they decide. an anti-democratic party is in charge, and johan pehrson is so happy about this cooperation. i wonder what happened? we haven't changed. we are still standing up for liberal democracy, for human rights, for cooperation, for international solidarity. what's the matter, man? well, the established parties, they're the ones that have changed by first saying, "but they're right about certain things", then they adopt certain policies to win political points, and eventually they're in the same government. it's our indifference, that's when these forces are let in. no, that's enough!
mr president, colleagues, anti-democratic and anti-european extreme—right forces are being normalised by conservatives and liberals. the latest examples are in sweden and italy. we live in an era of access to information, but some seem to have forgotten their history. the history that we were supposed to prevent from repeating itself; the same history that led to the creation of the european union. our union is supposed to be a counterforce against all those forces trying to play machiavelli through dividing and conquering. something rotten has happened in the eu and the member states the last years. the keys to the governments are by conservatives and liberals being handed out to those shouting ‘jews are not a problem as long as they are few. muslims are our biggest foreign threat and those seeing the rainbow flag as a threat’. yes, this is a reality in my country, sweden. in a time of increased hatred, we should roll up our sleeves and raise our voices against it, not normalise it. as the children’s book author astrid lindgren wrote in her book the brothers lionheart, there were things that had to be done, even if it was dangerous. otherwise, you are not a human being. you are just a piece of dirt. colleagues, let’s raise our voice against fascism and nazism, not normalise it.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, as you know, since the very first day of this commission, we have taken enlargement to be our political priority. the report on it demonstrates that this is not just empty words, as it was said here by some, but this is delivering results now, because it is the eu’s strategic interest to get the western balkans fully integrated within the european union. only this can give us long—term stability, peace and prosperity, not only in the western balkans but also in the european union. now, i noted three questions. first of all, i want to thank this house for the support for the candidate status of bosnia and herzegovina. this is a very important political decision, an offer, if you will, to the people of bosnia and herzegovina. and i do hope that i can continue to count on the support of this house. of course, much needs to be done still and in that, of course, the electoral reform is an urgent priority as it is very clearly established in our report. my answer to mr dzhambazki is that we are following closely what has happened, and i understand that there are police proceedings ongoing. and, of course, we are not in a position to comment on these proceedings. however, i want to underline that, of course, article 2 of the treaty continues to apply as a criteria for becoming a member. and, finally, an answer to mr rzońca. this is not the time to discuss the possible impact but let me give you the perspective. the entire region is 18 million people. and we are a region of 450. the entire region will not be integrated on the same day. so, i think that the impact on, for example, the cap should not be something we shouldn’t be able to address.
that concludes the debate. the next point on our agenda is the commission statement on: fighting sexualised violence – the importance of the istanbul convention and a comprehensive proposal for a directive against gender-based violence.
i am glad to see commissioner dalli with us, i will give her immediately the floor. commissioner, the floor is yours.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, fighting sexualised violence and the importance of the istanbul convention and the comprehensive proposal for a directive against gender-based violence is what we are discussing today. the scale of sexualised violence and violence against women in europe is very high. one in three women in the european union has experienced physical and or sexual violence, and one in twenty women has been raped. reports and personal accounts indicate that rape and sexualised violence are being used as weapons of war in ukraine. about one in five europeans hold victim—blaming views, claiming that women make up or exaggerate claims and that violence against women is often provoked by the victim. we cannot, of course, tolerate this and must take a stance and end victim—blaming and rape culture. excusing aggressive behaviour and shaming those who speak out about their experience has desensitised society to the horrors of rape and sexual assault. in the eu, 27% of people think that sexual intercourse without consent could be justified under certain circumstances, such as when the victim is drunk or when the victim does not clearly say no, or when the victim does not physically fight back. but these can never be considered as consent. this is why the commission put forward a legislative proposal on combating violence against women and domestic violence. the proposal contains a host of measures to ensure that we protect victims from sexualised violence and prevent it from happening in the first place. it also proposes the introduction of a harmonised definition of rape based on the lack of consent. only a yes is yes. immediate specialised support is particularly important in cases of sexualised violence. the proposal would ensure that victims have immediate access to rape, crisis or sexual violence centres. victims of sexualised violence are often confronted with insensitive or gender—stereotypical treatment during law enforcement proceedings. this can have serious consequences in terms of secondary victimisation and ultimately denies these victims the right to justice. training sessions for law enforcement officials and judges are therefore of the utmost importance. the commission’s proposal further seeks to prohibit judges from asking unnecessary and possibly traumatising questions about the victim’s sexual history. the proposal further seeks to prevent gender-based violence, including sexualised violence, by ensuring that awareness—raising campaigns aim to dispel harmful gender stereotypes. the measures i just mentioned are only a selection of those included in this comprehensive proposal, which covers the criminalisation of certain offences amounting to violence against women, the protection, support and access to justice for victims of violence against women and domestic violence, and the prevention of such forms of violence. parliament’s full support is needed as a co-legislator to make sure we now introduce harmonised and comprehensive provisions and take a united stand against gender-based violence. the proposal is modelled on the council of europe’s istanbul convention, which has proven to be a comprehensive legal instrument to prevent and combat gender-based and domestic violence and protect the victims. so i stress here again, as already stated in the commission’s gender equality strategy, that we remain committed to the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention. the istanbul convention is our international standard and engagement to which the eu wants to live up, just as we do to other international texts, such as the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. we are counting on the council to make sure that the eu now finalises accession to the convention, following the eu’s signature in 2017.
owing to technical problems concerning interpreting, the speaker is invited to repeat the final part of her speech.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, threats, it never ends. year after year, decade after decade, century after century, in all societies, in all classes of society. gender-based violence should have been written into history in a modern age like ours, but patriarchy is here and now and it wants something else. in the home, even in politics, in schools, on the streets and squares, in war but also in peace, women and girls are subject to violence: sexual, physical, psychological, financial and digital. it is estimated that one in three women in the eu has been a victim of violence, and more than one in five has been a victim of violence in close relationships. many of us women, including those in this parliament, have lived or are living in this reality. it happens both offline and online. the abominable violence is not a natural phenomenon. girls aren't born under pink blankets and boys aren't born under blue blankets. it's something we're forced to do. the inequality that is rooted in patriarchy can be relegated to history, but it requires both the courage and the will of each and every one of us here: the courage to stand up against injustice and the will to achieve an equal society. we women, girls, lgbtq people and all those who live with hate, threats and violence on a daily basis, we've had enough. change is no longer a maybe, it's a must. it is painful that the eu still has six countries, bulgaria, the czech republic, hungary, lithuania, latvia and slovakia, which have not yet ratified the istanbul convention, which is the first legally binding regional instrument on violence against women in europe. now, for the first time, the eu has taken a comprehensive approach with concrete measures to tackle one of the greatest problems of our time. the eu's introduction of such a strong and comprehensive legislative proposal as the directive to combat violence by men against women and violence in close relationships is historic. i will do my best, as co-rapporteur, together with my colleague mr fitzgerald, to strengthen it further. it is our duty to women and girls to end the violence, to end the killing. we must work on prevention by starting at an early age. we must support the victims and we must end the impunity that exists.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, it is estimated that 50 women are killed every week in the european union as victims of gender-based violence. one every six hours. in my own country, spain, 34 women have been killed so far as a result of gender-based violence. this is the ultimate expression of violence against women, the tip of an iceberg that hides mistreatment, sexual assault, harassment, cyberviolence, trafficking, violation of sexual and reproductive rights and sexual violence. violence is increasing year by year in our countries. we are seeing how in ukraine they turn women's bodies into a battlefield. and yet, in the face of this drama, we are seeing the growth of anti-gender movements, those movements that deny gender violence, that trivialize sexual violence. in the face of this, we cannot be complacent or inactive. we have to fight them. and so, in this legislature we have to achieve two great historical milestones, if i may say so. the council should ratify the istanbul convention. the court of justice of the european union has made it clear that there are no legal excuses for not doing so, only political excuses. the council should ratify the istanbul convention. and we must adopt a directive on combating gender-based violence that equally protects all women in the european union and does not leave a place of impunity for murderers and perpetrators of crimes against women.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, just because someone calls himself a defender of women does not mean that he is one. look at the results. in the face of the drama of violence, let's look at the causes: alcoholism, addictions, emotional disorders, hedonism... radical cultural ideas that denigrate women. to foster respect, we must educate in virtues, build healthy and orderly bonds, not hypersexualize society or objectify people. gender ideology stigmatizes and criminalizes the male in a widespread way. it is an unfair topic that destroys real equality between men and women, and it causes fear and mistrust. and it also prevents us from recognizing the real aggressors. those who commit these acts must be prosecuted, not left unpunished, so that they can no longer be a threat to their victims. women in this situation need social services that are involved, that give them real solutions: deep, psychological, emotional, spiritual support, according to their specific needs. resources are now being wasted on the way to funding associations and activist ngos that do not help and, instead, do generate social confrontation. often the attention given to women is limited to offering them the inhuman option of abortion. ideological laws, such as the so-called "yes is yes" in spain, far from protecting women, are distorting criminal types and devaluing penalties. this is not the woman he's covering up for, but the real aggressors.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in europe, at this very moment, there are horrific abuses of ukrainian women and children, with russian soldiers using rape and murder as weapons of warfare. in iran, women are fighting for their right to live in freedom, in a country where violence against women in the home and marital rape are allowed. in a world like this, the eu must lead the way and show that the fight against oppression, against violence against women, is a fight for freedom, for human rights, for equality. if the eu is to be a credible actor in women's rights, we must also act here at home, because for far too long violence against women has been neglected in the member states. physical and sexual violence affects one in three women in the eu. it's over now. we now have a chance to make a real difference in the freedom issue of our time. by criminalising violence against women, by implementing the istanbul convention throughout the eu, we can use powerful means to really push back against violence. commissioner, it is time to go from words to action, to show that we are serious, that women's rights are human rights.
madam president, commissioner, there is no free ukraine without a free belarus, and vice versa. the destinies of ukraine, europe and belarus are interconnected, and therefore it is equally important to enforce the support of ukraine’s defence and, at the same time, enforce the support to the democratic movement in belarus, because belarussians don’t support the war. yet, belarus is participating in the war. the russian military constantly launches missile strikes on civilian facilities in ukraine from belarussian territory. if the leader of belarus were sviatlana tsikhanouskaya, if the leader were the one that the belarussian people wanted and voted for, then belarus would not be part of the war. this is why the eu must do everything in our power to ensure the democratic transition in belarus. i ask the commission to redouble its efforts to support democratic society in belarus. to the belarusian people: i stand in solidarity with you, who are being held hostage by the lukashenko regime. you deserve to live in a sovereign, free and democratic country. you deserve peace and safety.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in times of war and economic crisis, unfortunately it is always culture that pays first, so we must show the utmost solidarity with the artists who are victims of war. i come from a region, the south of italy, rich in art and culture, which means that there are endless possibilities for economic recovery linked to the artistic, historical and monumental heritage. the objective would also meet the priority of the recovery and resilience facility, which aims at reducing the territorial gap. we must therefore look at the cutting of the east-west line due to the war as a necessity to strengthen and strengthen instead the line that goes from north to south and looks at africa, abandoning the idea of a colonial model once and for all. the mezzogiorno region of italy, thanks to its central location between europe, africa and the middle east, can offer the role of a cultural and commercial hub for the entire european union. so, commissioner dalli, i hope that we will not miss this great opportunity for the european union again.
madam president, russia’s illegal, unprovoked and terrible war against ukraine has seriously worsened the security landscape of europe and threatened the rules-based order. russia is, as we speak, bombing ukrainian citizens and brutally killing civilians, killing children. russia is also attacking and destroying important parts of ukrainian cultural heritage: works of art, monuments and unesco world heritage sites that are part of ukrainian identity and part of our common history. to destroy cultural heritage on purpose is a war crime committed by putin and russia. we should help to protect and restore ukrainian cultural heritage, hold russia accountable, and help ukraine to fight the fight against russia. every russian attack against ukraine is an attack against europe, an attack against european freedom, an attack against european peace and an attack against european values. we need to do everything we can to support ukraine and to give financial and military support all the way. responsibility for this war lies solely with russia, and our message must be clear: russia, it’s time to get out of ukraine.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we have come to the point of no return in our relationship with the iranian regime. the islamic regime in iran is barbaric and brutal. it despises everything that we defend. the iranian people ask for freedom. they ask for respect and dignity. the iranian people ask for their fundamental human rights to be recognised, but the islamic regime would go to any length to crush the people’s strive for freedom – detention, violence, torture and now mass executions. the iranian parliament has moved to execute all the tens of thousands of protesters arrested over the last two months. more than 14 000 people – 14 000 people! we must do everything in our power to support the iranian people. the iranian people deserve to live in a free, stable, inclusive and democratic country and we must ensure that they trust in our support. therefore, we must put all the iranian parliamentarians who voted for mass executions on our sanction list. we must suspend all political negotiations with iran, including the jcpoa, because we cannot negotiate with murderers. i ask the commission to stop legitimising the repression of mandatory veiling in iran. please stop all campaigns saying things like ‘freedom is in hijab’. please, everyone in this house and the commission and the council, now we have to stand united and stand with the people of iran.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! the increase in energy prices has increased russia's fossil fuel revenues from the eu by over 100 billion euros. repowereu must be used to break the fossil fuel dependency, because putin will know that it is a stop to more fossil fuel revenues from the eu. that is why it is so important that the whole of the eu rapidly increases renewable energy production. we need wind, sun and sustainable biogas. i see a great potential for replacing fossil gas with green, renewable biogas throughout europe. that is why i welcome the compromise. by not creating new allowances in the emissions trading system, we also save five years of, for example, swedish emissions. we are also clearly shifting our focus away from fossil gas and towards renewables, which is good. we need to have higher ambitions for the climate.
the committee on foreign affairs has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner, what is it? colleagues and audience! when we act, we can take responsibility and make sustainable choices. price, labels, and common sense will do the trick, but not the whole thing. a nice sweater can be made with really ugly methods. corruption is invisible, but it costs, in the form of reduced tax revenues, more expensive goods, and a lack of respect for laws and regulations. in a global economy, value chains are long and complex, but no further than, with the right tools, you can track and trace the content. finally, companies must take responsibility for ensuring that the goods sold at all stages are produced with fundamental respect for human rights and the protection of the environment and health and that there has been no bribery in any business model. that responsibility cannot be placed solely on us as individual consumers or public purchasers. it also requires corporate responsibility and modern, up-to-date sustainability reporting.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president of the commission! it started as an activity for a few insiders, but in a few decades it has become a common medium used by one in two people aged between 6 and 64 in the eu. we see it on smartphones, computers, and game consoles. computer games and esports have become a huge industry, and these developments deserve our full attention. i therefore welcome the fact that we are raising this issue here in the european parliament for the first time. it is about how we in the eu can support growth and innovation. but it is also about the challenges, i.e. ensuring inclusion and tolerance, fighting harassment and hatred, which often affect girls and women who play, and ensuring that more women come into the sector and that we have more diversity. in conclusion, i would like to thank our rapporteur, laurence farreng, for the excellent and constructive work he has done on this report. it is simply a very, very good report.
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, first and foremost i want to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the very fruitful and successful discussions and agreements reached. i am happy that we will be able to say to all the people of our union that they matter and that democratic political groups here in this parliament care. i am proud to be able to say that we are on the right side of history and that we do not look away when people are facing human rights violations because racism is not an opinion: it is a crime; it is a human rights violation. colleagues, exactly 84 years ago, the night between 9 and 10 november 1938 embodies racism in its worst form, anti-semitism. if we close our eyes and listen very carefully, we still hear echoes from a dark chapter in our european history, a period of our history that we must do everything in our power to ensure never repeats itself. we owe the victims of the horrific holocaust to never forget. we are obliged to act. the eu is built on the notion that nobody is free before everybody is free. our union exists as a counter force against hate and all those striving for polarisation and trying to divide our communities. to those undemocratic forces i want to say we will do everything to ensure you are forever consigned to the dustbin of history. friends, the former swedish prime minister olof palme’s words from 1965 are still relevant today. he said: ‘we like to think of ourselves as open minded and tolerant, but it is yet not that simple. prejudice does not need to be anchored in some hideous theories. it has much simpler origins. prejudice always has its roots in everyday life. it grows in the workplace and in the neighbourhood. it is an expression of one’s own failure and disappointments. it is, above all, an expression of ignorance and fear: ignorance of other people’s uniqueness; fear of losing a position, a social privilege, a pre-emptive right. a person’s skin colour, race, language and place of birth have nothing to do with human qualities. grading people with such standards is in stark contrast to the principle of the equal value of people. ’ friends, we still face a reality today in the eu where our people are victims of racism, discrimination and harassment. reports of the european union agency for fundamental rights highlight that discrimination and harassment is a daily reality all over the european union. minorities face racism in the eu every day. in the five years preceding the respective surveys, 41% of roma, 45% of persons with a north african background, 39% of sub-saharan africans, 60% of roma and travellers and 25% of jews felt discriminated against because of their ethnic or immigrant backgrounds. harassment due to ethnic or immigrant backgrounds was common for one in four muslim respondents. of these individuals, nearly half suffered six or more incidents during the year prior to the study. racism is a threat to our european democracy and violates human rights. racism and discrimination kills, deprives people of their fundamental rights, and deprives society from fully enjoying the competence and experience of all our citizens. it is time to go from words to actions. it is time to implement the motto of the european union: ‘united in diversity’. it’s not only about uniting the states and countries: it is about uniting our people to ensure that we end all the discrimination, hatred and violence that they are facing every year, every month, every week, every day.
mr president, i would like to thank you. racism and discrimination are a reality that affects people's entire lives - their upbringing, their education, their opportunities and their everyday lives. but racism does not affect only individuals. it affects us all, entire communities and entire countries. racism is the obstacle to progress. there are those who live and act in the belief that racism is not a problem. they're wrong. all the research and all our history shows that. allowing racist ideas to influence the politics of a country, as is happening in the eu, including sweden, is stupid. it's a short-term, expensive gain for a few. racism is destructive. it destroys. that is why we will continue to fight it, everywhere and at all times.
rapporteur. – mr president, i’m not surprised that the far right here in the parliament gave their intervention and just left this room. this shows what they stand for, and i’m not surprised that the far right are talking against this important report that demands action to end the human rights violations, to end racism that still exists in 2022 in our union. it is actually their horrific ideology we are talking about today, an ideology that must be consigned to the dustbin of history. in hungary, in july, prime minister viktor orbán made an abhorrent speech criticising the mixing of european and non-european races. last week, in france, a far right mp was temporarily suspended from the assemblée nationale after shouting go back to africa when a black mp was speaking during the debate on migration. the leader of the sweden democrats in sweden has said that muslims are our biggest foreign threat. this shows that racism is here and now and present. the eu was built to prevent these kinds of views from winning ground. the eu was built to prevent these people from repeating history. colleagues, i expected the far right not to be here today or that they would only have their interactions and leave, but i didn’t expect that the council wouldn’t be here with us today, and that is very shameful. i want, however, to thank commissioner helena dalli for being with us today and showing leadership in the commission against these heinous violations of human rights and crimes that are taking place in our union. i’m happy that we have the first ever anti-racism action plan in place in the eu. however, it needs to reach or be prolonged to post—2025 and it right now lacks proper follow-up mechanisms and measurable targets. we need to strengthen it. it is a shame that only 12 member states in the european union have national action plans against racism in place. they are to be in place before the end of 2022, but only 12 have until now adopted them. and i also want to recall the long-standing call by the ep for the adoption of a horizontal anti-discrimination directive that has been blocked in the eu since 2008. and finally, colleagues, structural problems require a structural solution. let’s now move from words to actions. let’s implement the motto of the european union – united in diversity – fully.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! nowhere in the world is type 1 diabetes more common among children and young people than here in the eu. that's an understatement for today's prevention efforts. now we have to pick up the pace. we need to prevent smoking, reduce alcohol consumption and eat healthier. the eu has a role to play here, for example by making the labelling of alcohol packaging clearer. we also need to ensure that the eu never finds itself in the situation of 1.3 million americans, who are forced to skip their insulin because they cannot afford it. for us social democrats, it is obvious that there should be equal access to medicine for all. i would also like to stress the importance of keeping abreast of technological developments in the measurement of blood sugar. no old prejudices should lead to discrimination against diabetics.
madam chair, dear colleagues, it is amazing how that government in qatar is using this to say that this is a smear campaign, that this is about racism, this is about them being a middle eastern country when in fact there is nothing more racist than when you treat a migrant workers like this. because, let’s admit it, if they were europeans, this treatment would not be in place. it is because they are asian. it is because they are poor that this government is protecting these oppressors and there is nothing more racist than when a government protects the ones who are abusing human rights, the ones who are not paying these salaries for these migrant workers. and to the fifa chair: you suddenly started to understand how it is to be an arab. really? do you know how it is to be a woman in the middle east, deprived of your human dignity? you cannot file for divorce because then your children will be taken from you. you cannot be yourself. you cannot choose what to wear. you cannot even apply for a passport without a man. do you understand how it is to be an arab woman? no, you don’t.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. the commissioner has already said that he is not in favour of the proposal. seven out of ten board seats in the largest listed companies in the eu are held by men. seven out of ten are men! it is not because men have a unique capacity for governance, but because they have in fact set themselves up as a quota system. but that's over now. finally, we have a directive which will contribute to greater equality and thus also to a higher level of competence in the company boards. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on a very successful work. for a decade, i know that we have been fighting together for something that should be self-evident: that corporate boards take advantage of the skills and knowledge of the entire population. indeed, board membership is not only about the equal distribution of power and influence, but also about better decision-making. and you know what? it benefits both business, growth and society. achieving an equal and sustainable eu requires an equal distribution of both power and resources. it also requires that we continually prioritize gender equality, because a gender-equal society never, ever comes about by itself. this directive is welcome and an important step in the right direction.
madam president, commissioner, some things seem so self-evident, so obviously the right thing to do that we tend to believe that they will eventually just happen, that the persons with the most and the best qualifications take the seat in the room is one of those things. there are those who want to reduce the long battle to make sure women have a seat at the decision-making tables of companies to only be about fairness, when it is equally as much about competence. during the course of working with this legislation, we have again and again been told that it is a person’s qualifications and skills which should determine if they get a certain position, and that is exactly how it should be. after many years of hard work, we hopefully are a majority who can agree that the competences we need in companies in the eu are not only those of white middle-aged men. experiences and knowledge comes in other shapes and colours that we need to make our companies, our union, the best it can be. women on boards should be the self-evident first step to take, but it is only the beginning of something that can become even bigger.
mr president, colleagues, our union and our member states are not a desert island. so the development in one part of the world affects other parts of the world. in a time of global challenges, we therefore must ensure eu global leadership, an eu that not only take talks the talk about peace, human rights, freedom and security, but also walks the talk. feminist economic policy is imperative for a gender-equal world. colleagues, as the committee of foreign affairs standing rapporteur for the relations with palestine, i also want to remind everyone in here on our responsibility towards the palestinian people. generations of palestinians are living as refugees. we must ensure political support to end the israeli occupation and pave the way for a two-state solution, as well as ensure financial support for them to live as decent a life as possible under a currently abnormal situation. yes, occupation is abnormal, inhuman and it’s a violation of international law. i am glad, however, that in 2023 budget we are clear on the importance to continue our support to unram, including increased support since the needs have grown. i must say that i have been i have been very disappointed and ashamed of this parliament about the ongoing debates and discussions that have taken place the last two years on trying to undermine the important work that unwra is doing.
madam president, mr borrell, we promised never again. the european union is founded on the values of human dignity, freedom, equality and human rights. i took the floor to remind the high representative about the situation in xinjiang: persecution, detention and forced labour, torture, rape and systematic sexual abuse, mass forced sterilisation and forced abortions. so i would like to remind mr borrell that the ccp’s crimes against the uyghurs constitute crimes against humanity and a serious risk of genocide. so let me remind you that all signatories of the genocide convention are obliged to prevent and punish the crime of genocide. so please, mr borrell, if you cannot prevent the genocide, at least punish the abusers and sanction the monsters, because we promised never again.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner várhelyi, the regime in tehran has murdered at least 402 protesters, including 58 children for protesting or merely being on the streets, as the families of the victims have told us. in zahedan, they shot 17-year old mohammad iqbal in the back. they killed nine year old kian pirfalak, together with a 13-year old child in izeh. commissioner, i welcome the european union’s growing recognition of the threatening geopolitical environment, but the eu has been asleep for decades. sanctions were a step in the right direction, but we need to do more. we should reflect on the way forward you said. well, yes, and in doing so, we should listen to the protesters. they want divorce, not counselling. and so should we. add the irgc to the terror list and implore the member states to recall their ambassadors and expel iran’s diplomats here in the european union, close the embassies, period. the islamic republic is not a legitimate representative of the iranian people.
madam president, police opening fire at civilians, children being killed, girls being raped in prisons by security guards to make sure that they are not virgins and, therefore, will not go to heaven when they die. thousands upon thousands imprisoned and at risk of state-sanctioned executions. for many, it is already too late. but it does not mean that it was all for nothing. if we want to be on the right side of history, we have no choice but to continue and to do more, much more. all other alternatives would mean that we let the murderous islamic regime continue to dictate the terms. so we have a choice: be silent or act in solidarity with the extraordinarily brave iranian people who, day after day with their own life at stake, continue to fight for their freedom. woman, life, freedom.
madam president, colleagues, while the first feminist revolution in the middle east and the world continues to demand what should be a fact in iran – democracy and human rights – while the brave women, girls and allies shout enough is enough, there are still many actions to demand from the international community. sanction the murderous regime in iran, including their families. expel their so-called diplomats and let us all call things for what it is: the irgc is a terrorist organisation. the feminist revolution is, however, a part of a long, ongoing democratic revolution. ask the kurds in iran, they know it unfortunately too well. right now they are under severe attack by the irgc. the regime bombs have even been falling down on them in the city of koya, in the kurdistan region of iraq, where the kurdish-iranian opposition kdpi has its base. simultaneously, turkey bombed the kurdish pyd, ypg, ypj in the rojava region of syria. remember those fighting for our freedom and sacrificing their lives in the fight against the terrorist organisation isis? unfortunately, it doesn’t even stop here. turkey also bombed different parts of the kurdistan region of iraq. all across the world people are shouting jin, jiyan, azadi – women, life, freedom. let me remind us all of where the cradle of this slogan started – kurdistan. colleagues, let us show that human rights and security also means kurdish rights and security.
mr president, commissioner, mr bek, commissioner schinas, i agree that the eu right now operates as firefighters. as illegal migration decreases in the western med, it soars in the central med: almost 300 000 illegal entries into the eu this year alone. as the commissioner pointed out, right now we see economic migrants from bangladesh, egypt and tunisia. but commissioner, do you honestly believe that the migration pact will solve the problem? the un predicts africa’s population will triple from 1.4 billion to 4 billion within this century. from 2000 to 2050 the middle east population is estimated to increase by 329 million. the current migratory pressure fades in comparison to what will come. the migration pact is not designed for migration of that magnitude. why? because the eu will be overwhelmed by economic migrants using asylum as a means to enter our territory. and relocation won’t solve that. commissioner, strict measures are a necessity. illegal entry must mean forfeiture of the right to asylum. the eu must start financing border barriers. the danish asylum plan must be recognised as a serious attempt to safeguard social cohesion – our european way of life.
mr president, commission and the council, europe is at a crossroads. either member states continue to act more and more independently when it comes to migration or we find a common european approach. that is basically the choice that we have to make. and for me, it is clear that, yes, we need a system that provides control of the external borders. yes, we need a system that will provide protection to refugees and, yes, that is firm to those who are not. that is why we urgently need the migration pact. and the epp group is committed to having the pact in place before the end of this mandate. and this is possible, but it will require pragmatism and constructiveness from all of us. we must also do more to address the root causes and the drivers of migration. for this reason, we must deepen our cooperation also with third countries. the events of last week have highlighted the urgency of a predictable, operational and truly common approach to asylum and migration. this house has been waiting for the council to get ready. the council is finally now actually coming more and more together. it is time also for this house to make sure that we now come together and take this opportunity, because we have a choice to make and that is to have a european approach to migration.
mr president. why? why are you discussing how to criminalise people and organizations that save lives; instead of putting the pressure on the eu governments that shy away from their responsibilities? and how dare so many of you define yourself as christians and repeat that you are defending christian values when your ideas and your actions are proof of the opposite. there is no doubt about responsibility when it comes to saving lives at risk at sea. thank god for the ones that do what needs to be done. we need to discuss how we shall do what they are doing.
madam president, all across europe and beyond women and girls are victims of gender—based violence. still, in the year 2022, it seems to be a crime to be born female, because otherwise why would our freedom be violated and why would we need to pay the ultimate price, with our lives? frankly, i am tired of us women and girls needing, year after year, to demand an end to the deadly violence. in the home, even in politics, at schools, in the streets and squares, in war but also in peace, women and girls are subjected to violence – sexual, physical, psychological, financial and digital. in our modern europe, a feminist europe should not be a dream. it should be a reality. however, the patriarchy should be confined to the dustbin of history. as a co—rapporteur for the directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence, together with my colleague frances fitzgerald we are doing our best in order to strengthen the directive presented by the commission, which we welcome very much. the ongoing pandemic which is gender—based violence has been going on for years and years, for decades and decades. colleagues, i must say that i am ashamed that we even have six eu member states refusing to ratify the istanbul convention until now – namely bulgaria, hungary, latvia, lithuania, slovakia and, unfortunately, even the presidency itself, the czech republic. i’m not standing here to beg anyone to understand. i’m standing here to demand that everyone acts. human rights are not only for men and boys to enjoy, human rights are also for women and girls. it is our duty to women and girls to end this heinous violence!
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am honoured to be speaking for the first time in this house today, just a few days before 25 november, the international day against violence against women. violence against women, which is rooted in sexism and discrimination, is linked by a double thread to an intolerable social, employment, wage and cultural gap and, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most serious violations of human rights. from the protests of iranian and afghan women and all those women who are rebelling against illiberal regimes and conflict situations for their rights, we get a lesson in courage. it is up to us now, we must work from here, from europe, from the home of democracy, to remove barriers and obstacles and to win the challenge of gender equality, which is fundamental to countering violence against women. every day, every minute, every second that we delay our commitment to violence against women will be too long because it will negatively affect thousands of women around the world and often, unfortunately, cost them their lives. let's not forget that.
madam president, one of the greatest rights of freedom is to live a life free from violence. but still every third woman is affected by it. in a world like this, the eu must lead the way to stop violence against women, to stop the oppression. for far too long, violence against women has been neglected in the member states. this has to change now. i believe that we now have the great opportunity to make a real impact for freedom of women in europe by criminalising violence against women. as the rapporteur for the istanbul convention, i know that we have the right toolbox to implement the istanbul convention. together with a new law on gender-based violence, we will be able to deliver. this is the international gold standard to protect women from violence. so what are we waiting for? the parliament is ready. where is the council? it’s time to deliver for women, for freedom, for the whole security and freedom of europe.
mr president, madam commissioner, i don’t think that we are here today to try and convince you of the rights of lgbti people and rainbow families, because we know that you are convinced. however, we are talking here about applying the law. and i have to say, i find that the commission is too timid in enforcing case—law. the von der leyen commission generally, but certainly in these kinds of cases, puts the burden of litigating on the shoulders of individuals and civil society. there are two rulings by the european court of justice, the baby sara case and the coman case. the coman case is four and a half years old. i mean, you say the commission is monitoring, the commission may start infringement proceedings if necessary, but how much longer will the commission wait? because, you know, there isn’t limitless time. baby sara is growing up. will she be 18 before this is settled? will she have voting rights by then? so i really, really urge the european commission to start an infringement proceeding and impose sanctions on those countries and make sure that citizens can count on the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two women, a bulgarian and an englishwoman, decide to have a child by assisted reproduction in spain, where the law allows them to be recognised as parents. they then go to bulgaria to have the birth certificate transcribed there as well, but they clash with the national legislation that does not recognize the two women as the parents of the child. the left is now waving the banner of the right to freedom of movement, showing once again how cunning it is in undermining apparently basic principles, such as the free movement of european citizens, in order to undermine national legislation, without having the consent to change it democratically. the aim is to ensure that legislation that is favourable to lgbt issues in some member states, such as gay adoption, surrogacy, gender identity changes without surgery, etc., can be automatically imposed on other member states with legislation that is not welcomed by the left, with the excuse of the schengen area, without acknowledging the legislative sovereignty of the left. in short, a real legal fraud on our democracies, which i wonder how it can be accepted by a parliament which makes democracy a flag. anyway, we're certainly not the ones to accept it.
mr president, dear sara, to us you have two mothers whose parenthood we see, recognise and value; two mothers who have fought for their place in this world and for yours in this union. you might find it contradictory to call this place a union when parts of it have refused to recognise a union as beautiful as your family. and so this is why we are here today, to remind not only this house but all member states that this union and what it is aspires to be a europe that leaves children stateless three years after their birth because the family they are born into is not one we want to form part of. dear sara, you are one of us. you are european. we welcome you into this european family, and we promise you to tirelessly work so that those who have sat idle for far too long will welcome you too. because these are our values. we value equality. we value freedom of movement of all families within our union. and above all, we value love: the love your family has given you, and the love that the majority of this parliament gives you and all other children born within and outside our union.
mr. president, you've never seen your grandparents because they live in another country. i don't have a passport. a false start. this is the current reality for the almost three-year-old girl sara, who is not given a birth certificate by the bulgarian authorities and is effectively stateless. only because she has two mothers. something that other children simply get at birth, sara was taken away from. as far as the vvd is concerned, this will no longer be possible in 2022. a child should never be the victim. i therefore call on the commission and on you, commissioner dalli, to come forward with a good legislative proposal quickly. rainbow families deserve to be just a family, too. because a parent in one country is still a parent in another country.
mr president, commissioner dalli, what are we talking about when we ask the commission to take an initiative to protect rainbow families legally? adopting a regulation on parentage and a regulation on the recognition of families formed by persons of the same sex. because we are talking about fundamental rights. the first, freedom of movement and choice of residence article 45 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, but without discrimination, prohibited on grounds of sex, sexual orientation or gender identity in articles 20 and 21 of the same charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the prohibition is particularly stringent when it comes to the rights of children, who may in no case be discriminated against on the grounds of their origin or parentage. it is therefore urgent to call on all member states to protect children without discrimination in their national law and therefore guarantee them access to an identity and to comply with the judgments of the court of justice, which are conclusive: 2018, recognition of same-sex marriages and their right to move freely without discrimination, and 2021, right to the affiliation of minors without any discrimination.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i want to reassure you that it is a commission priority to ensure that the rights of rainbow families and free movement are respected and that we are monitoring the implementation of the eu free movement acquis as interpreted by the european court of justice, including in relation to the rights of rainbow families. and the commission is also in dialogue with member states in this regard. i understand, sophie, totally the impatience, but the commission has asked every single member state through dedicated questionnaires whether any legislative or administrative changes would be needed following both the coman and the v.m.a. judgment. where necessary the commission has engaged in a dialogue with relevant member states to further discuss their implementation of these judgments, and some of these dialogues are still ongoing, and in some cases i can say that positive developments can be expected in the mid-term. the commission’s focus includes careful analysis of the member states’ legislation and practices, in particular in the fields covered by recent court judgments. and in addition, the updated guidance intends to integrate the relevant elements of the case—law, reflecting the diversity of families, and this will facilitate member states in implementing eu law and therefore help avoid situations where an infringement procedure becomes necessary. but that said, rest assured that the commission will not shy away from legal action should it be deemed to be the most efficient way to ensure the protection of the rights of rainbow families and free movement. and the parenthood initiative will address the recognition of the parenthood of a child as established in another member state for purposes other than the rights derived from eu law. it will further improve the rights of rainbow family members without taking away the rights that a child already enjoys under union law on free movement, including the directive of 2004 and the relevant case—law.
mr president, just very briefly, in this hemicycle we do not tolerate racist statements, anti-semitic statements, sexist statements. and i would just like to say for the record that we should not tolerate homophobic statements either. the remark made just now by our french epp colleague is profoundly homophobic. i find it regrettable to hear that kind of language in this hemicycle. and i would really like the leadership of this house to take its distance. and we’re also going to ask for clarification whether our colleague here represents the views of the epp group.
i have listened to everyone throughout the debate and i have personally decided not to call the colleagues to order because i did not consider that to be a homophobic statement. since your assessment is different, we'd be happy to take it up with the president. the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mr charles goerens, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the future european financial architecture for development (2021/2252 (ini)) (a9-0270/2022).
the rapporteur. mr president, in niger a young man wants to start a construction company. he has no financial means and if a loan is refused, he has to abandon his project. in another developing country, there is an urgent need to reduce inequality. the creation of a social protection system could help. but if we lack everything, it becomes impossible to start the project. we want to improve access to health care in africa, where there is a lack of hospitals, laboratories, medical schools everywhere. money is not everything, but without money, many projects become illusory. the financial architecture of development tends to address this. the european union is spending €80 billion between 2020 and 2030 on this. although official development assistance for europe accounts for 46% of the contributions of oecd member states as a whole, it is soon apparent that a multiple of this amount is needed to achieve the sustainable development goals. how can we do that? this is where the development financial architecture comes in to enable the aspiring nigerian entrepreneur to realize his dream. he's lost if the local bank doesn't give him anything. the launch of large-scale social security can only succeed if a minimum of administrative and computer communications infrastructure is available, provided that the political conditions for its implementation are fulfilled from the outset. the development financial architecture promises to remedy this, i said. let us say at the outset that most of the instruments exist. these include the development ministries, the commission, development banks and financial institutions. these financial institutions are expected to mobilise private capital to fill public funding gaps. this gap is estimated at $4.2 trillion per year to achieve the sustainable development goals. these financial institutions exist. at european and national level, they are the european investment bank, the european bank for reconstruction and development, the french afd, the german kfw, to name a few, and of course the dutch, swedish, italian and other institutions. in short, a multitude of actors active in the same field. the european parliament would like to see them organised in order to reduce duplication and inconsistencies in development policy, to give priority to the complementarity of the actors, and to integrate their action into an overall approach of the european union, guided by the principle of policy first. the year 2022 reveals the urgency of putting this new financial architecture in place. the war in ukraine is wasting valuable time and the reconstruction of that country after the war will require the mobilization of enormous amounts of money. on the one hand, there is already a huge financial gap and, on the other hand, the combined effect of the war in ukraine and the impact of the covid crisis have increased capital needs by one third over the past three years. we no longer have the right to waste a single euro, so great are the needs to achieve the sdgs. financial architecture is betting on the future. it promises to respect human rights, social rights, the requirements of the paris agreement on climate change, the commitments made in addis ababa in the context of financing development aid, the principles of sound management, the principle of partnership and the principle of ownership. in short, it is rare to see so many requirements or even commitments combined in one single measure. this report is the result of the collective work of the commission. it is the fruit of the work and contributions of the fictional rapporteurs, but also the fruit of the commitment of my assistant, mrs simoes. i thank everyone for having succeeded in getting this report voted unanimously in the committee on development, and i hope that we can also find a very large majority here in this house.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank, also on behalf of my colleague, commissioner urpilainen, the rapporteur, and the committee on development, for putting forward this very useful report on the european financial architecture for development. i agree with many of the considerations outlined in this report and its conclusions. european financial architecture for development is an important building block of our more effective and more impactful cooperation with partner countries. we are confronted today with multiple crises – the consequences of covid-19, the russian aggression against ukraine, debt pressure, food insecurity, energy costs and climate change. all of these exacerbate the gap in finances needed to achieve the sustainable development goals. to make the best possible use of scarce resources and to achieve sustainable impact, we need a joint european response combining all relevant instruments and actors. following a system-wide review of the european financial architecture for development already in 2019, the commission adopted its timely roadmap for an improved effort last march. the roadmap is organised around four different areas. first, providing a strong policy steer to strengthen alignment with eu policy objectives. two, enhancing coordination and providing incentives to work together. three, making the architecture more inclusive, and four, raising the visibility of eu actions. since then, significant progress has been made in all these four areas. let me briefly mention some examples. on strategic steering, all investment operations financed from the eu budget are scrutinised to ensure that they comply with programming documents, that they align with team europe initiatives and the eu’s global policy priorities, such as delivering on the global gateway strategy and the green deal, and also mainstreaming gender and environmental aspects. we aim to make use of our various eu tools and development actors in smart and flexible ways. for instance, the european investment bank will benefit from the dedicated guarantee windows, but will also be able to use the private sector guarantees under efsd+ open architecture. the commission is currently assessing the outcome of the call for proposals. i share your views on the importance of inclusiveness. in principle, all eu pillar assessed financial institutions are eligible to use the open architecture guarantee. this includes multilateral institutions and regional development banks, while also relying, whenever possible, on european financial institutions. under the efsd+ open architecture, we received guarantee proposals from 20 potential implementing partners – exceeding expectations. several new partners submitted proposals for the first time from within the eu and outside. for instance, the caribbean development bank. we will be able to select those proposals which offer a strong development impact and best fit our strategic policy priorities. i fully agree that efforts should improve the eu’s visibility and impact of its development finance. many eu delegations report that the team europe initiative’s design process has significantly increased cooperation with european development finance institutions on the ground. you also call for effective governance of the global gateway strategy. the commission and member states agreed to set up a global gateway board to provide strategic steering, and we propose that the european parliament is of course involved as observer, and a dedicated business advisory group to exchange with european businesses. this will allow strong strategic guidance on our collective ambitions.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, i have to go. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr charles goerens, for the report, which is a very complex piece of work. the european union spends 70 billion euros a year on international development, yet we face increasing difficulties. nearly 700 million people live in extreme poverty, 350 million go hungry, 31 million are war refugees in africa in a single year. we have to see that the lack of security and education in africa has undermined a lot of eu investment, has amplified the impact of migration, and has ultimately impeded sustainable development. the european union, together with the eu development banks and private investment, is mobilising eur 500 billion for development projects. however, meaningful results require more effective coordination between the european investment bank and the member states' international development actors. and the investment bank needs to have a direct, genuine dialogue with its african partners. we also need clear objectives, namely safety, education and employment.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. hundreds of millions of people are starving. to meet the un's sustainability goals, we need 130 trillion by 2030. that is our task, that is our challenge. yes, it is true no one spends more money on development policy internationally than the european union and its member states; but the numbers tell us: we need to be clearer, we need to be more convincing in our strategy. and we also need to win our partner countries -- in english, you say ownership, make it their own thing. and that is why what mr goerens says is right. i congratulate him on his report, it shows the right way: supporting sustainability, winning people to go their own way, to make their countries strong, to build a sustainable future. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. that's also an important... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the id group. mr president, i cannot support a text which calls once again for more international aid, which is still disproportionately provided by europe and the united states. similarly, any discussion of debt should primarily involve china, which holds about 21% of the continent's debt, often through loans backed by draconian terms. development policies cannot be reduced to public aid. other resources must be used. we all remember the unctad estimate of $88.6 billion in illicit capital flows into africa, a valuable resource that would help achieve the sustainable development goals. could not the transfer of funds from individuals, which now exceeds public aid as external revenue for most low and middle income countries, also be better exploited? an effective strategy is based above all on mutual trust between donors and beneficiaries. in this respect, the conditionality of aid, in particular on the return of migrants, is a significant requirement. we hope that the post-cotonou agreement will be an opportunity for a new start in a genuine development policy.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the cooperation and development policy promoted by the european union has been an expression of the geostrategic interests of european powers and the profits of large european capital, rather than an approach of effective cooperation with a view to empowering and consolidating the independence of developing countries. the materialization of a global europe gives strength to this instrumentalisation of international cooperation in the geopolitical field and control of resources, insisting on a neocolonial approach. the report thus reflects the growing financialization of official development aid, offering more debt to the states concerned in the context of increasing political conditionality, in open confrontation between the sovereign options and strategies of the developing countries and the interests of third countries. the growing militarization and aggressiveness of a foreign policy at the service of the european powers and the big economic groups leaves a trail of dependence, inequalities, war, to the detriment of the interests of the peoples. a genuine policy of development cooperation and aid, with the appropriate means and based on genuine solidarity, is urgently needed.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the eu and the eu27 together are the largest donors to developing countries in the world. i am afraid that, as sanctions policy has a negative impact on the economies of the eu member states, it also threatens the implementation of the sustainable development goals, and that is why peace is needed first and foremost. the report contains a number of good points, but i would like to highlight one: help must be brought home. strengthening local communities and prosperity in the homeland is the most important goal. we're not giving fish to the poor anymore, we're teaching them how to fish. let's take it one step further and help them sell the fish so that not only a family can live well, but a whole village or a city can live well.
mr president, commissioner, it is crucial that we improve the impact of european development finance. to do this, we first have to increase our efforts for better coordination and cooperation between european development finance institutions, reduce red tape and make the system more effective and focused on ensuring optimal use for our limited resources. secondly, we need a powerful policy direction to ensure that the activities of other development finance institutions are aligned with our values and also our strategic interests. finally, we have to also scale up private—sector mobilisation for sustainable development, including support to micro—, small and medium enterprises in partner countries to enable growth. i therefore very much welcome this report, and i would like to thank our rapporteur and all the deve colleagues that have been working on this.
author. – mr president, since 15 august 2021, when the taliban stole power in afghanistan, the situation in the country has deteriorated quickly, in particular the situation for women and girls, and especially for minority groups such as the hazara. the extremist taliban group initiated their rule by appointing an all-male cabinet, which they call a government. for me, as a social democrat and a feminist, it is nothing less than a group of terrorists that destroys the lives of the people and the progress made in afghanistan. they decide on what women and girls should wear. they decide on where women and girls should walk. they decide on what women and girls can or cannot say. the taliban gender apartheid is despicable and it must end now. commissioner, you need to expand the list of targeted measures against the taliban leadership responsible for this, because dismantling human rights must come with a price. the eu must step up its efforts to share information with the international criminal court to ensure the end of impunity. violating international law must have consequences, and eu countries should increase their humanitarian assistance to the un, and ngos’ unprecedented and urgent needs must be met. women and girls in afghanistan are suffering right now.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the nobel peace prize winner ales bialiatski is one of the courageous human rights activists in belarus. since last summer, he has been imprisoned without trial. a desperate dictator tries to keep the people in fear. it’s not only the belarusian people who suffer from lukashenko’s tyranny. by allowing russia to use belarusian territory for attacks against ukraine, the regime in minsk continues to enable russia’s unjustified war of aggression against ukraine. we cannot let lukashenko get away with this. he is, together with putin, responsible for the war crimes in ukraine and should be held accountable. it is lukashenko who should be imprisoned while ales and his 1 449 fellow political prisoners should go free. (the speaker used a slogan in a non-eu language)
author. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, twizire and rebecca are two young congolese women who are at the moment, as we speak, being treated for horrendous wounds after being raped at the same time as them being pregnant. they are like tens of thousands of congolese women who are being treated for their wounds, and even more who never got treated. rape is used as a systematic, strategic weapon of war by landlords who are financed by state actors in the region. on 20 october, over 180 000 congolese were forced to be displaced, adding up now to nearly 6 million internally displaced congolese. this madness has to stop. i call upon you, colleagues, i call upon the commission and the council, to keep pushing for peacebuilding in congo. but there cannot be peace without justice. that’s why i promise tonight that these men, these landlords who are raping are going to be brought to justice. mark my words: you’re all going to be punished.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i come from one of the most wolf-infested areas in northern europe. for those on the left who think that the eu should under no circumstances change its protection status, i thought i would tell you something from värmland: we could see the sheep from the kitchen window. some were just a few feet from the house. most of them were dead. i had to shoot two in the garden, says farmer mats eriksson, from brandbol's farm, outside gräsmark, home in my värmland. we have dog owners who don't dare to take their dogs out anymore and parents who don't dare to let their kids out. we've had an increase from 10 wolves - 17 wolves in sweden, when this protection status was established - to over 400 wolves today. and you don't want to touch the protection status. it's not holding. you are undermining the credibility of the european union by doing this. it's time to change the wolf's protection status.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when the riksdag approved the eu corona fund, it was supposed to be a temporary, one-time event. the swedish democrats, the german court of auditors and many others warned that a precedent was being set for shifting the cost of future crises to the eu level. now the next crisis is here, and you centralists are refusing to cut aid funds, waste or bureaucracy. even the islamist contributions are sacred. instead, parliament is calling for a common borrowing, as the normal way of financing eu spending a massive increase in power at the expense of the member states. the purpose of the debt rescheduling is to increase pressure on member states and to approve the introduction of several new eu taxes to repay the loans. the sd votes against the debt and the taxes. i hope that the swedish prime minister heeds the warning of his predecessor that 'one who is in debt is not free' and keeps his promise to say no to eu taxes.
mr president, today the european parliament decided to designate the russian federation as a state sponsor of terrorism. now, some members of this house were trying to water down this resolution and delete this designation. and i’m glad those efforts did not succeed, because right after this vote, two things happened. the russian federation started to terror-bomb ukraine and russians hacked the european parliament’s it system, which means that this vote actually made a difference, something that was confirmed by the message by president zelenskyy. now, my message here today to the member states, to the council is: take this seriously. establish a european legal framework to designate russia a sponsor of terrorism. do it quickly. it’s needed.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. the commissioner has already said that he is not in favour of the proposal. we have war in europe, we have a climate crisis, and we still have the effects of the pandemic that are plaguing us. all of this is something that young people all over europe are experiencing and are very concerned about. in my country, sweden, the younger generation responds by saying that their optimism is declining. less than half today see a bright future ahead. that is why it is so important that we take the concerns of children and young people seriously, and that is why the european year of youth was welcomed. the eu has so much to offer young people: high-quality student exchanges under erasmus, the chance to travel and discover europe, a first job or a traineeship in another eu country, perhaps here in parliament. but we can do more. we need more student exchanges, more flexible train services and decent wages and conditions. the european year for youth must be more than individual events and seminars. it must be a kick-start for a youth policy that shows continued solidarity with ukraine, that is gender-equal and inclusive and that really takes the climate crisis seriously. the european union is at stake. let the european year of youth be a turning point of hope for all young people in the eu, for the future of our union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, let me first start by thanking our rapporteur, ms pelletier, for her good work and for the good cooperation on this file. let me highlight two important issues covered. firstly, the forthcoming proposal on the eu disability card. it would mean more free movement between member states also for eu citizens who are disabled. i think the parliament needs to send an important signal in this report where we support the work of the european commission in this matter. secondly, the eu has great influence on our immediate neighbourhood. it is crucial for the eu to use its soft power to increase the quality of life for people with disabilities, also outside our union. i am happy that this perspective has also been covered and highlighted in this report. lastly, i would like to highlight the epp group’s opposition to paragraph 90 of this report that proposes an eu legal framework for inclusive enterprises. our european companies are already working really hard to better include persons with disabilities in enterprises and in society at large. i think that we need to show them that we see these efforts without demanding new eu directives that will further put red tape on businesses in these tough times.
for the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the eu's motto is 'united in diversity'. we shall promote diversity among each other, between member states and between citizens, and strengthen each other. but in several member states, citizens are oppressed for one reason only: disability. they're institutionalized for life. they are deprived of their basic rights, such as voting, and where they are allowed to vote, polling stations are not securely accessible to them. it is totally unacceptable to deny people the fullness of life because of a disability. clear signals have been sent by parliament with this legislation to those member states where the rights of disabled people are not respected and guaranteed. clear signals have also been sent to the commission, where we now also want to see an accessibility card in place as soon as possible for people with disabilities. and you can't drag your feet now. for those member states which are not yet able to guarantee all the rights of their citizens: we'll keep an eye on you! i'll be watching you! it is time for you to abolish these oppressive laws. i would like to thank anne-sophie pelletier for a very good collaboration. i would like to thank all the groups from the right to the centre to the left for a good cooperation, where we put aside our ideological and political differences and actually produced a good text, a good proposal. this is a subject that is so important to so many citizens of the european union, and we should not dismiss it out of hand for political reasons.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it was both exciting and important to be on the ground at cop27 in egypt, but it was with concern and disappointment that i left the climate summit. i wish i had done so much more. i am concerned about the women and children who are the least emitting but the most affected when, for example, a third of pakistan's vast land is submerged. i am disappointed that so little progress has been made in the negotiations to slow down global warming. but i'm also proud. proud of the role played by the eu and our commissioner timmermans in the negotiations. the eu became the bridge that opened the way for the fund to deal with the damage of the climate crisis. the eu took responsibility and raised the bar even higher. but until the next meeting, the eu's leadership will be crucial and we must stick to it. we must raise our ambitions even further. if we are to meet the paris agreement's goals, we really need to do it now. if we're going to meet the 1.5°c target, we're going to have to put in a higher gear. and that is our fault, that is our fault, all the innocent women, children and young people who emit the least but suffer the most.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? my colleagues! when the world gathered in egypt for cop27, it was in the shadow of war and crisis. we're struggling with skyrocketing energy prices and inflation. but despite the gigantic challenges, the climate cannot wait, and i wish i didn't have to say this, but cop27 was another disappointment. we would need to agree on faster action to really bring down emissions. but at the same time, i am proud that the eu is living up to expectations and showing leadership. last week, we reached agreements on new legislation on sustainable batteries and the world's first law against global deforestation. it will make a big difference and show clear eu leadership. we will continue negotiations on a climate change border mechanism shortly. so let's use this as inspiration to prepare for a successful climate summit meeting next time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one cop after another, and the promises made during them are a bit like good new year's resolutions, those made in the evening and betrayed the next day. the creation of a compensation fund for the countries of the south is certainly good news. this is the least we can do, since the north's prosperity was based on the exploitation of the south and these countries are now suffering the dramatic consequences of climate change, which they did not cause. europe, for its part, wants to be a good pupil, but it does not give itself the means to achieve its ambitions. it is enough to look at the latest political choices made in this house, in particular the free trade agreements, which are still promoting the great movement of the world. what about our handling of the energy crisis? this is a major issue, one that affects the climate as much as 44 million europeans. while the energy market leads us directly to electricity shortages and skyrocketing prices, the commission systematically and blindly tells us that we must trust the market. we do not trust this market or its short-term vision, guided by private interests and immediate profit. we need a long-term vision, where the public authorities identify the needs of the population and act to meet them. ladies and gentlemen, if we are to succeed in the next steps, we must make it clear that the market and ecological planning are incompatible. it's time to draw the proper consequences.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? we're getting reports every day that all point in the same direction. the climate challenge we face requires ambitious and effective action. on the ground in egypt, we also got testimony about how the money that is destined for education, in the maldives for example, today has to go to climate action. it puts children's education at risk and we also see that we need to take this seriously. we can also see that it matters when the eu actually comes up with concrete legislation. we have agreements on how to reduce our emissions, increase our carbon sinks and reshape our road transport. it's a clear signal that we're ambitious with our climate goals. i think i can speak for everyone when i say that cop was a mixture of both sweet and salty. the fact is that the measures we have worked out so far are not sufficient to keep the 1.5°c target alive. it is shortcomings that threaten the very heart of the paris agreement. but also sweet, because we got a lot of testimonials on the ground that industry, the business community, is willing to do the job. it's rare to be happy when you get criticised, but many of the business representatives said: you have to run faster. the policy must move faster, because the information is already there and we are ready to do the job.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner timmermans, you are here. i am making the same analysis as many others with regard to cop27. small steps in the right direction in terms of working on 'loss and damage', but unfortunately a big disappointment in terms of the very central work of quickly reducing our emissions. as regards the loss and damage work, i have a question for the commissioner: how can we in the eu and the rest of the rich world improve our reputation? we've also promised money to poor, vulnerable parts of the world before and we haven't delivered. this time we really have to deliver. as for the real key to the climate issue to reduce emissions quickly , it is only to state: we have certainly raised the ambitions within the eu a little bit for the meeting, but we are still far from what independent science says is required to be in line with the paris agreement. what are we going to do now, quickly, so that we start to get closer to being in the paris agreement in time for the next climate summit, cop28?
madam president, i would like to thank you. recently, we read that 52 percent of french teachers practice self-censorship to avoid encountering religious students. as self-censorship spreads, islamists have achieved an important milestone on the road to legal censorship. in sweden, we have an islamist party represented in several municipalities that run blasphemy laws. that should strike fear into the hearts of every freedom-loving european. but for a number of years, the eu has been supporting islamists and thereby actively undermining our european way of life. youth organizations with ties to the muslim brotherhood have received millions. the association against islamophobia in france, which was dissolved by the government after the murder of teacher samuel paty, has received a grant. the islamic university of gaza, a major symbol of hamas, received over five million sek from the eu in 2019. after my publicity, the donations to the islamic university have been stopped. member states are exchanging experiences in the council to tackle islamism and the commission has been ordered to tighten the requirements to stop the grants. it's about time. if freedom is to have a place in europe, islamism must be pushed back.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! the european agenda for culture was established in 2016. but this was a time before cultural workers had to endure a pandemic, a time before the massive renovation wave of climate change and a time before the war that wiped out beautiful cultural heritage. the new updated cultural policy must be shaped from a child and youth perspective. after all, it's young adults who, in the wake of the pandemic, are questioning their future in culture. it is children who have been hit the hardest by the climate crisis, and it is for future generations that we must preserve our cultural heritage. our young people have expectations of the eu's work on health and sustainability and so let us not undermine chemical laws even to renovate beautiful art, but let us embrace research and innovation to safely preserve cultural heritage from generation to generation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! one in three children in the world is threatened by both the climate crisis and poverty. that's what save the children says in their report. when we deal with crises, whatever the crisis, we must have children's rights at the centre. it's their future. we know that families all over europe are having an incredibly tough time financially at this time and it's something that's affecting the children very hard. growing up in poverty has a negative impact on children's schooling, on children's rights and opportunities later in life. if we are to end child poverty and end the climate crisis, we need political will and we need to put children first. the child guarantee is an important tool for this. every child in the eu should be able to grow up in safety and to enjoy his or her rights. every child should feel hope in the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! i am also both shocked and angry that it seems that we have corruption in our elected parliament. it is not only damaging to our european parliament as an institution, it is damaging to politics, it is damaging to democracy and it is damaging to credibility. i would like to thank our commissioner, ylva johansson, for her clear speech. and yes, they should be ashamed. the perpetrator of the crime must of course be brought to justice, but at the same time we must take our responsibility in parliament, in the eu institutions. we need reforms that strengthen transparency and openness. we need systems where our citizens feel safe. they should be able to trust our institutions and they should be able to trust us. let us use our anger, as we now feel, to ensure that this never, ever again enters our parliament. (the speaker agreed to reply to a question ('blue card')
the commission has also received a number of requests for information from the member states. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in november, heléne fritzon, the majority of meps wanted a parliamentary resolution critical of qatar. you and your party colleagues erik bergkvist and ilan de basso voted against that idea. i'd like to ask why? i would like to ask why the swedish social democrats voted in favour of visa-free travel for qatar when the centre party, for example, which is not exactly known for its closed borders, voted against it?
the answer ('blue card'). mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would just like to say to mr weimers that he knows very well that we voted on the formalities on the agenda. when we then come to the resolution, i can clearly state that as a social democrat i, together with my group, stand up for the rights of workers, girls and women. and we do that every time we make a decision that's so important, unlike charlie weimers.
mr president, colleagues, peace must be the ultimate goal wherever a conflict appears. freedom must be the ultimate goal wherever an occupation exists. life must be the ultimate goal where death is ever-present. but yet, over half a century has passed with a total lack of progress in getting close to ending the israeli occupation of palestine. 2022 has become the deadliest year for palestinians in over 15 years. the people of palestine and israel are suffering. it is a shame on this parliament, it is a shame on the eu, and it is a shame on the international community that we have let occupation become permanent. how hard can it be to implement the ruling of our own court, the european court of justice, on the labelling of israeli settlement products? how hard could it be to demand an end to the demolition of palestinian homes and structures? how hard could it be to apply visa rules on israeli settlers in occupied palestine? the palestinians need a visa today, but the settlers don’t need visas. the eu, including this parliament, claims it wants a two-state solution, but our actions say something else. we have let the two-state dream turn into a one-state reality through letting the settlements grow without any actions from our side.
mr president, the memory of the international community seems to be short. the eu is once again silent while crimes of atrocity against kurds are taking place. turkey’s bombs have been falling down on the rojava region of syria and the kurdistan region of iraq. it is the same kurds that have sacrificed their lives for also our freedom here in the eu in the struggle against terrorism. turkey’s bombs have crumbled years of struggle against the most heinous terrorist organisation on this planet, against isis. but yet, silence is the choice of the international community. it is enough with hypocrisy. the memory of the international community might be short, but let me tell you who has not got the luxury of having a short memory: mohammed, who was 12 years old, whose body was burned by turkish white phosphorus in the kurdistan region of iraq in 2019, and my own kurdish grandmother, who got her whole village demolished and herself shot at – thank god, not hit – by turkish military in the city of lice in 1993, in the kurdistan region of turkey. colleagues, the eu must demand a no-fly zone over the rojava region and act to end the turkish aggression against the kurds in the different parts before it’s too late.
mr president, commissioner vestager, mr bek, the energy crisis is bad now, and it will get worse next winter. there isn’t enough production, supply nor import capacity. you progressives fought for the shutdown of nuclear power, resisted the restart of reactors, refused extraction, and restricted the use of branches, tops and twigs from logging in bioenergy. you push for new, expensive climate legislation. you claimed renewables offered salvation. you refused to classify nuclear as sustainable in the eu taxonomy. how do you think it’s working out? madam president, a price cap won’t make up for zealotry. it won’t resolve the underlying problem, which is lack of supply. europe needs a moratorium on new climate legislation. it needs gas drilling, the restart to nuclear, and that we stop the mindless attack on nordic bioenergy. it’s time to take a stand for people who are losing their jobs and for the pensioners in sweden calling helplines in desperation as they cannot afford to heat their homes.
mr president, every treaty transferred more and more powers to brussels. every treaty increased the number of decisions taken by qmv (qualified majority voting). national vetoes have been abolished in area after area. today, member states can be steamrolled by the majority in most policy areas. sweden recently had minimum wage, pay transparency and gender quota directives imposed on us against our will. eu centralists now have their sights set on the final areas member states retain veto over: taxes, spending, foreign policy and enlargement, and changes to the treaties – the rules of this club. here in strasbourg, most want to abolish these last vestiges of national sovereignty, but you lack the consent of the people. swedes don’t want to transfer more power to the eu – it’s one of the most unpopular policy ideas around. swedes want to retain the right to say no to your new taxes and your new spending sprees.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu is supposed to be a safe haven. a community where all of us who live here can express our opinions, engage, be loud in our protests and powerful in demonstrations, without recording opinions or other sanctions. it's not like that today. not for everyone. we know that foreign agents are persecuting eu citizens here in the eu. a fact and an oppression that the iranian diaspora, among others, has lived with for decades. the islamic regime in iran not only wants to frighten the people of iran into silence and obedience, but also persecutes our citizens here. the eu must put a stop to the iranian agents. they will be tried, they will be convicted, and they will be deported. no one is free until everyone is free.
author. – madam president, discontent is spreading in red china, where lockdowns remain an essential part of the zero-covid policy. lockdowns are enforced so harshly that 10 people, including a 3-year-old child, died when a fire broke out in a residential building in xinjiang. some suspect they could not get out and that firefighters were prevented from arriving at the scene by ccp pandemic laws. the tragedy triggered protests across china and the world. some, mainly in chinese, bravely called for an end to ccp rule and for xi jinping to step down. blank pieces of paper were used to mourn those who died and to protest against the censorship, cover-up and victim-blaming of the regime in beijing. we know that authoritarian regimes do not value human life. we know the ccp is on the wrong side of history. but why is high representative borrell silent? where is the condemnation by the eu? fellow colleagues, i’ve summarised high representative borrell’s statements in support of the brave protesters in china. this is the summary. (the speaker held up a sheet of paper)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, imagine sitting at home years after years, hoping and praying for your father, husband, or son to enjoy a dinner with you, or just being able to have a good laugh together. these simple things might not be dreams for us, but they are dreams for many people in bahrain. the family of the danish—bahraini citizen abdulhadi al—khawaja has over a decade dreamt what we take for granted. today gives us all here in this room the possibility to send a clear message to his family and all other human rights defenders’ families that their dreams are our dreams. today gives us all here in this room the possibility to send a clear message to the cruel regime of bahrain that human rights are not for selected people to enjoy. human rights are not if and when: human rights are universal and always. the european union’s – including parliament’s – biggest role is to defend the universal values within the union and globally. colleagues, all prisoners of conscience must immediately be released. death penalty must be abolished. and the eu officials should always include visit of political prisoners on their programme in bahrain. the crackdown on the political opposition must end. therefore we also need to ensure that no surveillance technology of the european union or the member states ends up in the hands of the oppressive regime of bahrain. enough is enough. and i must also say that i think that the epp’s boycott of the urgent resolutions on human rights breaches are a shame. human rights cannot wait.
madam president, 30 years ago, we agreed that minorities’ rights need enhanced protection and promotion, and in only a few weeks’ time, sweden will take over the presidency of the council, a country with a government that is in practice run by a party established by nazis in the late 80s. the european union has committed to protecting and promoting minorities’ rights, but for the next six months the work of the council will be led by a country – my country – which in area after area is doing the opposite of just that. i refuse to accept and pretend that the eu stands up for values that we do not implement in reality. in a democracy, the majority has a responsibility to promote and defend minorities’ rights. why are you so many that choose to shy away from that fundamental responsibility?
madam president, colleagues, the rights of persons belonging to national, ethnic or religious and linguistic minorities are an essential part of fully fledged democracies. their protection and rights are an integral part of upholding the universal human rights. but even after 30 years of the un declaration, the eu and its member states have a long way to go to ensure that minorities are protected, and their rights are defended. a society’s well—being is judged by how we treat our whole population, especially how we treat minorities. we could even start looking at ourselves here in this european parliament and other eu institutions. we talk about ‘united in diversity’ as our slogan, as our flagship, but what i see is a lack of diversity. we need to strengthen the protection of minority rights all across the european union, and we also need to promote them globally. anyone who belongs to a national minority must have the right to learn, develop and use their minority language. the authorities must listen to the national minorities and take their needs into account. the parties must become more inclusive because only through inclusiveness, we ensure that each and every person in the european union also in practice can become a part of society and make their voice heard. unfortunately, we see this discrimination in all parts of our society. we need to end the discrimination and we need to defend, promote and respect the rights of minorities.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? it suffers by christmas. we sing of a thousand christmas lights and peace on earth. but in the ukraine of war, it's dark. outside the cathedral of st. sophia in kiev, as usual, a christmas tree will be erected, because, as the mayor said, putin will not be allowed to steal christmas. but the tree will have no lights this year, because the power supply is at breaking point. russia's attack on ukraine is aimed at maximizing suffering and killing. ukraine is not only fighting for its own existence but for the whole of europe. it is our duty to provide ukraine with the arms, the protection and the support it needs. it is dark now, but we will fight together for brighter times, when ukrainians do not have to celebrate christmas in dark shelters, when those who committed war crimes are judged, when the people of ukraine have their country, their freedom and their peace back.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! russia's terrible war against ukraine is going on right here, right now. infrastructure is under attack. houses, schools, playgrounds are being bombed. people's lives are being shattered. now we are facing a winter, a christmas weekend, but the eu cannot take a break. we must continue to support ukraine in full in words and in deeds. this spring we social democrats initiated a resolution calling for concrete measures to protect children and young people affected by the war. and it is just as urgent now. we must keep a child rights perspective in the measures we send to ukraine. it is about humanitarian aid, the rebuilding of vital infrastructure and solidarity with the ukrainian people. we must continue to give our full support, for the sake of the ukrainian people, for democracy and freedom in europe and the world.
