but what is the cost of using pesticides here when we have dead soils, when we have a loss in biodiversity, when we have a bursting problem in the health system?
there is no doubt that some pesticides, or many pesticides, carry unacceptable risks, cause damage to the environment, to the citizens, but also to the farmers who use these pesticides.
in order to strengthen control and testing of pesticides in the authorization procedure with transparency and with control by the companies and in the future with greater consideration of health and environmental aspects, i ask you to support this report.
from the kneissl-knicks to the non-signing of the un migration pact, which has triggered a domino effect: the political climate in europe has been poisoned for a long time.
we want to mobilise €700 billion in additional investment over seven years, reduce red tape and increase efficiency by concentrating funding instruments, better supporting smaller projects and businesses, increasing resourcefulness and, by expanding the direct award of the eu guarantee, safeguarding the political independence and transparency of investment decisions and ensuring the implementation of climate objectives.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the implementation of the sustainability chapter in the agreement with peru and colombia is not working satisfactorily.
after trade agreements are concluded, it is our task to monitor implementation, especially in the area of sustainability chapters.
in conclusion, i would like to stress once again that existing rules cannot be enforced without sanctions for violations of human rights, social or environmental standards.
therefore, it is essential to have sanctioning possibilities in the sustainability chapters.
unfortunately, the european union's trade agreements still lack enforceable mechanisms to protect labour and environmental standards.
we would have liked a further change to 'fair transition' to show even better that it is about sustainable, good, sustainable and high-quality jobs.
i am very pleased that we have been able to achieve many improvements in working together, which will be reflected in the fund's future; on the one hand, it is becoming much more future-oriented, because the digitalisation, but also the transformation of the economy to a low-carbon economy, is seen as an opportunity and not a problem, that there is retraining for job seekers for future-oriented sectors, especially for green jobs, that neets, that is, young people who are not in education, work or training, can also be included.
with concrete projects, such as initiatives to tackle energy poverty and housing projects for socially disadvantaged people, the esf+ supports where it is most needed.
the overall operational plan of the eib for the period 2017-2019 is based on the europe 2020 strategy objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the fields of energy, transport and mobility, health, rural infrastructure development and agricultural business development, smes and midcaps, environment and innovation.
in 2017 alone, 901 projects were approved and €78 billion was allocated to innovation, environment, infrastructure and smes.
eur 16.6 billion went to projects in the fields of environment and sustainability, the development of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, biodiversity, clean water and air, waste management, sustainable transport, etc.
a quarter of the loan amount will be allocated to climate-related projects.
i would like to say to my colleagues from the greens and the gue that you are certainly aware that a total of 25% of the bank's lending volume is being used for climate-related projects and that it will be even more in the future.
the interesting thing about this competition report was that we discussed four areas more intensively: general enforcement of competition law, digital developments, environmental developments and the financial and banking sectors.
self-learning machines can help us dramatically reduce road traffic fatalities, manage resources more efficiently, reduce our energy consumption, and can be used in many other areas.
it is about climate protection, it is about spatial planning, but it is also about education and training in advance - that is, prevention in all areas.
we want to produce for europe, we want food that is safe, that is healthy, that does not harm the environment.
sustainability, workers' rights and environmental standards play a minor or even no role in comparison.
we must show - not just now in the election campaign, but also in the constant debate - who are the forces, who are the individual members of this house who are currently working to ensure that this sustainable policy in europe - whether in climate issues, whether in agricultural issues, whether in social issues - is not implemented.
because we heard it again today: it is the colleagues in this house who are spreading fake news, who are making unfounded, unscientific claims that climate policy is putting jobs at risk, that sustainable agriculture without pesticides is putting our agriculture at risk.
they're being used to fight climate change, to fight poverty, and they're creating jobs.
this means equality, non-discrimination, sustainable development and respect for human rights.
climate protection is also being strengthened, which was of course a particular concern for us greens; climate proofing and the 30% target are certainly important milestones in the further development of regional policy.from a green perspective, we are very critical of the transfer possibilities to other eu funds.
we need to move away from stubborn investment in cows, to sustainable investment in the future.
i have to say, madam president, i just want to remind you that we should also consider the sustainable development goals.
this is particularly true of goal 6, which is clean water, and goal 7, renewable energy.
i think it would be important to focus on the sustainable development goals, especially in inland navigation, and to ensure that we have the highest quality water - the best drinking water possible - and mobility that is sustainable on our inland waters.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
this is not sustainable, neither for the east nor for the west.
it is about sustainability and not just about short-term projects motivated by domestic politics.
the protection of our environment and the achievement of climate targets must not be put on the back burner.
climate change does not stop at national borders.
but we will only be able to win people for sustainable change if this is accompanied by more fairness and social justice.
if the climate were a bank, it would have been saved by now.
in 2017, carbon emissions were at an all-time high.
we need radical measures in all areas, from transport to industry to energy supply, and at european level.
because climate change does not stop at the border.
the eu must become a climate superpower.
the eu-wide, socially balanced carbon tax must be introduced quickly, plastic waste must be substantially reduced and glyphosate must finally be banned completely.
70% of our electricity comes from renewable energy, not nuclear power.
the economic, environmental, social, technological and democratic challenges can only be met by europe acting together across party lines and through a united europe in the world.
however, the fact is that many member states are not living up to their responsibilities and are making little or no effort to address the clearly identified problem areas and most urgent challenges with concrete reform measures, especially when it comes to ensuring the sustainability of the financiability of social systems.
– madam president, dear commissioner, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs for reaching another milestone in the completion of the clean energy package, which will provide our citizens with a greener market-based system that better answers the interconnected reality of our european electricity market.
the future implementation of this regulation will successfully lower the risk of black-outs and it will also lower the electricity bills for consumers while decreasing our member states’ dependence on third countries’ energy supply.
here we see that diesel has 219 grams of co2 per 100,000 miles, e-mobility has 277, and gasoline has the highest emissions with 300 grams of co2 per mile.
i am in favour of introducing life-cycle costs because that is the future, and of focusing on synthetic fuels like hydrogen because they can be produced from renewable energy.
we reject nuclear power because it is expensive and harmful to the environment.
three percent of the annual and global co2 emissions are caused by humans.
it would have been better for our citizens, for our businesses and, above all, for the environment.
there has been a lot of progress in the area of climate change, a lot of progress in the area of women's equality.
we have no time to waste on lip service.
we all know that without water there is no sustainable food: food, feed, needs water.
and without goal 7, renewable energy, we will not have enough water and we will not have enough food.
millions of people do not have access to clean drinking water, and i am calling on the commission to develop a concept to meet sustainable development goal 6, clean water, sanitation and hygiene, with new business plans so that we can invest here globally so that people can benefit from this international supply.
i believe that this dossier is particularly important for the next few years, especially if we take into account that the sustainable development goals have a global dimension.
it is therefore essential that we focus on objectives 2, 6 and 7, namely sustainable food, sanitation, water, waste water and renewable energy, and that we ensure that this sustainable investment culture provides incentives for smes in particular to invest accordingly, and that we also create new jobs in these areas, particularly for smes, and that we bring jobs back to europe.
when i listened to the swedish prime minister and then to mr weber and then to mr bullmann, there was one commonality that struck me immediately: it was mrs greta thunberg, who as a climate activist, as she calls herself, is walking across the european news here.
and just so there are no misunderstandings here: i am for climate protection, i am for nature protection, i myself, when i was young, helped to protect the au in austria, but you cannot be excused by this almost sacred statement by mrs thunberg: we have since today been informed of an investigation by global 2000 that a new reactor is to be put into operation in mochovce.
it's a joint meeting of the environmental committee and the petitions committee, based on a citizens' petition about the proven funding of climate denial reports and climate denial research by exxon and exxonmobil.
we are creating new supervisory competences through a combination of new supervisory and control powers against money laundering and terrorist financing, direct european supervision of certain cross-border financial transactions, less red tape and better consideration of different sizes, risk profiles and complexities, more supervisory convergence through better instruments and new no-action letters and coordination groups, more consumer protection and the consideration of sustainable risk factors, more supervisory input into decisions on third country rules and stronger democratic accountability to the european parliament.
i think in sudan, it's important that we focus on the sustainable development goals, especially goal 2 - safe and sustainable food - and goal 6 - clean water and sanitation.
we could fight many diseases by developing strategies here and applying investeu here as soon as possible and, of course, objective 7, renewable energy.
investeu will increase efficiency and reduce red tape by bringing together 14 different financial instruments under one roof, and we will strengthen the implementation of climate and environmental objectives by requiring at least 55% of infrastructure investment to contribute to them in future.
and if we see that 55% of this amount is now earmarked for climate investment and 35% in horizon europe, then we see that europe is making a very progressive policy and that this, of course, means that we must have a leading position internationally.
firstly, ms von der leyen, i would like to congratulate you for striking the right balance on climate change, on energy policy and on protecting the environment.
we have to improve our energy efficiency.
we have to reduce co2 emissions, and we have to do it in a responsible way: by measuring the economic, the social, the environmental impact of the measures that we take; by standing by the side of the people and of the regions that are affected and by strengthening the economy, by strengthening the competitiveness of our economy.
it is about real action on climate change.
in addition, faced with existential and global threats, starting with climate, we will have to unite the major players such as china, india and the middle east, otherwise the low-carbon economy remains illusory on a global scale.
after today, it will be very important that we implement the talk, and i’m ready to walk alongside you in delivering a stable energy market and a forward—looking and modernising industry, one that embraces technology and innovation in order to make sure that our continent is even more competitive.
thank you for listening to the social democrats' demands for greater ambition in climate policy.
in denmark, the new government has set a target of a 70 percent reduction in co2 emissions by 2030. as president of the european commission, will you ensure that those countries which want to take the lead are given the opportunity to do so?
i hope you will take the lead in making the eu a climate union.
if we want to tackle climate change, if we want to define the digital age by european standards, we need to stop disappointing people by always just enforcing the lowest common denominator.
mr president, the objectives of combating climate change are global, but the key measures to achieve them are local.
urban mobility is a great tool to turn citizens' concern about the climate emergency into effective emission reductions, into concrete, balanced, sustainable and realistic actions.
cities and regions need to have all the community support, economic and technical, to be able to plan sustainable urban mobility, such as the excellent commission guide to planning sustainable mobility.
we need laboratories like the one that is being set up in the basque capital these months and networks for the exchange of experience, and we welcome the clear signals sent by europe, which is responsible for setting maximum permitted emissions, to those who, as has just happened with madrid central, are making electoralism out of such a serious matter.
and, commissioner, we have a problem with the enforcement of these laws that goes back to the 1980s: 13 infringement proceedings for excessive nitrogen dioxide emissions in some member states; 16 for fine particulate matter emissions.
you cannot be blind when some try to close down madrid central, when it has been successful, by reducing by 17 percent the nitrogen dioxide emissions in the city.
mr president, one of the perverse effects of globalisation has been rampant urbanisation and worrying pollution.
today, the formidable challenge of green cities is faced with the stark reality of ever-increasing pollution and a multiplication of flows and human and economic interactions.
i wish to express here the wish for a radical awareness-raising so that we can find the phenomenon of metropolisation at the source of the pollution of our cities and the serious damage to our health.
mr president, 400 000 people a year die prematurely in europe because of air pollution, 40 000 in the uk.
so let’s be clear at the start of this mandate that protecting public health and removing environmental risks to health should be one of our first and foremost priorities and it’s why we must demand more ambition on climate change and sustainability from ms von der leyen.
and it is why i speak today to remind us that brexit won’t just be an economic disaster for my country, it will be an environmental disaster as well.
i also applaud the work happening in cities like leicester and nottingham in my constituency: big efforts to reduce vehicle emissions and promote sustainable transport.
finally, when positive environmental progress is attacked and undermined we must defend that progress together.
the new right-wing populism we see today is a real and present danger to progressive environmentalism, so if we are serious about that better carbon neutral future with clean air for our kids to breathe, then we must speak out when that progress is threatened.
it is good that we have made environmental policy a very relevant issue for the majority in this house.
but we also have a responsibility to do what is sustainable, which is perhaps a little more complex to do, but above all, it is effective.
we, the young, are the ones who suffer from the failures of the last few years, and it is also worth mentioning that many climate romantics here unfortunately want to solve the problem by banning diesel vehicles or by creating car-free zones in cities.
instead of a prohibitory culture or a hypocritical control mania in the eu, we really need incentives for climate-friendly technologies.
the promotion of alternative energy sources, as was also mentioned yesterday by mrs ursula von der leyen, must be a priority throughout europe.
how can we reduce emissions across the board?
in the fight against climate change, there is no greater supporter than our sustainable but managed forests.
the forestry sector is a key sector in the eu's energy policy.
the climate is changing.
we need public money to be able to deal with the climate change impacts in our forests.
we cannot be expected to meet the climate targets in europe and at the same time import meat from mercosur countries, when we european farmers actually produce enough regional products of sufficient quality and quantity.
only they can develop solutions to climate change through research and development in the field of renewable energy, with a corresponding broad impact on the population.
we need to ramp up research, we need to ramp up innovation, and we need to ramp up investment in the areas which will gear us to a modern green economy that can address the future and address climate change adequately.
europeans deserve to have food that is safe, sustainable and of good quality, produced close to home, and that is why the conditions in which european farmers operate must continue to be safeguarded.
question on the 'blue card' procedure: could you perhaps specify which measures in the fight against climate change you think have no proven effectiveness and should therefore not be budgetary for us?
it is about greater cooperation in security and justice, and it is about fighting climate change and the existential threat it poses.
we need to focus on what the global challenges of the coming decades - such as digital technologies, environmental change, long-standing violent conflicts or intergenerational poverty - mean for children's lives and opportunities.
there is a lot of bad going on around the world in terms of children's rights: war, displacement, violence, genital mutilation, climate change, forced labor, forced marriage.
sustainability, to me, is not a question of either-or, but the interplay between environmental protection and economics, environmental protection and mobility, and so on and so forth.
we are certainly on the right track with investments in research, youth and climate protection.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take action against infringements of the rules on the protection of the environment.
one thing cannot be emphasized enough in this context: we must move away from this outdated idea of a single physical establishment and create a tax environment in which transactions are taxed where they are made.
we know that it's not just harmful to biodiversity, it's not just harmful to pollinators, it's harmful to birds in the field, and it's harmful to our own health.
this could happen, for example, in a sustainable cap, which has not been the case so far.
i have to say, madam president, modern, climate-friendly agriculture needs standards that enable sustainable food production on our family farms in europe.
if we are serious about the green deal, imports from third countries must meet equally high environmental and climate standards.
but there is a legitimate doubt about the mercosur deal in terms of production standards, sustainable production requirements and animal welfare.
the aim is to enable every consumer to make a climate change-friendly purchase by buying local products.
we farmers and forestry workers are very concerned about the environment and climate, which is the basis of our livelihood.
meat producers, such as those in brazil, who can produce large quantities at low cost, could continue to increase their exports and production significantly, with fatal consequences for the environment and the european internal market.
the poisoning of man and nature by the widespread use of pesticides in mercosur agriculture is a well-known problem, including environmental toxins which are banned in europe.
it starts with climate change, environmental protection, empowering small farmers, protecting biodiversity, importing soy, trading food for machines.