we also ask horizon to fund programmes for independent research into both the impact on human and animal health and the impact on the environment.
protecting our environment is a citizen's priority.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97).
we do have one of the strictest systems in the world, but improvements are possible and necessary to ensure public confidence in science-based policies and to ensure the protection of public health and the environment.
finally, i hope that this report can stimulate a wider debate on more sustainable agriculture.
the scope of the applications that may arise from vehicles being able to communicate with each other and with their environment is not yet clear.
however, there is still a sizeable investment gap in europe, especially when it comes to social infrastructure and investments in the environmental and digital transition.
some of your amendments are linked to the broader mff discussion, such as the overall amount of currency and the climate targets.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
mr president, the environment committee has indeed given its full support.
compared to the current, ongoing efsi programme, the share of investment in renewable energy and energy savings is already very ambitious.
we are now at 19%, but we naturally want to make bigger and faster progress with the new investeu programme, especially in the field of renewable energy.
it is good that climate and sustainability are a common thread running through the whole investment programme.
we are convinced, as is the environment committee, that a strong industry and investment in a strong industry in europe with many jobs can go hand in hand with sustainable and low-carbon production.
in short, as mr kelly has already said: investeu is the flagship, it is the most important instrument we have for europe's leadership, especially for the energy of the future which must be sustainable, which must be affordable and which we must not import, but which we must generate ourselves.
technological changes, energy transitions and ecological transitions, which are also important in the context of business restructuring, must also be taken into account.
when we are working on the support of workers, it is of course important to train workers, but if there is no job creation for these workers, we are in difficulty with regard to their reintegration into the work environment.
this means that we have defined criteria to deal with problems of sme promotion, security, climate change.
the committee on budgetary control recommends that the european investment bank should increase its investment in green energy even further, even though it is already 25% above the target of 22.8%.
the committee on budgetary control, for example, also wants the european investment bank to invest more in disadvantaged regions: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european union's policy on the environment.
on climate, the united states remains climate-sceptic, refusing to commit to cop21.
negotiating in this context would be to deny the climate emergency to which we as europeans are also particularly attached.
we could maybe have the best single market in the world when we also have a single market in the markets of the future – digital, energy, capital.
i think there is one good solution: create one regulator at european level and, automatically, we shall see the emerging single digital, energy and capital markets.
i think the biggest waste of money for the moment in the european union is the lack and the non-existence of a real european defence union.
the sustainable use of pesticides is something that is of particular concern to all of us, both citizens and farmers.
if we want to improve our environment, ladies and gentlemen, we must support farmers.
in closing, i want to reiterate my thanks to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) for its work on this issue.
in particular, i want to recognise the contribution made by the environment committee chair, ms vălean, the vice-chairs, mr jávor and ms sârbu, and the rapporteur, mr belet, as well as the shadow rapporteurs.
you have made an important contribution to this debate and that can have a practical impact on the accessibility and sustainability of our healthcare systems.
it is also in italy that citizens have spoken out against the return to the priceless and risky energy of nuclear energy.
your country is particularly vulnerable to climate change and faces a possible recession.
and in the face of this, as your speech has shown us, you are turning your back on the opportunity to make the ecological transition the driving force of the italian and european economy.
you could choose to listen to environmental whistleblowers like rossella muroni, innovative entrepreneurs like catia bastioli, or anti-speculation mayors like matilde casa.
we believe that it is by making italy the driving force behind an ecological, solidarity-based and democratic transition that you will give your country a future that is worthy of its history, worthy of its place in the european union.
we in europe often have the complacency to consider ourselves world leaders in climate and sustainable development goals.
we must also look with the same modesty at the sustainable development goals and implement them here.
madam president, we see only the first scenario, where we turn the economic governance story of the european union upside down and turn it into a sustainable development pact.
where is the leadership, when the scientific world is giving us 12 years, no more, to take decisive action to save the climate and little more to save biodiversity?
the real leadership today, ladies and gentlemen, is to put the preservation of our environment, social and economic justice and the defence of democracy and our freedoms at the heart of political action and the construction of europe.
there were 60 young people in this parliament who tried to get a whole parliament to finally put climate policy at the top of the political agenda.
if we want to do paris, if we want to meet paris, we're going to have to do 55 percent by 2030 and be completely carbon neutral by 2050. to achieve this, it is also important that we come to a european climate law which incorporates our commitments made in paris and which imposes important obligations on all member states, so that there can be no freeriders.
madam president, commissioner malmström, i still dream of a europe where we can achieve coherence between our social, agricultural, development, trade and environmental policies.
will you finally bring trade policy into line with the urgent need to combat global warming?
what are our climate values?
we agreed to accept the american sustainability scheme in full compliance with the directive.
in the course of these negotiations, we will also do an external study on an impact assessment on sustainability.
a socioeconomic compass that keeps us on track and offers a real guarantee of a sustainable future.
what good is it to have a balanced budget, which forbids investing in the future, in education, in training, but also in the ecological transition?
i will mention a few: better access to education and training; the importance of decent wages and collective bargaining; reforms that do not undermine solidarity and the redistribution of wealth; and finally investments in the ecological transition.
they addressed important points and their remarks will provide valuable input for the discussions in the council that touch upon many aspects of the european semester, such as the environment, competitiveness and social policies.
gender equality, climate, poverty, health care, growing inequality, and then i myself have spoken about ageing.
we must also step up the fight against global warming, young people are shouting it in the streets, we are proclaiming it with envy in our debates, our symposia and our publications, and yet i have to say that over the period 2014-2020 we have not devoted to environmental protection and the fight against global warming the 20% of the total budget that we had agreed to devote to it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy savings achieved by the conversion of the energy supply to the demand side are not exceeded.
we voted against this relaxation because all the technology is available to meet the nitrogen standard, also in real driving conditions and without a negative impact on co2 emissions.
unfortunately, that money does not go to the authors, who nevertheless put a lot of time, energy and money into their creations.
they are demanding a special belgian climate law.
we already have a flemish climate and energy plan waiting to be implemented and also in the european parliament we have been working on a real climate and energy package in the last parliamentary term, on the way to 2030. today we are giving the green light again for a very concrete measure.
new vehicles must reduce co2 emissions by 37.5% by 2030. the nva, my party, fully supports this.
in belgium, transport accounts for a quarter of co2 emissions.
we have the innovative technology to reduce co2 at the source that is so necessary to achieve our climate goals.
the state of the road market in the union, the working conditions of our drivers and the environment in which our companies are operating are far too serious matters to be left at an unsatisfactory status quo for an as yet unknown period of time.
this adds up to 30% of the plastic waste.
on the other hand, we have made it mandatory to mark packages to warn of their environmental impact.
for food cups and food packaging, the text now sets out an ambitious and sustainable reduction by 2026. we wanted to set targets in figures, but we did not achieve that at european level.
so thank you, mr timmermans, for your commitment, thank you, mr vella, for your enthusiasm, thank you also to mr daniel calleja of the environment dg, to mrs köstinger for the austrian presidency, and then, above all, my warmest thanks to my fictitious rapporteurs, mrs auken and mr boylan, mr paolucci and mr demesmaeker, mr pedicini, mr karl-heinz florenz.
and in my crew, i add, it is essential, the citizens, those millions of mobilized europeans who have urged us, encouraged us to set the cursor very high for the oceans, of course, for the environment, but above all for us and for our children.
7,500 volunteers picked up no less than 11.5 tons of waste, twice as much plastic waste as last year.
we need to make a full commitment to sustainable and responsible management of plastics throughout the value chain.
that's not only good for the environment, but it's also good for the economy and for the climate, because we're avoiding carbon emissions.
it is also essential that producers should now contribute to the disposal of waste.
stopping single use, encouraging reuse and recycling should ensure that no more plastics end up in our environment.
so yes, of course, 'europe is not the main cause of pollution', and i am quoting you, mr timmermans, but it is up to us to be the driving force behind the solution.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, fertilisers are essential for agriculture, but their use can also have a negative impact on the environment and food safety, especially when contaminants are present in these products.
their correct and safe use is therefore essential for sustainable agriculture, food security and environmental protection.
the modernisation of the fertilising products regulation is part of the 'circular economy' package, as this legislation aims to put conventional inorganic fertilisers, which generally follow the linear economy model, on a par with organic fertilisers by encouraging the reuse of raw materials currently disposed of as waste.
the objectives of sustainability, food security and environmental protection go hand in hand with ensuring that our farmers can afford to buy high quality products throughout europe.
well, our security environment is becoming more complex, more volatile, more unpredictable and ambiguous than ever before.
it will improve the ability of the financial sector to take part in the fight against climate change.
you already know that in order to boost sustainable investment, we need a shared understanding of what sustainability entails.
it fills an important gap because it establishes a common understanding of which economic activities can help reach climate and other environmental objectives.
we heard time and again at the conference on a global approach to sustainable finance last thursday, at which high-level representatives from many countries outside the eu, including china, japan, india, morocco and hong kong, were present, that in order to scale up sustainable investment, we need to start by having a common taxonomy.
once complete, this taxonomy will help us develop labels for sustainable financial products or funds.
it will support disclosure and reporting by financial institutions and companies on climate and environmental activities or risks and it will support standardisation, which is also necessary and called for by many jurisdictions.
companies and project promoters will be better able to raise private capital to finance their sustainable activities.
european companies will have a clear standard of what qualifies as sustainable for the purposes of raising finance.
polluting sectors will be encouraged to move onto more sustainable pathways by including activities that contribute to a reduction of emissions.
the taxonomy will help them attract capital to finance this transition and financial companies looking to finance sustainable projects often say that there are too few investable projects and it’s too hard to search them out.
the taxonomy will clarify this and help investors identify bankable and viable green projects, and it will also protect consumers from greenwashed products by providing clarity to end investors who are interested in sustainable investment, but currently have little information about what is sold to them.
i believe that our european sustainable finance strategy can be a game changer, both for us and for other jurisdictions.
by harmonising the way we classify sustainable investments, we can and will continue to be a front runner on sustainable finance globally.
we will start with climate impact and then look at sustainability more broadly with a step-by-step approach.
we have one decade to mitigate the worst impact of climate change on our citizens, businesses and planet as a whole.
climate-focused policies are no longer optional but necessary, and we are refocusing our policies in this way across many sectors.
so let us not miss this opportunity to ensure the financial sector is fully behind this shift and fully contributes towards a climate neutral economy.
the legislation we are about to adopt creates a clear framework for what investments can be labelled as sustainable, as environmentally friendly, as climate friendly.
and that can only happen if we make a clear contribution to environmental and climate goals without doing harm at the same time.
we all know that in the coming years very large investments will have to be made to get to a climate-friendly environment: in the steel industry, in the chemical industry, in the cement industry, you name it.
also in renewable energy, energy efficiency.
this legislation provides clear and justified support for investment in clean and sustainable technology.
the financial world is also definitely on the path to a climate-friendly future.
in a few years, we'll look back on this vote and say, that was the day when the european parliament laid the foundations for a sustainable future.
after more than a year of negotiations, i am convinced that there is a majority today in favour of a progressive and balanced text, a text which asks and answers the question: what is sustainability?
an answer that the financial world desperately needs to make sustainable products.
i invite the commission to further examine how we can determine when an activity is not sustainable or to examine concepts of social sustainability.
but let's start with what we've accomplished today, and that's not a finger-pointing story, but a positive story, an inclusive story in which we exclude no one and invite every industry, every business to make the transition to a sustainable future.
president, the greens and the socialists want us to pump lots of money into europe to save it from climate breakdown and they know very well where they are going to get that money: with the taxpayer, out of your pockets.
we want to invest heavily in renewable energy, we want to invest heavily in nature, in the fight against pollution, but we're going to do it in a much more efficient way.
the energy transition and the ecological transition will have to be largely privately funded, and that is why we are starting here, in the private sector, by making it clear to investors and investors, by clearly defining what ecologically sustainable really means, so that they can make an informed choice.
it's a good first step in the green direction for a conscious and sustainable investor and investor.
but thank you for your leadership, certainly in the fight against climate change.
we have resumed in plenary the debates we had in our previous meetings and i would just like to say that i defended with passionate energy the original position of the european parliament.
at least bogging it down again for years, putting our energy into negotiations with british leaders like mr corbyn or mr johnson, who, in fact, in their hearts despise europe, and this at the moment when we need all our energy, to put all our energy into the reform, in the renewal of our european union.
but labour mobility can only be sustainable if it is conducted in a fair way.
first, for us greens the european project must resolutely choose to be a leader: the engine of the ecological transition of our societies.
we should make sure every euro-cent spent on it is used and contributes to the transformation of our agricultural model so that it reduces co2 emissions and restores biodiversity and the quality of our soil.
a more just, more sustainable, more free and democratic europe is what our citizens want.
once again, we have the opportunity to vote on concrete measures to combat climate change.
co2 emissions from heavy goods vehicles account for 6% of total emissions in the european union and a quarter of road transport emissions.
these emissions are still rising, including in my own country, flanders.
if we are to meet our climate commitments effectively, we must also green the truck fleet.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive.
because tomorrow, in the last plenary vote of this parliamentary term, we will have a second chance to vote on very concrete measures to combat climate change and air pollution.
my own government, the flemish government, is also committed to a sustainable purchasing policy.
this change is necessary in the light of the fight against climate change, but also to improve the air quality in our cities and towns, especially in my own country.
i urge you to listen to researchers to protect the health and environment of europeans.
ladies and gentlemen, we have negotiated for the past year with one goal in mind: we need to raise 180 billion euros a year to meet our climate goals.
personally, i firmly believe that today we are laying the next cornerstone for a sustainable future.
a sustainable future that offers our children and grandchildren the same opportunities as our generation.
if we can believe the climate protesters, today is not five, but ten over twelve.
we should have intervened 20 years ago on climate.
sustainable investments must be rewarded.
it is the only way to avert the next financial, economic and climate crisis.
thirteen municipalities are already catastrophe zones and make us reflect on the proliferation of extreme atmospheric phenomena linked to climate change.
so this expression of solidarity is also a call for the climate emergency to be a priority in this legislature.
mr president, commissioner, when we know that forest goods and services contribute to 9 of the 17 sustainable development goals (food production, clean water supply, carbon capture and storage, biodiversity and, too often forgotten, reducing inequalities), the interest in forests should really be put back on the political agenda.
finally, i repeat with my colleagues that biomass is a fundamental issue and we know that it is a real aberration, a hypocrisy, to use it as a source of renewable energy.
if we want to respond today to rising inequality on the one hand and the lack of effective climate action on the other, we must first and foremost break with austerity and allow massive public investment in our infrastructure.
and finally , let's break up this carbon trading that allows multinationals to profit at the expense of the climate.
but let me also be very clear: we will not accept access into our european market for products with lax financial oversight, in the case of the financial sector, or low environmental standards and low animal-health standards.
i'm thinking about artificial intelligence and medical 3d printing, but also the correlation between environmental factors and epigenetics.
we must seize the opportunity of this moment to turn the climate challenge into an economic opportunity and ensure sustainable and shared prosperity for all, by investing in research and development and innovation.
banning these should be a key priority because we don’t only need to fight against cancer but also against its causes, and this would perfectly fit in the zero-pollution ambition of the incoming commission.
only with an ambitious budget will we be able to meet the new priorities in the fields of climate, youth employment, training, research and the strengthening of the euro area.
we also need an ambitious common agricultural policy to protect our farmers and their incomes so that they can produce healthy, sustainable, affordable and quality food that is environmentally friendly.
mr president, i do not want to waste our time.
i don't know if anyone will object to this request, but we have a request here to debate two particular elements related to climate change.
it seems to me that we already have a debate on climate change on our agenda and i would say that we could already allocate a one or two hour slot at each session to discuss the most recent manifestations of climate change.
so we are not going to oppose this, but if i may, i would invite our friends in the epp group to perhaps support more ardently all the measures that can help to combat climate change rather than demanding this kind of debate at every turn.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we want an ambitious budget for the union, we must be united behind the draft report by our two rapporteurs, whose work i of course welcome here, and vote massively in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the year 2020. given the events of the past week and their negative impact on the negotiations on the budget of the european union, we cannot rule out the use of provisional twelfths, which implies the reproduction of the current budget in monthly instalments, and which would further delay the achievement of our ambitions and priorities, whether they be climate, social or economic.
by voting massively tomorrow, we are sending a strong political signal of unity for a major budget that can respond quickly to today's emergencies and meet the concerns of our citizens for the climate, youth, the new economy.
that means that more needs to be done on climate.
the eu's budgetary efforts should also be directed towards research and development of sustainable technologies to improve competitiveness.
despite our overall negative assessment of this budget, we have not failed to put forward proposals which i would like to draw to your attention and which, if approved, will represent improvements, punctual, of course, but important: strengthening the youth employment initiative, assistance in disaster situations, support for the productive sectors and smes, among others, in addition to the creation of pilot projects in the field of climate change, adaptation to drought, in the field of maternal and child health, among others.
parliament returns the draft budget but goes further, this year emphasising climate priorities by €2.7 billion over the commission's original proposal.
we need a strong eu budget to meet the challenges of the future: implementing the paris agreement on climate change, building a european social union and fighting youth unemployment.
we have heard it before: two billion more for climate protection, 500 million more for youth, a fund for sea rescue.
we need disarmament instead of rearmament and billions for climate and social security instead of billions for armaments.
the un political declaration rightly starts from the approach of 'health in all policies' and from the sustainability goals.
first of all, the environmental factors.
we cannot talk about health without talking about a healthy environment and protection against harmful substances.
it has also been my experience that to really achieve meaningful and lasting change in attitudes and beliefs, you not only have to condemn and be bold or sound sad, but also promote education programmes and community dialogue for concrete and sustainable results.
violations of children's rights are rife in europe and the world: hotspots, detention of migrant children, 30,000 children of migrant origin reported missing in europe, non-respect of the right to privacy and family life for lgbt children and families, responsibility towards european children of foreign fighters, death of one in four children related to environmental risks, risk of poverty for one in four children, child labour affects 150 million children.
we see it every day, all the climate mobilizations, like girls speak out, show that they want to get involved.
our policy on the economy, the environment, the single market, trade and our engagement with third countries is building a framework for that future.
the european parliament is ready to declare a climate emergency.
you said it over and over again: the goal is to achieve a zero-carbon society by 2050. but to achieve this we must now also ensure that our policies are consistent.
but there are two sectors in which i do not see any coherence, two main sectors which contribute a great deal to co2 emissions, namely agricultural policy and trade policy.
as you said, for our children, for future generations and for the climate marchers, i believe that beyond the speeches and the political declaration of climate emergency that this parliament will proclaim this week, we need concrete actions and binding measures today to ensure that our free trade agreements also respect the paris agreements.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
do all three institutions really want to build a sustainable development framework for the european union, or do they just think in terms of a one-year budget?
then we finally reached an agreement that reconciles our climate priorities with those for youth employment and innovation.
we are strengthening the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme by making the climate emergency an economic perspective.
we are greening budgets for growth, competitiveness, but also for transport and energy infrastructure.
based on the mandate received from the european parliament, we defended our positions with the will to establish a budget that reflects the expectations of our citizens and we obtained an additional 850 million to implement our priorities, including more than 500 million for the climate alone.
in 2020, 21% of the eu budget will be spent on the climate emergency, not 20%.
when will we stop the climate hysteria?
we need to increase jobs, growth and trade and to protect our environment while ensuring europe can remain competitive.
you propose to increase the european carbon tax.
it is precisely against this carbon tax that the yellow vests have revolted in france, belgium and elsewhere and this, frankly, cannot be accepted.
today, there are 125 million europeans who live in energy poverty, who cannot warm themselves in winter, who cannot live with dignity by turning on the lights.
the eu has a long history of supporting the development of clean energy, but it has not yet broken with the ets system, with emissions trading.
such a follow—up initiative should build on the values enshrined in our treaties and contribute to the implementation of the european pillar of social rights, as well as of the sustainable development goals.
it wants to take the fight against climate change and involve our partners worldwide.
this agreement contains a very strong sustainability agreement.
but how can we achieve a zero-carbon society by 2050 while continuing to conclude free trade agreements as we have for the past 20 years?
the mercosur agreement will boost co2 emissions.
did you know that for the agricultural sector alone, the amount of additional co2 emissions will be equal to the amount of emissions generated annually in brussels?
at the madrid cop, brazil made a name for itself by preventing an ambitious climate agreement.
the green deal provides for all sectors to contribute to the ecological and social transition.
we are resolutely choosing to shift to a sustainable economy and a sustainable world for our children.
we must also consider the ecological effects of our trade policy.
our agriculture is the cornerstone of our climate policy, and we are doing it right.
but our european farmers do meet the highest environmental standards in the world.
this allows the import duties for high-quality beef and veal to be reduced from 40% to 7.5% for 99 000 tonnes, while the carbon footprint of brazilian beef is just twice as high as that of belgian white and blue.
should we import beef at all costs while supporting the sector here with subsidies or should we put more emphasis on the ecological aspect of trade?
but sustainable development and a strong trade policy in the context of the eu-africa strategy are also essential.