we must act now to shape this change and to make european mobility more sustainable, safer and more accessible.
let me say a few words about how to achieve sustainability.
transport is a major contributor to both greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution.
our commitment to fighting climate change thus requires the decarbonisation of our mobility.
vehicles become increasingly clean, connected and automated and ultimately driverless, with zero-emissions.
we really have no time to waste.
the 'invest eu' programme also needs to help smes to be competitive in the fast-changing environment of global competition and the use of new technologies.
last, but not least, parliament, in particular the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), proposes significant amendments to the health strand for the esf+.
in accordance with this policy objective, the esf+ should support a number of specific objectives, of which the first is to improve access to quality and sustainable employment that adheres to all existing union labour laws and respects the rights of all job seekers – in particular the young and long—term unemployed and inactive people – while promoting self—employment and the social economy.
so, in addition to threatening their health, we are also threatening biodiversity and the livelihoods of beekeepers.
so the eib is doing a lot in the fields of addressing climate change and environmental projects, but the bank must also be aware of the portfolio risks.
it has increased significantly climate financing but everything depends on the clients as to whether there are viable, bankable projects.
it would be a political debate, for instance on the question of the trajectory towards zero carbon, which is a very important issue for the bank, and i think we are on the right track.
we are doing this by investing more than 23 billion over the last five years in renewables, by pledging to go all the way up to 100 billion since paris for climate change and we are ready to do more, not only on the projects side but also on the financing side.
the invention of green bonds by the eib was one of the major steps in the preparation of the international finance community in order to address climate change issues.
if i listen at international conferences to the presentation of other institutions and admire their enormous figures on climate change-related projects, and i then go a little bit more deeply into what is in there, what is behind that, then i find out that we don’t read from the same textbook and we don’t have the same criteria, and we must arrive at that.
we need similar things for sustainability awareness bonds because there we have the same issue, the same challenge, and we have developed the first sustainability awareness bonds for water projects because the markets are particularly far advanced there, so comparability can be achieved, but the next issues will have to be health-related and education-related and there it will be very difficult again.
the pivotal role of the bank is to ensure value-adding strategic public investment supporting sustainable growth and creating high value jobs within the eu.
this financial resource was dedicated to four strategic areas: innovation and skills; infrastructure; environmental projects; and smes and midcaps.
at the same time, you will agree that a proportion of 80-10 is anything but a sustainable balance and clearly, here, there is a challenge to be met.
it is logical that rice offered and imported into the european union from third countries should meet these social and environmental requirements.
respect for each other and constructive dialogue are the only way to a sustainable solution of disputes.
climate change shows that it's not an unlimited resource.
i supported today's report because i believe it is necessary to promote resource efficiency and reduce pressure on the aquatic environment.
one such solution is to promote the development of safe reuse of treated waste water.
it's where they get into the soil and the environment.
the report we adopted today on the sustainable use of pesticides is of paramount importance for the future of europe.
unfortunately, though, pesticides are the ones that have the greatest impact on the environment.
i join the commission in calling on the member states to take all necessary measures to promote low-risk pesticides and to give priority to non-chemical options and methods that cause the least harm to health and the environment.
stable and sustainable ecosystems are a prerequisite for a clean environment and hence a variety and safety of food for european citizens.
however, no economic growth can be achieved without a stable and secure environment.
5g infrastructure will be the backbone of our digital economy, providing mission-critical services, not only for consumer services, but for a myriad of other sectors – transport, energy, health, defence and the security sector – and it will not be easy to replace once it is installed.
but i would like to draw your attention to one of the causes of air pollution, and that is the burning of tires, pants, clothes and all kinds of other garbage in a number of roma slums in many countries of eastern and central europe.
this support is valuable to us as we see this action plan as a prime example of environment, development and trade policies acting in a mutually supportive way.
the proposed revision of the drinking water directive, now under discussion, and the proposal on transparency and sustainability of risk assessment in the food chain, where the institutions have reached a political agreement.
i welcome the fact that, under the proposal, the member states will fulfil their obligations to centralise and develop all aspects of the common european asylum system, develop legal migration channels, promote the integration of third country nationals, ensure effective and sustainable returns and give meaning to the notion of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the environment is a concern for all of us.
to my great regret, according to the latest statistics, the capital of my home country bulgaria, sofia, is the 15th most polluted city in the world in terms of environmental and air pollution.
in addition to the global aspects of tackling industrial emissions from factories and plants and those from the transport sector, we also have to tackle the social factor of ignorance, poverty and lack of understanding of the problem.
i think we need to invest in environmental awareness so that we don't have to invest a lot more in healthcare later.
the union is tackling air quality through a number of specific legal measures: a low-emission mobility application, an energy union, reform of the common agricultural policy, new national emission ceilings, new limits on air pollution from large combustion plants.
the union devotes considerable resources to projects to reduce air pollution.
bulgaria's main priority is to reduce air pollution from poor-quality domestic heating, especially in roma slums.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
these good economic conditions are an opportunity to focus on creating the conditions for sustainable economic growth that is socially just and environmentally sustainable.
the environment committee believes that a green economy and investments in more efficient healthcare systems are key to the well-being of european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of climate change is not being discussed for the first time in this chamber.
first, it is the increase of the contribution of the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund to climate change objectives by 35% and 40% of the cohesion fund respectively.
the alde position is to maintain the concentration of resources towards a smarter and lower carbon europe.
in the european parliament, we work for a cleaner environment, for cleaner parks, streets, beaches and mountains.
eighty percent of the waste on the beach is plastic.
we also plan measures to use and recycle the plastic waste already accumulated - by 2025, 25% of bottles must be made from recycled material.
with the new legislation, we want to make it mandatory to clearly state on the labels the negative environmental effects of the disposal of plastic cigarette filters in the street, as well as for other products such as plastic cups, wet wipes and hygiene products.
i believe that on the old continent, we can all together be drivers of change, set global trends and fight pollution for the sake of our children and ourselves.
it is well known that effective and efficient insolvency procedures are an element of a good business environment.
we welcome the fact that the proposal strengthens the fund's link with the protection of the environment and ecosystems, and we propose that 30% of the budget be directed towards mitigating the effects of climate change.
we hope that measures for sustainable fisheries tourism, which have added value in terms of job creation and diversification, will also be included.
moreover, it must become the guiding light for achieving superior competitiveness of european businesses on the basis of fully-fledged social partnership, collective bargaining and environmental sustainability.
mr president, in recent years the international environment has changed significantly and we have witnessed a number of cyber-attacks led by both state and non-state actors during the electoral process in the us, france and other countries.
i also believe that we should put more emphasis on climate urgency, which is completely underrated so far.
i support any system and any world order that is based on international law and on respect for human rights and, of course, sustainable development.
from syria to libya, from venezuela to iran, the eu must build the right consensus in order to find sustainable solutions to these ongoing crises.
mr president, while there are numerous issues on which the european union must play a greater role in the world – be it the united nations security council reform, climate change, supporting the international criminal court, or arms control agreements – there are many challenges within the european union itself that need to be tackled to enable the eu to be efficient in its role.
unfortunately, climate change is also affecting regions that have so far remained calm, like the arctic, but the eu needs to invest more of its focus and develop a strategy to keep a lid on tensions in the arctic.
given the recent developments in the volatile international environment, the european union, more than ever before, needs an ambitious implementation of this strategy.
mr. chairman, i'm elected from bulgaria, a country with huge problems with air pollution and related diseases.
the first is that only part of the pollution in our cities is caused by road transport.
mr. chairman, we are all concerned about the climate crisis.
i would say more than that: we are concerned about the overall environmental crisis that threatens the water, forests and food security of our continent and our planet.
my answer is that no policy can succeed unless it is first of all geared to the needs of the people, that is to say, a policy which saves farmers rather than ruining them; which supports small businesses rather than bankrupting them; which ensures that europe's metal, steel and aluminium industries are preserved; a policy which develops and modernises energy and coal areas rather than protecting and depopulating them.
in the face of climate change, we're underestimating forests, which have not only an economic function, but also an environmental function.
mr president, there is much work and much work to be done to stop climate change, but it is also important to remember what has already been done and achieved.
the commission has adopted a large package of clean energy measures, an ambitious waste directive and new emission limits for new cars, including for the first time for lorries.
so some really impressive decisions have already been made, but now we know that we need to step up even more and raise that 2030 emissions target to 55 percent.
the european union must take global leadership on climate policy.
madam president, commissioner, the need to combat climate change is not a matter for political debate.
only then will it be possible to reconcile ambition in the fight against climate change with strong industrial leadership on the part of europe, while preserving our way of life.
madam president, having the honour of representing parliament at the paris agreement and in marrakesh and, last year, in poland, and being a rapporteur for the renewable energy file, i welcome this discussion because things have moved up a gear.
it is now, as was rightly said, a climate and ecological emergency, and young people, in particular, have pointed that out to us.
when we were doing the renewable energy file, we said that the targets could only be increased upwards.
madam president, this house is prolific in reports, resolutions, speeches, vows of commitment to combat climate change and defend the planet.
it comes with the carbon market that sacrifices the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to the business done with the licenses to pollute.
they have covered a wide spectrum from agriculture to industry, from energy to buildings, from citizens to our national economy.
as i said at the beginning of this debate, stepping up the fight against climate change is now more urgent than ever and the eu has to show determination.
we have to show leadership, we have to act as a global leader in climate action, and we as presidency are working hard so that we can achieve that position.
we are also aiming at an agreement on the eu long-term carbon neutrality strategy.
it would be a great achievement if we all could agree on eu being climate-neutral by 2050. and as soon as the new commission takes its place, and if there’s a proposal on the just transition fund, i’m optimistic that the member states would welcome such a proposal and it will be included in the upcoming seven-year budget, the mff.
just transition is key and we should all approach climate in that way.
so as our presidency motto says, let’s work together for a sustainable europe, for a sustainable future.
the sustainable development of countries and the health of their populations also involves identifying and continuously implementing the most effective measures to combat factors that have a negative impact on the environment.
climate change and its effects must be contained as a matter of urgency, through concrete action by each eu member state, but also by the eu.
a continuous, synergistic effort is also required to protect the environment, minimising climate change and its devastating effects.
efforts should also be directed towards raising citizens' awareness of ways to protect the environment through individual action.
the union has set itself the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, and this target can only be achieved through progress by each member state to ensure the transition to a climate neutral eu in line with the paris agreement.
the events related to climate and environmental issues, which took place in several countries around the world, demonstrate the growing importance of this issue for people and young people in particular.
the protection of the environment, in all its forms, as a universal common good, unique and fundamental to life and health, as the primary place where the existence of present and future generations develops, is an objective to be pursued at all levels to prevent the balance between ecosystems, biodiversity, human well-being and living beings from being compromised.
we must act now, by pushing governments and the international community to enact rules that are universally recognized as necessary to change our lifestyles, to make them more responsible and sustainable.
we need a circular economy, we need to incentivize renewables, we need to regenerate our cities, we need to focus on cleanup, we need to take all those actions that are directed at reducing emissions and energy waste, and we need to make a complete transition to clean energy.
building an economy and a society that makes the environment and innovation the keystone on which to build new opportunities for well-being and employment will be the best thing we can do for our planet, for ourselves and for future generations.
the european union's commitment to maintaining its leading role in the fight against climate change is a certainty.
following the 2015 paris agreement, the 'zero carbon' target proposed by the future european commission opens a new and ambitious stage, which responds to citizens' concerns.
the european elections in may this year have shown us all that for european citizens, climate change is a real problem and that we are responsible for solving it.
at the same time, we have an equal responsibility to economic development, job protection and the social impact of the changes required to reduce carbon emissions by 50% by 2030. taking the example of the decarbonisation of road transport, mainly achieved by heavy-duty vehicles, we must commit ourselves to making the transition to low-carbon technologies and fuels without affecting the lives of the over 6 million europeans working in this industry.
on the other hand, the energy transition involves major systemic changes, from technology, infrastructure and new economic models, to social norms and new consumption habits, which we must do without jeopardising the economic security of citizens.
we will have to see how we strengthen the national authorities in the advisory function and the audit function, and also ensure through technical support that they are sustainable, that they are doing a good audit and that the application process is fair, correct, clear and transparent to applicants.
the protection of the cypriot eez against the interests of the large american, french and italian energy groups is also unfounded.
the european commission has already indicated months ago that the mhp company does not comply with our environmental and animal welfare rules.
you are aware that this is at the expense of european farmers, the environment and the inhabitants of these giant stables.
and it seems that we take into account more the huge reserves of energy resources and the possibilities of transporting them to european markets than the serious geostrategic situation of the region.
mr president, i do not think there should be any special legislation for environmental activists, in the sense that all countries in the european union have legislation that protects all citizens.
the european union is preparing to invest hundreds of billions in new environmental projects.
on the one hand, we hear constant excuses for why we can't limit the chemicals in the fields, and on the other hand, the declines in biodiversity are terrible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all saying this: bees and pollinators play a very important role in plant reproduction, in maintaining biodiversity, in our agriculture in general.
and i would add that it seems to me important today, absolutely necessary, to invest more in research funds, to invest in research for pollinators and to ensure that farmers are properly trained on how to promote and protect biodiversity and the pollinators themselves.
i hope that the european commission will follow up the european green deal with a concrete commitment to sustainable agriculture without pesticides, without being misled by those who still want to defend intensive agriculture and no longer sustainable.
not only are they children's favourites on tv shows, but they are also the key to a functioning ecosystem.
this should include, in particular, incentives for more sustainable agriculture.
a sustainable society is very well measured by how well it protects its children and protects its bees.
the widespread use of pesticides is not sustainable.
we need to recalibrate it so it's both sustainable and non-toxic.
i am thinking, for example, of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides.
there is even a sectoral plan to eliminate all plant protection product emissions by 2030. however, this will only have a chance of success if farmers are offered a good alternative for the protection of their crops.
failure to harvest is tantamount to food waste and we simply cannot tolerate it any longer.
many young farmers in the netherlands want to become more sustainable, but cannot recoup the additional costs of doing so.
we simply have to take a reasonable position, and i think that the position of the committee on the environment, and of my friend and colleague, pietro fiocchi, is a very normal and reasonable one.
mr president, pollinators are fundamental to the health of the environment and therefore they are fundamental to our health.
and this resolution also calls for the next revision of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides to make clear progress on the establishment of common indicators and binding targets for the reduction of pesticides, following a prior assessment.