how much more forcefully do the peoples of the union need to say that we need to break with neoliberal austerity policies, break with policies that harm the environment, break with welfare state policies?
just last week, tens of thousands of students and workers poured into the streets of brussels to change the course of climate policy.
the union needs a bold policy to tackle climate change.
today, industry is shaping climate policies according to its own needs.
they require political decisions to put a stop to the unchecked and unrealistic actions of multinational companies and binding targets for environmental protection and climate change - even more ambitious than the paris agreement.
this creates positive prospects for the implementation of the european union's energy plans without dependence on third countries, and for stability in the wider region, with states within the european union and states outside the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
madam president, commissioner, we want the european parliament's voice to be heard loudly at a time when multilateral cooperation for the well-being of people and the good of the planet, whether in the context of action on climate change or in solidarity and peace, cannot be taken for granted.
it is therefore important to continue the practice of the annual strategy report on the implementation and achievement of the sustainable development goals and to represent the european parliament each year at the high-level political forum.
our report aims to contribute to the preparation of the european union for the achievement of a comprehensive european union strategy for 2030, to implement the sustainable development goals and to improve their integration into the policies and governance mechanisms of the european union; a development strategy based on education, professional training and the creation of basic infrastructure.
such a large-scale european policy for sustainable development must be based on an analysis of policy gaps and an assessment of the distance to the objectives.
it should set out clear and distinct targets, indicators and actions needed to improve policy coordination and policy coherence for sustainable development at european level.
i would like to conclude by saying that the european union must be a global leader in implementing the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals in cooperation with its member states.
our aim must always be the same: to achieve sustainable development and the wider prosperity of all without discrimination, without tailings and without leaving anyone behind.
my second remark is this: those who, in general terms, deny climate change – you even have people who deny all the scientific evidence – those who want to say that if you want to have a sustainable society we all will have to live in caves munching on grass, should understand that this project fear is not going to fly, because there is a way, if we are consistent and if we move quickly, to have high levels of well-being and still not use the planet as though we have two more planets waiting for us.
but the issue is, the longer you wait, the more difficult it’s going to be and i believe the only way we can get our societies to embrace the idea is to put social sustainability front and centre.
there, i fully agree with mr marias when he says you have to make sure you can convince the people there is a sustainable future for them in this, with a decent job, with decent salaries, with decent social protection.
finally, one remark on cultural sustainability.
we will try to achieve the sustainable development goals without retreat and backwardness.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the gue group believes that the new gas directive cancels out the sovereign rights of the member states to build pipelines with third countries and does not take account of the specificities of each country, which make the role of national energy policies irreplaceable.
the national flexibility to develop energy-efficient relationships is completely lost, particularly when there are still energy-isolated states and regions.
instead of solving the energy supply and security bottlenecks facing the european union with this directive, it will create new problems both in the operation of existing pipelines and where new pipelines are to be built, for example in the eastern mediterranean.
our planet's "lungs" are burning and climate change is rapidly evolving into a climate crisis, leading us into an ecological nightmare.
it's the bloody distribution of energy resources in the region.