new, more efficient products are the key to more sustainable use.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
the local farmer knows best how to produce sustainable food.
in fact, it seems to me that the interests of chemistry were more important than the interests of the environment and health.
i strongly believe that we share the same goal – to maintain food safety, protect citizens and animal and plant health, and safeguard the environment.
so i wish we would stop playing the environment and agriculture against each other, because they go hand in hand.
we need more innovation for more efficient and sustainable products, and this must be supported by the policy framework that the european commission is also setting up, commissioner.
in the field of competitiveness and prosperity, in the field of sustainably safeguarding our prosperity and our environment, we have focused on the sustainable strengthening of the internal market.
sustainability is a major concern for us in the republic of austria, and i am all the more pleased that it has been possible to ensure a ban on certain single-use plastics.
but the reduction of co2 emissions from cars and heavy goods vehicles is also a great success of the council, the commission and parliament together, because there have been successful trilogue negotiations.
we have tried to put more emphasis on the economic development of africa at a forum held in vienna with the african union, in order to improve living conditions on the ground in a sustainable way and also to avoid leaving the continent to the chinese in terms of investment.
and finally, we have made great strides in the environmental field with the ban on single-use plastics and the carbon footprint.
overall, it seems to me that the greatest achievement of the presidency of the council was that you won the very first 'fossil of the day' award at the climate conference in katowice.
for example, how are we going to stop climate change?
how are we going to manage the transition to a carbon—free economy?
they bring jobs to the regions, improve infrastructure, fight climate change, support businesses and universities.
investments are only good if they are sustainable.
but at the same time, i would like to stress that good investment is only sustainable investment.
only investment which learns the lessons of the climate crisis is good investment and therefore it was positive that the compromise coming out of the leading committee foresaw an increase in the share of sustainable investment in the infrastructure window to 65%, and it is important for our group that this house sticks to this proposal.
and of course the call to the european union and all the central american states to take account of the full implementation and ratification of environmental agreements at international level, including the paris agreement.
smes are supported, digitalisation is supported, with strong chapters on public procurement and sustainability.
it sets common values and international standards for human and workers' rights and sustainable development, which offers immense future opportunities, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises in the partner countries.
the climate of violence, repression and murder is not a minor issue.
if we as the eu do not act, there is a risk of more violence, more human rights being eroded and more environmental destruction, not only in colombia, the andean region or central america.
i 'll make it clear: the election of mr bolsonaro as president of brazil and the measures he has announced threaten to clash with the interests of indigenous peoples and climate protection - not only in the region, but globally.
we cannot negotiate a trade agreement with mercosur as the european union with a man who speaks with contempt about human rights and environmental protection.
the issues of environmental requirements, ecology, economization and digitization can lose their grip with some of these funds.
the globalisation adjustment fund must support a sustainable economy in a triad of economic, ecological and social interests of the people.
the european social fund is one of the puzzle pieces needed in order to make that happen: to strengthen the fight against energy and housing poverty, to tackle a just transition and to fight against social exclusion.
protecting europe is reaffirming our commitment to the paris agreement in the fight against climate change.
this commitment is like the one that unites us in the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda, which is a true global contract for the next decade, which must find its main activist and ambassador in europe.
we must consolidate the foundations of economic and monetary union, complementing it with the indispensable basis of political, social and - i would also like to add - environmental union.
strengthening social cohesion, with clear and measurable targets for employment, for social justice and also for the sustainability of our welfare state, is indispensable.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to that idea when i turn to the last part of my speech, which refers to the challenges of climate change and migration.
on climate change, recent international forums have shown the advance of skeptical, resigned, or even belligerent positions.
the energy transition can and must be a vector for modernisation and the creation of opportunities in our countries.
but also cohesion, with the drive for energy interconnections to improve our efficiency and reduce emissions.
because neither authoritarianism nor exclusionary nationalism can deny the evidence that against this challenge of climate change, there is nothing that borders can do.
climate change is fought with reason and science.
the images of these boats and the divisions caused by only a small number of arrivals on our shores show the need for europe to overcome its differences and find a sustainable solution that works for all.
only if we make all these reforms, can we come to a sustainable situation.
prime minister, i know your government’s strong attachment to the sustainable development goals (sdgs), and i know spain needs to make that transformation, as europe needs to make that transformation.
i want to use the opportunity to salute my colleague here, next to me, who has been a leader in the world to make sure that europe can really attain the paris climate goals.
the numerous news that has come from madrid is that it is you, pedro sánchez, that it is possible to put together an intelligent cabinet, a forward-looking cabinet, where competence is bundled, energy and the environment, a high commissioner for the question of sustainability and finally, finally, finally a clear signal not only for gender justice, but also for qualified women in the first row.
secondly, your decision to make sure that families who put up solar panels on their roofs will actually benefit from doing so is a way not only to combat climate change but also to reward people for their own initiative and make sure that everyone will contribute in this big quest to save our planet.
and, if you are going to continue working for a progressive, social, ecological and democratic europe, then you can count on our support.
i would like to draw attention to the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
it's also thanks to you that we operate at an increasingly sustainable and innovative way from issuing sustainability awareness bonds and green bonds, to ambitious climate action targets in our lending.
when we all praised the united nations for defining the sustainable development goals, we were all made aware of the fact that taxpayers' money will never be enough to enable us to reach these objectives.
we're also now developing sustainability awareness bonds, and the first issuance on the market was very successful and encouraging.
at the same time, we finance climate action projects in asia and latin america and support eu diplomacy.
this package demonstrates the shareholders’ strong commitment to the eib, which is key to ensuring that the bank retains its triple a rating and to preserving the sustainability of its lending volume.
firstly, climate change.
the commission fully supports the ambitious climate action strategy of the european investment bank, matching the commitments of the paris agreement.
increased investment in renewable energy and the energy efficiency sector is key to achieving this objective.
as a follow-up action, the commission has been working closely with the eib and other implementing partners on adapting the current compliance procedures of this new environment.
your focus on smes, sustainability, the fact that you're making loans instead of grants, that you're bigger in balance sheet size than the world bank, these are all things that would have actually called for the annual report to be discussed in a larger parliamentary public.
lithuania has now voted in a referendum to give up all nuclear energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
– mr president, let me thank the rapporteur, ms harms, for her introductory remarks and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) for its report, which was adopted on 21 november 2018. the commission is grateful for the debate today and welcomes the vote on the other decommissioning report which took place earlier today.
remarkable progress has been achieved in the dismantling of huge installations and the processing of radioactive waste.
we have fought hard in the committee on industry, research and energy for the funding, and we have finally reached an agreement by 61 votes to 2. but lithuania needs our help, that's clear.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted.
i shall stick to this debate because in the end the rapporteur and i, as shadow rapporteur, negotiated with commissioner oettinger and the lithuanian minister for energy, and a compromise was to be worked out before parliament voted on it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam secretary of state, first of all, thank you, mr president, for allowing me to speak again here in the plenary, and thus, day after day, to consolidate with president juncker the climate of trust, transparency and dialogue that we have built together with you, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular with the brexit steering group, guy verhofstadt and all the members of this group for the last year and a half, at the rate of one meeting practically every week.
among those who are calling for the backstop to be abolished today are british members of parliament - i was listening to one more this morning - who have negotiated with us and who know full well that the backstop is the solution we have found for what is - as jean-claude juncker said - the heart of our obligations and principles as europeans, namely the protection of the internal market in all its dimensions and the rights attached to it: social rights, economic rights, consumer rights, environmental rights and the protection of businesses and consumers.
we will not allow any backsliding on employment rights, environmental standards, consumer protection standards.
and i agree with mr bütikofer that the one-china policy since 1992 can only be justified in a completely peaceful environment.
for our companies, competition is about fair production conditions, environmental costs and decent jobs.
what about the contribution of trade to the fight against sustainability and climate change?
we need implementation of the single market and r&d and innovations, implementation of the internal and external security policies, implementation of migration policies, implementation of climate policies.
the focus needs to be in the areas where the eu is best placed to deliver, such as migration, security, the single market, innovation, digitalisation and climate.
in addition to development cooperation and humanitarian aid, trade and investments are needed to create jobs and sustainable development.
and lastly, the eu must take a lead on climate change action.
the report by the international panel on climate change again reminded us of the threat posed by climate change to life on earth.
i am sure that, as the world moves towards low-carbon development, we are in the front line in developing new technologies, and ambitious climate policy will also support job creation here in europe.
we need measures on three fronts: co2 emissions, carbon sinks and new technologies.
last week, finland hosted a nordic climate meeting in helsinki.
nordic countries gave a promise to raise the level of their climate ambition by 2020. the nordic countries want to catalyse mitigation efforts to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
also in the round-table discussions in the finnish parliament, eight finnish parties set an objective that the eu should achieve carbon neutrality before 2050. that requires tightening the emission reduction obligation for 2030 to at least 55% of the 1990 levels.
the eu emissions trading system (ets) is the most cost-efficient way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
as a small detail, my government decided not to give any eu presidency gifts: instead we used the money to offset the emissions caused by air travel during the presidency.
(applause) second, we need to increase carbon sinks.
we have 100 so-called carbon farmers testing new practices in finland.
oceans and carbonate minerals too can lock down carbon dioxide, and we also need to plant more forests.
as the un food and agriculture organisation’s report on the state of the world’s forests says, the world response to climate change must focus more on forest.
one concrete step we should take in relation to the eu’s external funding is to increase global carbon sinks.
forest investments would maximise the impact on climate and rural jobs in africa.
we also have to think of innovative ways – new incentives and market driven methods – to ensure carbon sinks will be increased.
we must reduce emissions, increase carbon sinks and adapt new technologies to capture co2 from the air or directly from the emission sources.
besides climate change, our focus should be on growth and security, while rule-of-law issues will also remain central.
that is the case when it comes to energy and climate, and this is the case when it comes to developing connectivity infrastructure in the border region of finland.
sustainability is the key word when we talk about financial discipline, and the eu will always have the epp on a national level, and on a european level with us as the epp, and jyrki is also working on this on your side.
then it is about this sustainability, because that means future.
the third point i want to mention in my short contribution today is about, probably the most challenging for all of us, and is what 35 000 school kids told us when there was demonstrating in the last weeks in europe – pope francis is calling it the illness of the earth – and that is climate change.
i want to only underline the approach towards the climate change challenge, some of the principles we, as the epp, believe in.
one principle is that the solution on climate change, to give an answer is not to forbid things, is not to prohibit things, is not to ban things.
the answer is that we as europeans can provide the developing countries with the technologies to have growth without climate impact.
a lot of people here in this room can finance higher energy prices, but outside there are a lot of people who cannot finance higher energy prices.
finally on co2 and climate change: together, we are strong.
so i want to ask you today prime minister to commit to the future, to listen to those young people and to invest in the future when it comes to climate protection, to education and to working together as europeans.
on climate protection, the eu has a huge responsibility and every member state has to play its role.
i’m very happy that you mentioned that you are very committed to that – that you want to go ahead; that you want to have more ambitious climate targets, fantastic!
and you’ve mentioned the important role of carbon sinks as well, and finland is in the lucky position to have a very large carbon sink at hand.
but they are also an important factor indeed in the eu climate policy.
so it is in our common interest to preserve them, and to manage them sustainably but different from what you said – your government actually plans logging of the finnish forests, which are not sustainable, which are absolutely excessive, and they will put the huge asset that you have in fighting the climate crisis at risk.
so i hope that after your very good speech today, your government will reverse that position to save the great natural heritage that you have, but also to preserve the carbon sinks, because if we wanted to achieve a net zero carbon economy in europe by 2050 then we need more forests and not less.
as finland’s eu presidency takes place this summer, i hope to see that your country will then be on the progressive side leading the way forward for a united, fair and climate-friendly european union.
we have discussed the 'big predators' issue on several occasions in both the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment.
in particular, in sensitive areas of high biodiversity, such as the alpine regions, the preservation of grazing livestock must take precedence over the presence of large predators.
so we're debating the sustainable use of pesticides.
we are not talking about gap here, and we are not talking about groundwater pollution here.
but if you want to talk to me about groundwater pollution, you're welcome to.
my father's farm had 80 pigs, mine 800, and my neighbor's -- the next generation -- 3,000. if you call that sustainability, we're not on a course.
i think the very name of this report is misleading: there is no sustainable use of pesticides.
this is an ecological disaster that's happening out there.
we really need to think about how we can get out of this pesticide trap in agriculture - for the benefit of the environment, for the benefit of consumers, but also for the benefit of farmers.
a reliable authorisation procedure and the sustainable use of plant protection products go hand in hand.
after launching the special report on the authorisation procedure earlier this year, we are now taking another step towards more sustainable use.
new, more efficient and less risky substances and products will promote the sustainable use of plant protection products.
unfortunately, mr häusling does not talk much about the fact that the ecological farming industry also has problems, for example the use of copper in ecological farming, and that we still have much lower yields in ecological farming.
integrated pest management is essential for sustainable agriculture and needs to be better implemented in the member states.
we're in the midst of climate change, and you can imagine that we might be treating this precious resource even more carefully.
we have a duty to revive the european project, to restore its credibility and cohesion, so that it can become more sustainable, more effective and more plausible.
europe must commit itself to drawing up a catalogue of best practices in order to achieve a truly equal and sustainable model of cooperation.
the proposed reform of the dublin regulation, approved by the european parliament in november 2017, is not sustainable in the current european union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in the face of the waste of human lives abused, sold, broken, we must all fight together a relentless fight against traffickers and torturers, who represent an affront to humanity, as well as a threat to our security.
the reform effort - and i am of course referring in particular to the one initiated by the italian government with the 2019 budget law - is sustainable on the social level, even before on the economic level, if structural reforms do not become a sisyphus fatigue, which stifles growth and kills social cohesion.
this does not mean that we do not appreciate the value of financial stability: the european union is also committed to the value of social stability and sustainable development.
on the other hand, work and balanced and sustainable economic and social progress are objectives which, following the maastricht treaty, the treaty of lisbon confirmed, but which, ten years after its entry into force, still appear to be far from being implemented.
we must take all the necessary steps to contribute with ambitious determination to the international effort to combat climate change.
prime minister, it is also clear that europe still needs to overcome its differences and find sustainable and responsible solutions.
and finally, we want the full application of human rights, from freedom of expression and assembly to the abolition of the death penalty, and environmental and social progress.
so, you have to do this in a regulated environment.
yes, we recently saw thousands of people taking to the streets all over europe calling on governments to act against climate change.
how can we expect these people now to pick up the bill for transforming the ways we produce and consume to more sustainable patterns while digital giants pay almost zero taxes and the super-rich hide billions in tax havens?
mr katainen said 'we only have one planet', mr timmermans referred to the sustainable development goals.
oceans are enormously important to our climate.
they produce oxygen, they capture co2, but they're also very much affected by the climate, by climate change, by being disadvantaged and disrupted, destroyed in part.
we've already achieved quite a lot through the plastic strategy, through the single-use plastic legislation, through the ship-generated waste disposal in ports.
but there has to be much more, because oceans are also very important for the sustainable future of our planet.
europe has an outstanding opportunity to bring together social, environmental and economic justice issues with the 17 development goals for 2030. this is not only a matter for europe, but also for the whole world.
and just after the previous debate on sustainability, i am pleased to say that we propose that you allocate 30% of the regional policy funds to climate change.
we want the social pillar and the national energy and climate plans to be included in the strategic planning of future operational programmes.
i am very pleased that we are introducing an article which puts general horizontal conditions and criteria such as respect for human rights, gender equality, anti-discrimination, the sustainability goals and many others in the focus of future cohesion policy.
above all, they must also promote these regions in a sustainable way, making them fit for the future.
it is a waste of resources if both the authorities of the member states and the companies or other applicants have to do it 26 or 27 times.
the eu and its member states are united in their support for the npt, which remains the cornerstone of the global nuclear non—proliferation regime, the essential foundation for nuclear disarmament and an important element in the future development of nuclear energy applications for peaceful purposes.
obviously an arms control treaty which is not respected by all of its parties is not sustainable.
of course, a contract that seems to bind only one party is not sustainable in the long run.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
but you still agreed to the buses because you realized that even relative to the individual passenger, it can give a better carbon footprint than, say, even the train.
on the environmental requirements, i would like to clarify that the authorisation procedures proposed by the commission, which are mentioned in mr zīle’s report, provide a clear possibility for member states to impose environmental performance requirements and to control them – provided, of course, that those requirements are imposed on all operators on a non—discriminatory basis.
these reports emphasise the need to continue working to put inland waterways transport in the place it deserves in terms of a reduction of the overall environmental impact of transport.
a key objective of eu transport policy is multimodality, and – as you may recall – i spent a lot of time and energy in 2018 in promoting multimodality.
following the increase in fuel prices by over 150%, a decision which of course triggered violent protests in an already tense political environment, the repression by security forces against demonstrators, trade unions, ngos, opposition supporters, has been unacceptable.
the government will not be able to implement reforms that stand the test of time without an environment that ensures an inclusive national dialogue through which citizens can exercise their freedoms of assembly, association and expression.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on 'a europe that protects: clean air for all' by julie girling, seb dance, jadwiga wiśniewska, catherine bearder, keith taylor, anja hazekamp, eleonora evi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000138/2018 b8-0009/2019).
we usually like to refer to california as having very high environmental standards.
it is one of the most important environmental and health challenges of our time.
do they meet the goal of protecting human health and the environment as a whole from the risk of adverse impacts?
regarding agriculture, the contribution of agriculture to the issue of ammonia emissions has, i agree, to be addressed as well.
through the nec (national emissions ceiling) directive we have started to do just that.
this will provide us with a basis to reflect on whether we have the appropriate legislative framework in place, including sufficiently stringent limit values and suitably clear criteria to guide our monitoring networks, to ensure protection from adverse impacts on, and the risks to, human health and the environment.
so i very much welcome the fact that young people across europe are taking to the streets and demonstrating for more climate action at the fridays for future and also demonstrating for freedom on the internet.
and it's mainly about young people between 18 and 30 years old who are involved in various volunteer solidarity services in theatres, with migrants, with refugees, in environmental protection, in climate policy - everywhere where organizations propose it or where they have their own ideas of what they can do for the european union and for themselves.
from the refrigerator to the coffee machine to the pacemaker, from the energy networks to the ict networks to the transport infrastructure, everything will be connected to everything.
we embrace the wealth of knowledge and potential of our unique ecosystem of small and medium—sized cybersecurity companies.
thanks to the ambitious work of all colleagues involved, the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) has found a solid and balanced report.
we must strengthen the european cybersecurity ecosystem, provide europe with the means to autonomously secure its digital assets and to compete on the global technology markets.
with the general data protection regulation we have already had the opportunity, or we have succeeded, in setting a standard internationally, and if we now succeed in setting international trends in the area of cybersecurity for products, services, systems and the entire ecosystem, then this is a great thing for our european union.
first of all, in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) we have already managed to make it very clear that civil funding cannot be spent on defensive applications, but i think, in order to have a strong position, it’s also really important to make sure that we do not fund activities that could actually undermine civil cybersecurity, such as back doors or hack—backs and other rather offensive applications.
would you ensure that future mergers take into account the impact on the environment, climate and health, but also on farmers' incomes?
my group welcomes the agreement on sustainable forestry with vietnam.
it can become an international model for how we can balance the creation of economic prospects for the population with the protection of nature and the climate.
this is a key building block for achieving the un's 2030 sustainable development goals, especially in southeast asia.
even more serious is the damage to biodiversity and the climate.
the eu commission should therefore urge our trading partners to cooperate in breaking down logging as a business model and effectively promoting sustainable timber management in southeast asia.
my group has fought to rejuvenate the citizens' initiative considerably by lowering the minimum age to 16. young people are very politically engaged, and they are currently taking to the streets in all weathers to make their voices heard, whether it is for a sustainable climate policy or a free internet.
one of the first eu travel bans on human rights violations was imposed in the context of the execution of nigerian environmental activist ken saro-wiwa in 1995. today, it is crucial that we implement the application of entry bans and account freezes against offenders in an efficient, transparent and due process manner.
i refer in particular to the common challenges that we face and the need to cooperate in essential areas of joint interest such as migration, counterterrorism, energy, transport, economy and trade.
but turkey is also, and will remain, our neighbour and a partner of strategic importance for the european union, with whom we work closely on areas such as energy, counterterrorism, trade and migration.
it means that the european union and all its member states are now committed to carrying out the following message: it is not about adapting people to the environment, but it is about adapting the environment to people.
– mr president, it is a pleasure to address you this morning in this priority debate on climate change.
your action and commitment has brought to wider public attention the necessity and urgency to act on climate change.
as the world’s leading climate scientists told us in the intergovernmental panel on climate change report on 1.5 degrees, we must act urgently and collectively now.
the energy union, with a forward-looking climate action, is now in place.
the correct implementation of the european union’s climate and clean energy legislation should allow the european union to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 beyond our current 40% target to around 45% compared with 1990. but targets are not ceilings.
this will be achieved thanks to the clean energy transition framework recently adopted, based on a greater deployment of renewable energy sources and by putting energy efficiency first on the agenda: our target of 32.5% of energy savings by 2030 could even be revised upwards in 2023. this shows our citizens that climate and energy issues are on top of the european union agenda, that this priority is making real progress in europe; then to our international partners that the european union is leading by example and that we turn our pledges into concrete action.
but now is also the moment to look ahead to 2050. we will have to upscale further our policies beyond 2030. the crucial thing is that we can only do it within a deep transformation of our model of economic development, one that delivers both climate neutrality and prosperity and fairness for european citizens.
that is why the commission adopted in november last year its communication ‘a clean planet for all: a european strategic long-term vision for a prosperous, modern, competitive and climate neutral economy’.
the commission’s vision intends to set a clear direction of travel for the european union’s climate policy and contribute to achieving the goals of the paris agreement.
five scenarios achieve at least 80% reductions by 2050 with varying different technologies or introduce circularity and energy efficiency.
to get to the 1.5°c objective we will need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2050. that is why we have developed two scenarios that effectively reach this aim of climate neutrality.
the analysis clearly shows that a climate neutral economy by 2050 is possible, following different pathways, but that it will require an ambitious combination of technologies and action.
this is not only to protect our environment, but also to modernise the european union economy for a sustainable future, increase investment in competitive technologies and defend our citizens’ better quality of life.
it means investing in a much more efficient economy, an economy that relies less on imported energy, an economy that provides for more local, higher-quality jobs.
it is a big responsibility for all of us to lead and demonstrate that a socially fair transition to climate neutrality is not only possible, but also opens enormous economic opportunities.
we are all beginning to suffer the consequences of climate change.
many of us will not be here to see what a profoundly changed planet will look like in 2050. but the young europeans that are taking to the streets, and are doing so in growing numbers and in more and more cities across europe, will be in the prime of their adult life in 2050. i welcome their engagement – they have the biggest stake in the fight against climate change.
we have a little time left to stabilise climate change and fulfil the goals of the paris agreement.
we have sketched out how this can be done and presented a solid analysis of why and how europe can achieve climate neutrality; why this model can be replicated by other countries in the world; how climate neutrality, economic prosperity and social fairness can and must go together.
we must agree on the objective of a climate neutral, prosperous and fair europe in 2050, and on that basis, take the measures and actions that we know can make it happen.
the european commission has presented a vision: we want to be climate neutral by 2050. and the good thing about this vision is that it's backed by facts and scenarios.
students across europe are taking to the streets to fight climate change, and i believe that they will have already achieved a first success when we adopt this resolution tomorrow and support the objective of climate neutrality with great unity.
we as the epp are critical that we decide on a 55% target for 2030 now, because we have just passed the climate legislation.
i am also afraid that if we go too far with this resolution, the member states in the council who do not want climate neutrality in principle will be given arguments that we should not give them.
the epp is very much in favour of a just transition to climate neutrality.
we must enable energy-intensive industry to produce carbon-free, for example the steel industry to produce carbon-free steel.
because we are not a model for the world if we end up being carbon neutral, but industry produces in other parts of the world.
this is why the slogan cannot be 'climate action instead of jobs' or 'jobs instead of climate action'.
we as the epp want climate protection and jobs, and that is why we are fighting for the resolution that is on the table now to be adopted tomorrow without any substantial changes.
we welcome them because they are great and they are the representatives of the youth for climate movement.
another critical issue is climate change, which we have just discussed in this session.
as was noted in this debate, we, as a union, need to help raise global ambition and continue to lead the way on climate action.
this means implementing the current 2030 framework, but also engaging in the long—term transition to a climate-friendly future.
we want to see strong european companies, bolstered by fair competition at home, leading in the world and addressing major challenges such as climate change.
in particular, we urge member states to make the most of major common european projects that matter to all of us, for instance in strategic areas such as next-generation batteries to store clean energy, or the work on artificial intelligence.
it’s high time to deliver on all its dimensions, particularly in services, the digital economy and energy and also, importantly, the capital markets union.
we have already spoken this morning about climate change, and i have an appeal to the commission and to the council representatives: we do not have time.
let's make this spring summit a sustainability summit!
we cannot wait to fight climate change, we must review our instruments, we must make the stability and growth pact a sustainability pact, and the instruments we have to measure and recommend - the semester and how things are technically called - must become sustainability instruments.
we must pick up where antónio guterres left off 20 years ago - today he has the central responsibility for the united nations - when he proposed, under the portuguese presidency, to think together about the economy, the environment, social cohesion and competitiveness.
antínio costa, the current prime minister, has led portugal to a new prosperity with a policy of social cohesion, economic modernisation and environmental policy.
our societies need fresh energy, our economies need air to breathe, and our minds need fresh thinking.
the following are important issues: the eu itself was one of the initiators and a key player in the creation of the paris climate agreement.
the eu has been responsible for ensuring that there will be a un agreement on sustainable development.
the commission has confirmed the sustainability of american soya beans in an emergency procedure, for only two months, and they can now also be blended into biodiesel, which means an additional increase in imports of american soya beans.
and secondly, in july last year we decided not to conclude an agreement which does not refer to and implement the paris agreement on climate change.
today, a few hours before this debate, we discussed climate action.
all this is not reflected in the mandate proposals, not even an impact assessment on the climate impact of this agreement.
they even throw their own principles overboard: although the substantive agreement is supposed to cover more than 90% of all goods traded between the eu and the us, you refuse to allow a study to be carried out to assess the economic, social and environmental consequences.
there is not even a standard chapter on the rules for the protection of workers and the environment in the production of these goods.
you also close your eyes to trump's decision to leave the paris climate agreement - my colleagues have already spoken about this.
but that would be the end of thousands of our farmers, and of our sustainable agriculture.
we are voting now that the disposal of ship's waste in european ports will be improved immediately.
the fact is that we are still allowed to throw some waste into the sea.
however, such a policy does not cause stagnation, as is wrongly claimed, but rather sustainable economic growth.
dear günther oettinger, whether energy or household, today transport is always convincing.
i think that is our core mission, to fulfil these two tasks, to promote young people so that they are well qualified on the one hand, and that is in a way that is sustainable, and on the other hand to support jobs and to support innovation in such a way that sustainable jobs can be created in our european union, competitive with other countries on the planet.
that's why the first thing we demand is the release of nasrin sotudeh, but not only her, but also environmental activists, people who have taken to the streets for social issues, people who are behind bars for ethnic or religious reasons, or journalists and bloggers.
the goal here is to find sustainable and coherent solutions to the issues facing eu aquaculture today, including those relating to the environment, animal health, the use of antibiotics and animal welfare.
i spoke about public goods: yes, we absolutely must have a tax on energy, on the fight against climate change, on corporate tax.
i have spoken about environmental protection, and i am also thinking of financial market regulation.
the tax scandals of recent years have shown how unbridled imagination and, in some cases, criminal energy are used by corporations, banks and wealthy people to evade taxes, avoid them and even openly cheat on them.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
when they introduced the time change, they wanted to save energy.
in fact, you save energy at night, but in the morning you have to use more for heating and light.
the european commission published its proposals for the clean energy package in november 2016. the two dossiers on the new electricity market design are the most extensive, if not the most far-reaching, of the whole package.
this is why it was necessary to redesign the european electricity market and make it fit for the energy transition.
in the electricity market of the future, electricity will have to be increasingly decentralised, investment will have to be made in sustainable energy sources and the still national electricity markets will have to cooperate much more closely at regional level.
energy poverty is also a reality in the eu today, and this is precisely why member states are now obliged to monitor very closely whether their national measures are sufficient to support people affected by energy poverty.
we have achieved a great deal together for the european energy transition and for the citizens of the eu.
– madam president, it’s a real pleasure to be here today to discuss the concluding building blocks of our clean energy for all europeans package.
these four legislative acts – the electricity regulation, the electricity directive, the risk-preparedness regulation and the new rules for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) – are the final pieces in the jigsaw.
with this, we are completing the biggest legislative package the european union has ever had on energy policy, and we are finalising a new, modern rulebook for the energy sector across our continent which is fit for the challenges ahead.
of course, i would also like to thank jerzy buzek, chair of the committee on industry, research and energy, all political group coordinators, and all the shadow rapporteurs involved, without whom these agreements would not have been possible.
we have agreed an ambitious package which will take us one step closer to the completion of the energy union.
taken together, the agreed legislation will ensure that the european union electricity market is more secure, more sustainable and more competitive.
from a consumer perspective, it is the first time that european energy legislation has included so many measures to protect and to empower consumers.
consumers can become active players and individually benefit and drive the energy transition.
the cleaner energy transition will not succeed unless we take consumers along and win broad societal support.
through our energy market legislation, consumers will gain better information.
smart meters will help consumers save energy through adapted consumption and reaction to market prices.
for the first time, the new legislation recognises the concept of citizens’ energy communities.
with these measures, we will follow up on our pledge to put the consumer at the heart of the energy union.
finally, energy security is vital for our business and economy.
with the challenges of the energy transition, we must also ensure security of supply for the economy and for our citizens.
i come now to my third point: to consider what the new electricity market design brings for the environment and sustainability in a more long-term perspective.
we have already agreed ambitious targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency, and the new market design will make a major contribution towards achieving this and will help us to meet our paris agreement commitments.
the markets will become more flexible, more free for increasing sales of renewable electricity.
at the same time, with the new emission limit in future capacity mechanisms we will ensure that the solutions to our security of supply are consistent with our climate objectives.
all of the above will help european industry and economy by giving a clear sense of direction, but it will also reduce local air pollution for the benefit of our citizens.
the result, the new electricity market design, is that we are now setting the stage for a decentralised, sustainable and secure electricity supply so that the energy transition can also succeed at european level.
the choice of energy sources plays a central role in this.
renewables are the energy sources of the future.
and that is why, as the negotiator of my group, i have campaigned for the first renewable energy to be fed into the grid through the feed-in priority system and the last to be cut off in the event of bottlenecks.
at the same time, we have made it clear that in future, high-emission energy sources such as coal will no longer be supported by state subsidies.
and we social democrats have also achieved that in future, citizen energy cooperatives will be given preferential treatment and will not be subject to disproportionate, unfair and non-transparent rules and costs.
is this decisive enough to counter climate change with something substantial that requires renewable energy?
yes, and the question is, is this sustainable enough for energy security in the next few years?
we welcome the maintenance of regulated prices, for example in the electricity market, but we also criticise the half-hearted approach to tackling energy poverty with the soft language we find here.
we're glad that citizen energy -- and i think that's a big step forward -- is getting regulated rights for the first time, especially when it comes to increasing the uptake of renewable energy, which is very, very important.
but, frankly, capacity markets are a very difficult thing to live with, because what we really need is something else, namely a consistent priority of renewable energy sources, not just small power plants, but as a general rule.
a modernised legal environment for copyright will improve their access to european arts, entertainment and quality journalism.
this vote is also about the eu’s ability to tackle the complex and important legal challenges of the online environment.
but this is not about decorative cosmetics, but about a very fundamental social-ecological transformation.
we want to make this clear: social ecological rethinking and structural change are not something that can be done at zero cost.
in particular, we call for a minimum of 40% of erdf funding to be allocated to projects in the field of social and ecological change just transition in all regions.
secondly, we reject the idea that an ambitious catalogue of socio-ecological conversion can encourage investment in the construction of airports or even in fossil energy technology.
the social-ecological structural change must be actively designed - we remain on the left.
this fund is in fact for research, for innovation, for new jobs, for the fight against climate change.
the co2 emissions from passenger cars are to be reduced by 15% by 2025 and by 37,5% by 2030. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
climate action is important, there's no doubt about it.
the unilateral focus on electric mobility would have merely shifted emissions from the tailpipe to the power plants.
all of this is a societal task, and as a societal task we must understand climate protection.
this will reduce the co2 emissions in the power plant area.
climate protection and safety at work must go hand in hand.
and that is why it would not have been wise not to use this margin of manoeuvre, especially when many people, especially many young people, expect the european union to do more to protect the climate.
we are talking today about schizophrenia, which is expressed in the immense new co2 emissions requirements that this house has wanted.
we're talking about the eu assuming zero emissions for electric cars, which is scientifically wrong and physically completely impossible.
the electricity used there is produced in doubt - in germany at least - in coal-fired power stations, in power stations that run on oil, where the emissions occur.
there is scientific research that shows very clearly that an electric vehicle, compared to a combustion engine, when it gets on the road, has already created the same environmental impact as the other one at 110,000 kilometers.
it is well known that only a few large ships produce the same environmental pollution as all german passenger transport.
we need energy-efficient cars, because that is the only way to achieve the eu's climate targets.
first, we say diesel is bad - diesel is a good alternative for reducing co2 - then we do not give incentives for renewable fuels, and we do not give incentives for plug-in hybrids.
we have managed to get 45 percent of the total budget, instead of 25 percent, to be spent on climate, environmental protection, biodiversity and desertification.
and we want to focus on a strategy of sustainable root cause management.
but these investments have nowhere near the same sustainable and forward-looking objectives as ours.
this instrument helps our partners to strengthen their democratic institutions, improve their judiciaries and public administrations, reform their economies and introduce high eu standards to protect consumers and the environment.
because it's not just about spreading our resources more widely, to consider other areas of work that we have not considered so far, such as climate protection, social, economy or jobs, but it's also about being able to do a little more or less together individually, depending on the efforts of the other side, and not in the super-teacher way: "if you don't do as i want, then there will be less", but vice versa: whoever makes a special effort, whoever picks up a little more speed, must also have a chance to be supported by us a little or better.
a resilient state needs a resilient society and a resilient society must feature democracy, trust in institutions and sustainable development.
(applause) additionally, leaders are determined to tackle climate change.
in the meantime, we have instructed ministers to step up work on the eu’s long—term climate strategy in order to implement the goals set down by the paris agreement.
the second thing we as epp believe in is a pragmatic approach on climate change.
there must be a shift towards a sustainable economy, an economy that protects the planet, safeguards its resources and offers all people a fair chance to participate.
i have to say, madam president, the european summit was rightly concerned not only with brexit, and it is also noticeable how much time and energy this debate takes away from other important issues on the agenda, namely climate protection and dealing with world power china.
the two go together: china is a partner in climate action, but china is also a competitor in climate technology.
do we have a strategy for climate technologies?
it is no longer sustainable, not only for those countries and regions which are no longer able to manage their infrastructure, but also for those who have to work on the streets every day, far from home and far from their families.
the plastic pollution of the world's oceans is a huge problem.
i agree with frédérique ries that new, further steps are needed in the next period: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the requirements of the environment.
but today it is a very, very important first step: we are strengthening the circular economy, we are doing something to prevent marine pollution, and i have rarely seen citizens so positively reacting to environmental legislation, and that is why we should adopt it immediately by a very large majority.
and it is also something visible in the environmental policy of the european union.
this is not populism, but it is a visible contribution that we are trying to eliminate the waste and pollution of the environment.
even though most of this plastic waste in the oceans comes from other continents, it is still right that we as europe, as the european union, set a good example.
so a good piece of environmental policy in the european union in this parliamentary term.
the efsa recommendations, which identify the application of phosphate fertilisers as the main cause of cadmium pollution of soils, can no longer be ignored.
it is a missed opportunity to do something about soil pollution and to improve consumer safety.
the commission proposal on access to water is also an important step towards achieving sustainable development goal 6. i warmly welcome the strong support from parliament to ensure access for all.
as you are aware, the environment council agreed on a general approach on 5 march.
it costs fuel, it causes other environmental problems.
it is therefore high time to ensure that the financial sector is committed to greater sustainability.
it is therefore imperative that the financial sector invests only in projects and businesses that do not cause any damage to the environment or to society.
please support the incorporation of eu indicators on social and environmental factors into existing financial rules!
this is an important step to ensure that sustainability is not just a lapidary phrase in the financial sector, but is taken more seriously in the future.
the financial markets must play a part in helping us achieve the climate targets.
and of course, we have to make sure that there's no greenwashing, so that you don't label something as sustainable that it's not.
many financial investors are very concerned about sustainability, and if we make it too complicated, it could have counterproductive effects, especially because a lot of small credit institutions have to deal with this legislation.
the taxonomy should have been the first dossier in the sustainable finance package.
but we have already adopted disclosure requirements and sustainable benchmarks.
otherwise, the transition to more sustainable finance will not succeed.
but it can't be our job to just label, but it has to be really sustainable financial products.
so i'm all for a clear taxonomy, a clear focus on sustainability, no sectors being left out and volunteering.
i believe that we must step up to defend our fundamental values in the european union, and the most strategic way to fight the forces that challenge those values is to deliver results in the areas of employment, security, migration, climate change, and thus to create hope for the future.
the agreements must respect our environment, our health and the rights of workers.
but one thing we must never forget in their message is the following: it is not up to their generation to solve the climate crisis, it is up to us: all generations, here and now.
we have a climate framework for our society which will lead our efforts to cut emissions quickly and powerfully and achieve net zero emissions by 2045. but it’s us together that must implement the paris agreement – without any ifs, without any buts, without maybes – in order to keep the global temperature rise below 1.5°, and as part of this work, the eu needs to adopt a goal of net zero emissions by 2050 at the very latest.
and in these times, when people say that the eu must prove its worth, there is no better task for our union than defending our democratic values and by delivering on jobs, security, migration and climate change, defending the dreams of our young people.
for instance, sweden was one of the first countries to pass a climate act with the explicit goal of being carbon neutral by 2045. it is also well ahead of the rest when it comes to embracing a new digital world.
for many, it is the secret of a balanced, sustainable and happy life.
when it comes to the future of our union, there is no more important priority than the fight against climate change.
by 2050, climate change could force more than 10% of the global population to flee their homes.
for example, the commission has already proposed to devote a quarter of the eu’s budget to climate—related action as of 2021. but public finance alone will not be enough to meet our ambitious climate and energy targets by 2030. the financial sector needs to play its part in the fight against climate change.
this is why we put forward an action plan on sustainable finance to incentivise private capital to flow towards green projects.
but fighting climate change takes more than targets, and it will not stop in 2030. we must look further ahead.
this is why the commission has set a long-term strategy to be climate neutral by 2050. according to our estimates, this would lead to clean technology solutions, boost our gdp by up to two percent, and take off as much as eur 3 trillion from our energy import bill while ensuring a just and socially-balanced transition for all.
a new digital europe programme, worth eur 9 billion, will support europe’s digital transformation and create new opportunities for swedish tech companies like spotify or klarna to flourish, and, as i mentioned, we will ensure that 25% of the budget will support our climate and sustainable development targets.
that puts you in the front row when it comes to the answers today to the challenges to europe and the challenges to the world – sustainability and also fairness, equality, especially with respect to gender, and acceptance – not only acceptance, but the idea – of the necessity of putting women on an equal footing and granting them full rights in civic life as well as in the labour market.
and it was the swedish government which, a year later, added sustainability as a crucial element in this discussion.
we cannot, of course, talk about social justice without talking about climate justice and environmental justice, because it’s always the poorest people who are hit the hardest by the climate crisis, no matter whether it’s inside the european union locally, or globally.
it’s the poor people who live in big cities that will face more and more heat, and this heat will also worsen the air pollution situation.
again, poorer people will be hit by this, while they actually contribute less to co2 emissions than rich people do.
so climate justice needs to go hand in hand with social justice.
we need to make sure that mobility is climate-friendly, available, affordable and existent.
another important issue, of course, is the emissions trading system (ets) for climate action, and there it’s very good that the swedish government, actually on the initiative of the deputy prime minister, isabella lövin, has proposed in council to cancel about three billion carbon emission allowances.
that’s about 50 times sweden’s yearly emissions.
that has been adopted in council, which is very good, because it finally contributed to the reform of the ets and at least tried to bring the prices for co2 emissions to a more reasonable level in order to really make polluters pay.
talking about jobs, europe could indeed be the frontrunner in climate-friendly jobs, but right now we’re leaving the innovation to other regions and countries in the world.
the climate crisis is real and it’s happening this is the one planet that we have, and there are also no jobs on a dead planet.
i would like to make one more point: you also stressed that the young people who are demonstrating for more action on climate change and environmental protection are not the ones who have to find the solution and make the policy now, but that it is we who have to do it - we in parliament, we in the governments of the member states.
and since you, as prime minister, have announced that you will be the first carbon-free, fossil-free welfare state in the european union and that you will also ban the combustion engine, i ask you to explain - also in the council and to us here - how the transformation can succeed, for more climate protection.
when it comes, mr brannen, to co2 emissions and wood, we have another argument, and that is that wooden constructions and wooden buildings are not more dangerous in terms of fire.
we need to build more using wood rather than other materials for exactly the reason that that was mentioned: the climate.
there was also another question on the same issue – what more can we do for the climate – from mr kofod.
so i think what it’s all about is creating the ‘people’s movement’ for combating climate change and making sure that we do our best for climate.
i talked about the climate so we agree on that.
i also share his call for a stronger fight against climate change and for better environmental protection.
with the amended gas directive, we will be in a position to ensure that european union energy legislation will apply to all pipelines connecting the european union market with third countries.
this is important for european energy security, for european sovereignty and for european solidarity.
in practical terms, it means that the key principles of european union energy legislation, such as third-party access, tariff regulation, ownership unbundling and transparency will apply to gas pipelines with third countries.
together with the previously agreed rules on security of gas supply and intergovernmental agreements in the energy field, the union has given itself a strong set of tools to deal effectively and collectively with our external energy suppliers.
this has always been one of the main objectives of the energy union.
but if we replace coal and nuclear and use renewable energy, then we will need more gas.
only days after the agreement, the russian energy minister declared that from the hour that gas flows through the nord stream pipeline, transit through ukraine will be stopped.
i would like to say that i urge the european union to review its dependence on russia in the energy sector.
because it would be damaging to our security in the long run if we were to strengthen a more aggressive russia by increasing energy imports and actually boosting investment in the military complex in russia with our money.
first, i quoted the russian minister of energy.
but we cannot do the necessary data collection and environmental measures that they have to wait for support.
we must ensure that there are protected areas, that environmental aspects are also taken into account.
climate change is an obvious example.
firstly, we should engage more strongly with china to promote an effective rules-based multilateral order to fight climate change and to improve the governance of the oceans.
we also both agree on the negative impact that emissions, pollution and unsustainable use of resources has on our planet, both on land and in the oceans.
secondly, we want to deepen our action in support of international peace, security and sustainable development.
we also want to cooperate with china and promote high governance standards, sustainability and a level playing field in respect to investment and economic cooperation with third countries in asia, the western balkans or africa, in particular in the fields of infrastructure.
in order to promote high standards of quality, security, sustainability and social responsibility, the commission will also publish guidance on the participation of foreign bidders in the eu’s procurement market and conduct an overview of the eu’s procurement framework.
so it should be a given that we invest a corresponding amount of time and energy in our relationships.
the forthcoming summit is a chance to discuss with china how we are moving forward to strengthen the global economy, develop new structures, standards and rules-based multilateral trade, prevent climate change, manage technological leaps and their consequences and achieve the un sustainable development goals.
but we also have to see that china has, of course, undergone a transformation: millions of people have been lifted out of poverty, china is a member of the paris climate agreement, and china's per capita carbon footprint is still about one tenth of what it is here.
and secondly, bilaterally: yes, we must put in more energy to get the investment agreement through and also the agreement on geographical indications.
according to our data, across the eu, people retiring between now and 2057 will need to save an additional two trillion euro each year to achieve a sustainable income in retirement.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
you enriched the package with additional elements that were absent in the initial proposal, for example in the areas of sustainable finance and anti-money laundering.
the package will introduce for the first time the considerations of environmental, social and governance risks in bank prudential regulation, for example through the obligation for large listed banks to disclose the environmental and social risks they are exposed to.
so let us have the courage to think long term and the patience to take sustainable growth measures.
the european parliament, with its christian democrat, social democrat, liberal and green majority, has put forward strong proposals on how we can move forward, particularly with regard to consumer protection, money laundering and sustainable financial markets.
we need in this house the ability to move forward with the big tasks of the future, with the questions we are asking ourselves - from migration to trade wars, the issues of internal and external security, the issues that have to do with climate change and many others.
i see our colleagues on the environment committee have finally let go of the presidency.
mr tannock, you will then have the floor for the committee on the environment.
these measures would help create the right environment for meaningful political negotiations, so that all parties – including a transitional military council, the sudanese professionals association and other political actors – can cooperate in good faith.
we are discussing climate protection these days.
this is the largest climate change programme in the world: 35% of european research will be on climate change.
the european enlightenment, the european social model, a responsibility for freedom, for the security of people, for democracy, but also for new challenges such as climate change, are expressions of this programme.
when we talk about climate change these days, we look at ourselves and say, are we doing enough?
but we should also be proud to say that this research programme exists, and it guarantees that there is climate research.
in america, 3,000 officials in the department of the environment have been fired, funding has been cut.
china is not over-ambitious on climate change.
i was at the world's largest construction machinery fair in munich on sunday and experienced what is possible only in the field of construction machinery in terms of research and innovation, to work in an environmentally friendly, climate-friendly way, to produce innovative, smart solutions.
i would like to emphasize two points briefly: we have heard a lot about climate change, and i can emphasize that.
if we are talking about climate change, we must talk about europe.
the chinese and indians will not follow us if we have no more emissions, but no more industrial production.
that is why i have been working with christian ehler and others for some time on how we can build, for example, the first carbon-free steel plant in europe.
if you see that in the united states the government decrees that research on climate change is not allowed, if you see that in china and other parts of the world the freedom of research is not given to that extent, then we should use the programme - also as a task for the future - to remind ourselves that the fight for scientific freedom is one of the most important tasks for the european union.
a vote in favour of this regulation will therefore send a strong and clear message to smes and european citizens that the european union is capable of ensuring greater transparency and predictability in the online platform environment.
these are big steps forward, and it's a big step that citizens' interests, environmental interests, are put before corporate interests.
this debate has very often been based on a discussion of indexation of child benefit - a debate of envy which does absolutely nothing to bring about social balance in britain, but only poisons the social climate and divides society.
i say there are four: jobs, the way of life translated into immigration the environment; and safety and security.
the third concern: environment.
climate change i wont go into it deeply is real.
so the legislation, the direction, is absolutely correct: reduce co2 emissions, increase renewables, increase energy efficiency.
but we have a difficulty, which is that not all member states have the same kind of energy mix.
regardless of how fast we want to move, there's one structural change that we need to make to make that change faster, and that is again i'm a single market kind of person opening up the market in energy to competition.
have a smart transition to clean energy, bringing in more market forces to play, and focus on our common security, not only through the military, but also through the security of the information world that we live in.
take energy you mentioned this very important dimension of european policy.
your history and your geography meant that latvia and the baltics were an isolated energy island cut off from the rest of europe.
this is why, when we took office, we created an energy union and made it a top priority to provide latvia and its baltic neighbors with stable, secure and cheaper energy they need.
today, we are well on the way to synchronising the baltic electricity grid with the rest of europe by 2025. we are investing in infrastructure, and we now have the world's most ambitious and advanced climate and energy framework.
i am delighted that we have turned the energy union vision into reality and i thank you, i am grateful to the prime minister for his leadership and work as a member of this parliament, and as a prime minister today.
the following is a list of the most important decisions taken by the european parliament in the field of the environment: 50 000 latvian jobseekers and almost 9 000 employees have been able to start their career on the labour market since 2014 thanks to the european means for new qualifications.
we will ensure that every fourth euro of the budget supports our climate and sustainable development goals, and the funds for the erasmus+ programme will be doubled to 30 billion euros.
in the last five years what we managed, what we have brought to the people of europe, the success stories on management of the external border, the millions of new jobs created with the juncker plan, the sustainable growth and the front-runner to be at the front on the question of the fight against climate change on a global level.
and then climate change.
because only in this way can we address the challenges at our borders in a sustainable way and in keeping with our common values.
tomorrow we will vote on the first regulation to reduce co2 emissions from trucks.
this report is therefore an important step forward in environmental protection, but it is far from sufficient.
every sector must contribute to climate protection.
but i think even those who criticized him back then have to admit today: we have achieved a great deal with him for climate protection in europe.
the railways are much more heavily burdened by emissions trading than other less environmentally friendly modes of transport.
i have deliberately not responded to your nonsense, but if you ask me, i will gladly respond: europe will achieve its 2030 climate goals.
we have passed legislation - tomorrow is the last part of it - where we have already legislated the framework conditions that we will exceed our climate target of 40%.
at the same time, we have rules to ensure that energy-intensive industries are not driven out of europe.
environmental protection is being made european.
the best way to reduce pollutants is at european level, with binding guidelines for national governments on the expansion of renewable energy, on co2 reduction and on energy saving.
and we also work across borders with concrete legislation on emissions trading, eco-design, energy labelling and many others.
if energy costs are kept under control, if security of supply is guaranteed, then we are in favour of european standards.
without rules, it was possible to give in to the short-term profit motive and choose the country with the lowest wages, workers' rights, taxes and environmental standards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
but we have not only made improvements in the environment of european seaports with this regulation.
i believe that we have recently made a significant contribution to environmental protection in ports with the directive on the discharge of waste.
starting with your report, with the port package, where i was also allowed to work - it was a nice cooperation - then just recently my ship waste disposal came, which we decided, and now, deirdre, your report from today.
i would like to begin by thanking my socialist colleague, mr paul tang, for his really good work as rapporteur and for his tireless efforts to promote sustainable finance.
today we are taking an important step, which is that all financial market players will have to disclose sustainability information transparently at product and company level.
it has just been mentioned that greta thunberg was here in the european parliament, in the environment committee, the day before yesterday, and she made it clear that we must finally act if we want to avoid an environmental, a climate disaster.
the conservatives say, "sustainability yes, but please don't oppose the industry and the financial industry".
when it comes down to it, it's clear that it's often about greenwashing and that's supported, and sustainability is not pursued as a real political goal - not environmental sustainability, not social sustainability.
it has to go on for a sustainable economy.
and secondly, to choose in the european elections those who are for social, environmental and economic sustainability.
it is burning with a deteriorating climate, collapsing biodiversity and depleting natural resources.
i also note that you personally say that you are in favour of halving our co2 emissions by 2030, that you are taking up the idea of a border carbon tax or a european unemployment insurance scheme, all of which are taboo ideas in the political family from which you come; i commend your courage in this regard.
why, for example, raise our climate targets in two steps in the face of urgency, rather than immediately?
you rightly stress that the ecological transition must not leave anyone on the sidelines.
but you cannot ignore that if the price of carbon rises, everyone - and especially the most vulnerable - will be affected.
the environment is not just the climate either.
not a word from you about biodiversity or the depletion of resources like arable land or fresh water.
you are in favour of including in these treaties, as they already do, clauses on sustainable development, but you cautiously refrain from committing yourself to making these clauses binding and punishable.
in short, where a change of course is necessary in view of the triple urgency of social, environmental and democratic matters, you propose a change of course here, incremental changes there and, above all, a great deal of vagueness.
if you were to be elected tonight, rest assured that we will be ready to be convinced and to give our support whenever your proposals are commensurate with the social, environmental and democratic emergency, in other words, commensurate with the existential challenges we are facing.
we ask you to clarify this in your reply, but from diametrically opposite positions, because if the method is the one that timmermans has been using for the last five years, then we are certainly in a totally alternative and contradictory position and therefore we are not clear on the mechanism of the rule of law, just as it is important to talk about climate change.
because it is clear that there are positive aspects to the issue of climate change, which you have indicated, such as the just transition fund to help communities mitigate the effects of climate policy, a sustainable investment bank to mobilise private capital, but again there is a debate about targets.
the austerity policy has not led to, for example, the restructuring of the national budgets, but on the contrary, it has led exclusively to the fact that, for example, public investment could no longer be made, that no more investment was made in education, that no more investment was made in health care, and also that no funds were available to fight decisively against climate change.
mrs von der leyen, if you want to combat the climate emergency, you must act now, if you want to tackle economic structural change, you must invest now, and if you want to guarantee social security in the european union, you must break with this false austerity policy now.
but whether you are talking about a european army or an army of europeans, that is a waste of words for me.
but i think that our plan - and this has become clear - for the future of the european union, a social european union, a climate-friendly european union and a peaceful european union, is not very compatible with your vision.
and when it comes to the issue of the sustainable development goals, which are our guiding principle, the sustainable development goals are in the interest of all of us.
we have all come to understand that the clock is ticking, that time is limited, that our planet needs help, that our creation is the foundation on which we build all our life, that it must be viewed in a climate-friendly and sustainable way.
and so it is in all our interests to be able to implement the sustainable development goals with all our strength and intensity.
everything was there: minimum wage, gender equality, climate bank, sustainable europe, of course empowerment of children, metoo, empowering small and medium-sized businesses, fair taxes.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a carbon tax in the eu.
do we really want an eu-wide consultation tax on how best to implement german climate and asylum policy across the eu?
this could be a conference at which all regional actors sit at the table and work on a sustainable solution.
the eu should also unlock the financial aid that has been withheld and we must do everything we can to help moldova to exploit its agricultural potential in a targeted way and in a way that respects the environment.
the media and the eu institutions are not only concerned with the environment and energy, but also with panic and not with competence.
a little less limit here, a new climate tax there.
instead of informing citizens, political propaganda is being made with climate and air pollution horror scenarios, which unfortunately capture many.
the may 2008 directive on air quality and clean air created the prerequisite for environmental zones with driving bans.
in germany alone there are currently 58 such environmental zones.
for the last 20 years, particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide pollution have been steadily decreasing.
the latest data from the german federal environment agency show that in 2018, the annual average value for fine dust of 40 micrograms per cubic meter was not exceeded at any of the 536 measuring points in germany.
for example, in the erfurt environmental zone, the limit value for fine dust has not been exceeded since 2012. must the end of mankind now be postponed?
i am very much looking forward to seeing how many of our esteemed colleagues and concerned environmentalists will not be taking the rowboat to the un climate conference in chile in december.
i come from stuttgart, a beautiful city in the heart of europe, but we struggle with air pollution.
stuttgart has the highest pollution of nox in germany.
our local communities need support for their sustainable urban mobility plans.
in europe, you have the right to a healthy environment and we need to deliver on that promise.
we must, of course, develop forestry in europe, make our forestry more natural, more resilient, more adaptable to climate change.
we also need to keep in mind that we need to produce this incredibly valuable ecological resource, wood, in a sustainable way.
but it will not be possible to compensate for all the ecological atrocities committed by our growth-driven industrial society in and through the forest alone.
we will not be able to meet the insatiable energy demand through the energy forest - so the criticism of biomass.
we're not going to be able to look at the forest as a one-sided carbon sink.
and we cannot reverse all the loss of biodiversity by a new forest policy.
it is precisely the eu which, with its energy transition, which is free from both sense and fact, is contributing to the sustainable destruction of forests - the only sustainability of the energy transition in relation to forests.
the biggest pest here is not the bark beetle, but the energy transition: for example, 70 planned wind farms with about 500 wind turbines in the odenwald unesco nature park, the münsterwald, the reinhardswald with up to 800 years old trees.
the commission has already made a number of important and correct statements today, and it must be clear to all of us that the european forest cannot save the global climate.
because the forest is the loser of climate change.
so it's important that we understand the forest as the renewable resource, as the wonderful resource that it is, to protect, but also to use.
the sustainable management of our forests can enhance their resilience against extreme events, help confront the climate-change challenge and guarantee the conservation of biodiversity and the provisioning of key services to our society.
the future common agricultural policy, with a new balance of responsibilities between member states and the european union, will continue to support the sustainable management of the eu forests, based on a needs assessment and a long-term strategy, acknowledging their role in the transition towards a low-carbon and climate-friendly economy, in support of rural livelihoods and the bioeconomy, and in protecting biodiversity and providing ecosystem services.
in the light of the commitments made by president-elect ms von der leyen in terms of biodiversity and climate change, in the new green deal further action could be envisaged in the context of the announced post-2020 biodiversity framework, in order to improve the conservation status and the resilience of european union forests.
ladies and gentlemen, eu forests are our 'green' wealth and fulfil important environmental, social and economic functions.
they cover over 40% of the eu's territory, absorb around 10% of carbon emissions, provide jobs for over 3 million europeans and hold enormous potential for the development of the bioeconomy.
at the same time, forest ecosystems are facing increasing challenges related to climate change: extreme droughts, forest fires, floods, landslides, invasive species, pathogens, etc.
as a result of climate change, the number and intensity of forest fires across europe, including in bulgaria, have increased in recent decades.
addressing these challenges requires sustainable forest management, prevention activities and enhanced cooperation between member states.
we urgently need a long-term plan to preserve our forests so that our forests can be preserved as a climate protector, recreation area, habitat for flora and fauna and economic factor.
an important point is to strengthen forestry research in the fields of climate-resilient tree species and forest plant breeding, and to strengthen european cooperation in monitoring and control of pests and their spread.
at that time, the aim was to force consumers to use energy-saving lamps.
energy-saving bulbs actually save energy, but they do contain mercury, and mercury is not necessarily good for the environment.
while in december, the climate circus in chile meets again with about 25 000 participants - participants who often live off the supposed climate rescue and fly halfway around the world, flying millions of kilometres and emitting i don't know how many tons of bad, bad co2, the very co2 whose existence is then so hypocritically lamented in the media and so effectively used politically; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative.
so while climate change watchers are gathering in the most beautiful holiday destinations - marrakech, lima in peru, south africa, bali 2007 and so on - and discovering new horror scenarios on the looming horizon, they are making it increasingly impossible for citizens to fly, restricting cars as a means of free individual movement and, of course, banning the eating of bad meat - to name a few.
mr president, on 24 may, just before the election of this european parliament, millions of young people went on climate strike.
the international panel on climate change (ipcc) report and the scientists have told us that we are able to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
you will go to the un climate summit empty handed.
you will not come with new, more ambitious climate targets.
they say ‘climate action now!’ (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
it's now almost four years since the paris agreement, and it turns out that what we decided to do there, which is to keep global warming below two degrees -- and at 1.5 degrees if possible -- is becoming increasingly difficult to achieve because emissions have simply not gone down in those four years.
now, the climate action summit is coming up in new york next week, and i'm sorry, mr cañete, mr liese, but i don't think we're on the fast track with the european union and over-achieving our goals.
we signed that 1.5 degrees, and if we look at what we've committed to, it's not enough, according to what the science tells us, especially after the special report last year, which again showed how big our carbon budget actually is, which is what we can still emit.
so it is time - and i expect the new commission to do this - to look at all the areas: what is the impact on climate change?
what is the impact on our emissions?
it is not just energy policy that is involved, but of course transport policy is also involved, and of course trade policy is also involved!
because what we're doing there is counterproductive in some ways, and it's actually causing emissions to go up or deforestation to go up elsewhere.
only by making the eu climate neutral by 2040 will we stop the climate crisis.
we need a green new deal with massive investment in our climate and for social participation; if we do not, we will ensure that the already devastating costs of climate damage are passed on to future households and thus to younger generations.
member states are doing too little to meet the eu's climate targets.
we believe that a just and forward-looking policy is based on immediate, radical measures for environmentally and climate-friendly restructuring at all levels of our activities.
that's what we need, climate action now!
we need a significant increase in investment, not only to support the economy, but also to meet the challenge of climate change.
in the face of a looming downturn in europe, member states must create a better environment for growth, innovation and investment; the flooding of the money market by the ecb is the opposite.
we must therefore continue to use our economic power, but also our foreign policy tools, to defend human dignity, biodiversity and our planet.
– (inaudible) cross-party letter to commissioner malmström, signed by many people in this parliament, and it drew attention to bolsonaro’s ecocidal policies and said that we should not sign up to the trade agreement unless there were legally binding environmental and human rights standards.
at that point, members of the liberal group did not sign up to that letter, and so i would like to ask mr hook: is he ready now to pledge to vote against the eu—mercosur trade deal as long as it does not include legally binding provisions on environmental protection and human rights?
brazil's far-right president bolsonaro is blaming the devastating fires in the amazon for his policies against the paris climate agreement, human rights and indigenous peoples.
we must now take responsibility for our planet and for our climate.
the protests in the streets, for example the global climate strike this week, show that we as a parliament must take responsibility.
the consequences are disastrous: environmental crimes are punished only by fines.
if we are serious, we will not agree to an eu-mercosur treaty which does not contain binding, enforceable rules on the protection of forests, respect for human rights and the implementation of the paris climate agreement.
the forest must be at the centre of our efforts if we are to stop the climate catastrophe and the mass extinction of species.
in 2020, the eu can demonstrate its leadership in negotiating an international species protection agreement at un level and in the further implementation of the paris climate agreement.
when we consider that the forest is being burned and cleared on a large scale not only in south america but also in russia, canada and the congo, and that even many forest areas in the eu are in a worrying state, then we must naturally ask ourselves as the eu: what can we do to preserve these vital, indispensable carbon stores?
and secondly, we should make environmental and climate protection a key part of our development cooperation and eu diplomacy.
and to be honest, i miss the environmental and climate protection theme in the mission statements of josep borrell and jutta urpilainen.
climate action must be international in nature, and so a green new deal cannot be done only within the eu, but we must promote it globally and, in the case of forest protection, provide funds for certification, alternative sources of income and afforestation in development cooperation.
forest fires, hurricanes and floods the climate crisis is destroying our livelihoods.
it is destroying the livelihoods of many young people who, we feel, are right to take to the streets on friday and strike for the climate.
we greens want to stop the climate crisis and fight poverty, and we want to give all people in the european union a perspective.
we greens believe that we need a real green new deal, with investment in climate change and youth unemployment.
while merkel, macron and others in the european election campaign were still loudly calling for more investment, more joint european investment, they are now doing the opposite: they are proposing cuts in climate protection, in youth unemployment, but also in research.
so we greens are asking for another $3.5 billion in a first step to invest in climate.
madam president, i support my group’s initiative to honour the barroso commission’s promise of committing at least 20% of the budget to climate within the old multiannual financial framework (mff).
we need a budget that increases, rather than decreases, the eu’s capacity to act when it comes to climate change, migration, asylum and youth unemployment.
yes, their security concerns and their energy concerns are all rooted in their tragic past, and we have to start hearing them in order to build a common, a truly common, european foreign policy.
it is crucial for the eu to move ahead in key areas, particularly in terms of its future budget and on climate change, one of our most urgent threats.
climate change and the new multiannual financial framework we are talking about today are closely linked.
we cannot meet our climate change goals without investing in social protection.
the campaign is being launched with slogans such as climate neutrality, zero-emission cars, a zero-pollution strategy and biodiversity to save the climate.
but it's all based on the still very controversial scientific hypothesis of co2 as the sole driver of climate change, and so an unproven assumption triggers an endless chain of policy mistakes.
so now, to implement this at least questionable policy, the european investment bank is to be transformed into a climate bank to finance climate rescue.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the climate crisis, social fragmentation or even digitalisation: all the big issues of the future can no longer be solved at national level.
we want an eu that is ready to give all its citizens a future and that is climate neutral in 20 years' time.
because cutting the eu budget is destroying our climate.
the biggest part of the eu budget is still spent on climate-damaging agricultural subsidies - we have to change that!
instead of mass livestock farming and mass production, we want to promote environmental protection and species-appropriate animal husbandry.
we want to invest in renewable energy, in public transport and in better european rail links.
social and environmental investment go together for us, and for us greens it is one of the biggest scandals in the european union that over 120 million people on our continent are forced to live in poverty.
the major european issues for me are above all the promotion and management of digitalisation, support for research, more erasmus, the fight against climate change and, above all, the fight against terrorism and the protection of our external borders.
what we are seeing here is at least the result of a - and we just saw it here - witch hunt, a mood-setting campaign under the guise of a new golden calf in the form of climate protection, which has found its first victim in the tourism industry.
we must prevent, at least from the legislative side, further obstacles to our tour operators, such as the european green deal, and we must recognise that the death of european tour operators is not helping the global climate, but that it is competing companies that will enter these niches.
for years the forces of the right have been working together - also in this parliament - to create a climate against minorities, and this is the breeding ground for hatred, which leads to a social climate in which right-wing violent people no longer have to be afraid.
all products available for purchase in the eu must be free from pollution and deforestation from the outset.
it's 2019, and we have a few years left to reach the sustainable development goals.
we need legislation now that makes human rights and environmental standards mandatory along the entire supply chain.
but while your social fiber is undeniable, your environmental consciousness seems to me to be largely unbuilt.
it is burning with a climate that is going haywire, with a biodiversity that is collapsing and with resources that are running out.
at the heart of this conflagration is a globalisation which is being driven by free trade agreements in their current form, which privilege capital holders, often improperly called investors, and reduce social, environmental and democratic tax standards to the level of decorative accessories, which are of course not binding.
you have also advocated a common agricultural policy which is essentially productivist, contrary to any climate or biodiversity ambitions.
there are a lot of good things that you should be commended for, and the work of your team, too, should be appreciated, like making efforts to strengthen the single market, increasing the security of our energy supplies, leveraging investment into our economies, and good plans to strengthen small and medium farms, and a couple more points.
a plan that, instead of focusing on renewable energy and energy efficiency, still finances fossil fuels today.
just look at the projects of common interest in the energy sector: of the 195 projects approved in 2017, 77 were gas-related and 7 were oil-related.
is this really how we want to start an energy transition?
in a historic climate emergency, you have therefore dramatically delayed the action needed to counter climate change, and this will have to be explained to young people protesting in the streets across europe and to future generations.
these days, as you know, we are discussing a new investment plan, this time sustainable, we hope, proposed by president von der leyen: a trillion euros to deal with the climate emergency.
in my area, employment and social affairs and equal opportunities policy, there is still a long way to go before we can create a truly socially sustainable and secure europe for our citizens.
i am very confident that the new commission will continue with determination the work it has started and that over the next five years we will build a socially responsible and sustainable europe.
where the juncker commission shone was in its efforts to nail climate change at the top of the international agenda and in its strategy to push a progressive social agenda for the eu as a whole.
some may have forgotten, but the eu signed the paris agreement on climate change.
but the co2 emissions from transport are continuing to rise, and i can't see any real plan to stop this trend, at least not in the draft budget for 2020. we must ask ourselves: how can we find an alternative to diesel, petrol and kerosene?
we greens are also pleased that we have managed to agree among the members of parliament to allocate eur 2.1 billion more for climate and environmental investments, because this money is also urgently needed and it helps in very concrete ways, for example in the fight for clean air.
because just talking about climate change, just talking about doing something about youth unemployment, that's not enough anymore.
more money for the urgently needed protection of our climate, more money to combat youth unemployment, more money for research and science, but also more money for european values and thus also for the rescue of people fleeing war and persecution across the mediterranean.
and once again we have a budget whose largest item is agriculture and where we are debating as a parliament whether we should spend more on supporting illegal mediterranean smuggling and climate action, whose effectiveness is at best controversial, but in reality is not.
the issue of climate change is one that europe cannot solve alone.
because if we in europe stopped emitting even one gram of co2 tomorrow, it would not be relevant to global warming even under the hypothesis of man-made climate change.
the climate crisis is not a natural disaster, no, it is man-made, and it is the result of misguided policies.
but so far, the commission's climate change law has been nothing but empty announcements.
at the same time, 1.5 billion euros are being invested in climate-damaging gas projects, and in germany, unfortunately, the climate protection package is only one: a pile of rubbish.
that's not how we're going to achieve climate neutrality.
i have to say, madam president, when the climate-neurotics gathered here talk about a climate catastrophe all the time, it is always in terms of the co2 levels in our atmosphere, and again only in the last 150 years.
climate change is the rule, not the exception.
we do well to adapt to a changing climate.
the don quixote's fight against climate change is one they can only lose.
everyone is fully justified talking about the climate crisis.
but there are two boundaries which are much more drastically exceeded: this is biosphere integrity – biodiversity basically – and biogeochemical flows, which means putting nitrogen, soluble nitrogen and phosphorous into the environment.
the seriousness of the climate situation is beyond dispute, so the attention, if you will, in this kind of parliamentary session, is now low.
sustainable development has an ecological component, as well as a competitive and social dimension.
if we focus on the ecological factor alone, we will soon face a social and economic emergency that is as unacceptable as the climate emergency.
so to solve the climate problem, we need a fair and competitive transition.
and on the path to climate neutrality, it is worth taking into account the good practices of member states.
one example is hungary, which has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions and lowered energy prices for its citizens over the past decade, while maintaining a growing economy.
i have to say, madam president, what other word can we use than to describe the state of our climate and environment as an emergency?
because temperatures are rising, more and more species are disappearing from our planet, more and more people are being forced to leave their homes because of climate change.
if we are serious about this, then the reform of the common agricultural policy must ensure that our subsidies protect the environment and help farmers to do so.
if we are serious about this, our trade agreements must contain binding, enforceable environmental and social standards.
if we are serious about this, then we are investing in a sustainable future with the green deal, in a just and social-ecological change.
so declaring a climate emergency can only be a start.
madam president, if the global temperature of the earth’s surface increases as is predicted, this has terrible consequences, and one place where the effects of global warming and climate change can be visibly seen is the arctic.
the arctic is warming at almost twice the global average rate of temperature increase and the melting of the arctic ice in turn contributes to climate change.
as regards the arctic, the responsibility of climate action cannot be in the hands of the arctic countries alone.
pollution that appears in the arctic climate is mostly from asian, north american and european emitters, and as it happens the melting of the arctic sea ice has opened a race for the region.
developments concerning security, energy and the environment affect the security situation in europe and beyond.
also, we must be prepared for the changes resulting in the climate change in the arctic to avoid the rise of tensions.
so the ecological change is also a profound cultural change.
even in this cultural change, we as the eu must make progress to protect our climate and biodiversity.
we in the large cities know that in future we will have to examine all measures to see whether they contribute to cleaner air, cleaner water and cleaner soil, to greater energy efficiency and, overall, to a healthy environment.
in cities - be it berlin, london or paris, or in the twin cities of berlin, jakarta, mexico city or beijing - environmental problems are accumulating due to the density of population, traffic and commerce.
but cities also have a higher density of know-how and innovation for science-based and technology-open solutions to environmental problems.
i therefore call on the commission to recognise in particular the starting point and potential of cities and to respond accordingly in terms of horizontal support and regulation, so that we can jointly accelerate the climate- and human-friendly transformation of our cities worldwide.
however, we need to make sure that our budget is sustainable.
we need to take steps to reduce the amount of the backlogs and help faster absorption, especially for the member states lagging behind, in order to secure an eu budget which is sustainable, not just in the short term but also in the medium and long term.
i saw a farmer, when he showed me the requirements that go into the administration of a greenhouse, it's a set of documents that a normal farmer has to fill out.
mrs von cramon-taubadel and mrs wolters addressed the issues of sustainability.
you will have seen this already - and you will see it even more so when we adopt our new strategy, which will apply to the court from 2021 onwards: we will also be taking a keen interest in the problem of the sustainable development goals, the un's sdgs.
you'll hear more from us here about sustainability.
in line with the invitation from the european council in the new strategic agenda, we need a sustainable solution based on solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility.
we believe this could help us rebuild a climate of trust in the spirit of cooperation between member states and, at the same time, feed into the new commission’s programme.
as regards the fourth operation, sophia, member states agreed to its continuation only on the condition that the development of its naval assets be temporarily suspended, a solution which is far from optimal and not sustainable.
we must reduce these tensions, because the consequences of armed conflict may be unpredictable, both for people and for the environment.
i believe that early sexualization is the worst outgrowth of the ecological fascism that is spreading in europe.
it is not a question of pursuing a clientelist policy, but of understanding the game of the heron as an element of active environmental protection.
the resolution on cop 25 is a document of embarrassing intellectual embarrassment to me, not only because of the ridiculous claim in paragraph 33 that the global action of the next 10 years will affect the future of humanity for the next 10,000 years: saving the climate.
a climate that has been changing undeniably for millions of years, sometimes drastically, without any human intervention.
this is now to be frozen at the level of anno domini 2015. environmental protection is also a synonym for climate protection.
catastrophic environmental damage from rare earth mining: whatever.
lead and cadmium in solar panels, child labour in the congo, health consequences of infrasound, disastrous land use, soil sealing, low-species energy crops, monocultures, sulphur hexafluoride in wind turbines a 24 000 times more potent greenhouse gas than co2 : it doesn't matter.
the world's forests are making a major contribution to climate change by absorbing greenhouse gas emissions.
the epp group therefore puts the protection of our forests at the heart of climate action.
another area of focus for us is the compatibility of climate action and the protection of jobs.
if we want to convince our international partners, we have to show them that climate action is possible without destroying jobs.
in the eu, we have managed to reduce co2 emissions by 23%, while gross national product has increased by 23% in the same period.
luxembourg has set a good example and announced that it will double its contributions to the united nations green climate fund.
wildfires and floods are increasing; venice is underwater; biodiversity is collapsing; resources are becoming scarce.
it is our duty to declare an ecological and climate emergency.
so i say very simply that the ball is in your court: either we let governments do nothing or we make sure that this parliament raises europe up to become the climate leader and takes action.
i say to you: let us be proud to vote together on thursday on the resolution on the ecological and climate emergency.
(speaker refuses a question from robert rowland)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the policies that europe has already put in place to reduce greenhouse gases and protect the environment outline very ambitious commitments towards the eu's climate neutrality.
but these commitments raise serious questions for our companies about their ability to remain competitive on a world scale, despite the new costs generated by environmental targets to be met in a short time, and for the member states about their ability to fully meet energy demand, their energy independence and at what cost.
think of the economic costs of over 200 million euros a year and the periodic movement of thousands of people, vehicles and materials and the associated emissions.
it's not climate neutrality!
the next world climate conference will coincide with the start of the new commission's work.
this means that we have a particularly good opportunity to take stock and to make concrete our politically stated objective of doubling climate-related action in development cooperation.
we need better access to renewable energy and support for investment in climate technologies and knowledge sharing.
we need to build sustainable supply chains and further develop the circular economy.
we need international partnerships on sustainable forest, land, water and resource use, for example through certification schemes, and we need to invest in disaster prevention and early warning systems.
and last but not least, with the increasing global rural exodus, it's becoming increasingly important that we rebuild our cities to be more efficient and climate-friendly, or to build new settlements or new cities in a completely different way.
we in the house are embarking on the 26th conference on climate change with this resolution.
i have to say, madam president, the climate emergency is not an abstraction, but a brutal reality here in europe, as people in venice have been able to see in recent weeks.
the environment committee is now presenting a resolution to this house for cop 25, which is a clear commitment to constructive leadership.
on the other hand, it is also an appeal to the eu institutions and member states for more ambition in european climate policy, above all for the strengthening of the social dimension.
the eu is to raise its emissions reduction target to 55% by 2030 and become climate neutral by 2050 at the latest - all as part of a just transition: a fund for socially just structural change or the fight against energy poverty.
as s&ds, we stand for a climate policy that not only takes care of those who fear the end of the world, but also those who fear the end of the month.
i am particularly pleased that the environment committee has voted to phase out nuclear energy.
let us not leave future generations with nuclear waste.
the energy of the future must be safe, renewable, emission- and radiation-free.
climate change is probably the biggest challenge of our time - for me as a politician, but also for me personally, because i want to do right by my two children for the future.
it is a challenge to do justice to climate protection on the one hand, but also to keep an eye on jobs in europe on the other.
the european carbon trading is important in this respect.
the good news is that renewable energy has become so cheap that we as a european union would be foolish to continue to rely on fossil fuels.
and i'm not even talking about the environmental costs, i'm just talking about the operating costs.
because citizens need a union that can act, they need an eu that really protects them and also empowers them in the face of the challenges we face - climate change, digitalisation and migration, but also growing inequality in many countries.
madam president, i take it from ms in 't veld that the young generation voted in the european elections and they voted for climate action.
they want us to act, they want the commission to act and they want the council to act on climate.
if parliament now does act, they will hopefully declare a climate emergency.
therefore, i hope that the council will decide to become climate neutral, that the commission will agree to increase the 2030 targets to least 65% and that this parliament will not only declare a climate emergency but also act on it.
i did not vote for the resolution because i find it shameful that this important issue of 'children's rights' is being exploited to further fuel climate hysteria.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not 500 million more for climate investments, at least 80 million more for youth programmes and more money for democracy and human rights work.
i would like to begin by thanking my colleague and shadow rapporteur, mrs clotilde armand, and my colleague and shadow rapporteur, mr pierre larrouturou, for their many joint initiatives on climate and youth, but above all, of course, the negotiators, our committee chairman and the two rapporteurs, mrs eider gardiazabal rubial and mrs monika hohlmeier.
we need to do much more to achieve the climate goals.
we need to invest massively to get our economy climate neutral in the next few decades and to get all of our people on board.
we need to invest more in renewable energy, we need to invest more in good food, in clean air and water for all the people on our continent.
copenhagen, the hague, vienna and maybe parts of berlin are at risk of missing our targets, of not meeting the paris climate targets, of not being able to increase research spending.
it is being converted into another budget heading for climate protection, i.e.
this is how the allocation of ever-increasing sums to the senseless and uncertain energy supply we already have in germany is concealed.
we have achieved a common success as a parliament in these budgetary negotiations: more money and more investment for research, climate and erasmus.
we need more top researchers in europe, we need more erasmus exchanges and new technologies to combat climate change.
well the last weeks have proven that once again one of the solutions is tackling climate change.
what we do not need now is this religious-like belief that future technology will save us, is this bullshitting around of denying climate change or this useless discussion about what to do.
we know what to do: stop coal until 2030; implement an ets that covers all sectors with a limited amount of certificates; introduce additional carbon taxes on transport and travel; establish a border adjustment and use all the revenues for climate research adaptation and mitigation.
for centuries, cities such as venice, rotterdam, and london have worked not to control the uncontrollable climate but to combat its effects.
wto rules must support the objectives of climate change and sustainable development.
at the moment, they mostly limit the policy space that governments need for their social and environmental policies.
the climate crisis and sustainable development must be at the heart of the eu's efforts to reform global trade rules.
the focus has been on climate policy, on whether it will be three degrees warmer in 100 years - another issue that, according to all the polls, does not really concern people and voters, but rather migration, the security of their jobs and the future of their home.
but this propaganda is also happening in german, and not just in the form of russia today; redfish on facebook is a radical left group that actually advocates for interesting and good and important climate policy issues, but at the same time it instills agitatory propaganda and is owned by russian news agencies.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: they said the two-state solution was the best, the most sustainable and the most pragmatic solution.
instead, we must seek to align our priorities with those of our partners on poverty eradication, education and vocational training, the promotion of legal migration and the possibility of return to the country of origin followed by voluntary reintegration in order to reach a genuine agreement that is in line with the objectives of sustainable development.
we must not make development aid conditional on setting too high barriers in the areas of climate, migration and security.
we all agree that we have to protect and restore the world’s forests, as well as to protect environmental defenders who stand up so courageously to protect nature.
indeed, environmental defenders are indispensable allies in the promotion of environmental rights.
forest and environmental activists are an indispensable part of strengthening environmental rights.
i would like to see better cooperation with the authorities so that we can protect our forests and our environment.
the european green deal started with three promises: the first was to reduce emissions, the second to create jobs and the third to improve the quality of life.
reducing emissions is a noble cause.
but the eu alone will not stop climate change just 10% of global emissions are actually made in the eu.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the coal industry, including the introduction of a new energy tax.
so whether the green deal measures will ultimately benefit the world's climate is in the stars.
in addition to strong climate legislation, we need more public european investment to make our infrastructure climate neutral.
while von leyen is presenting her green deal plans in the european parliament, a few hundred meters away, the german federal government and other states are blocking higher investment in the eu and risking us missing the climate targets.
we expect von der leyen to align the financial framework with the green deal and germany to present its own proposals for more climate investments.
real ecological own resources such as a carbon tax or a plastic tax would be a start here.
the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
– mr president, we discussed this evening an issue that will, in the coming years, be crucial for our union and also for the sustainability of the single market and of our social model, so for this reason i think that the discussion was useful.
building on the two previous macrofinancial assistance programmes successfully implemented, the new financial assistance will help jordan to enhance the sustainability of its debt thanks to attractive terms of the loans, as well as to promote further structural reforms necessary to strengthen growth and the resilience of the economy.
the programme is a concrete expression of the eu’s sustained commitment to supporting jordan, which faces an adverse and complex economic situation in a region marked by a persistently challenging and volatile environment.
the two great sources of waste or corruption are the cohesion fund and, of course, agriculture.
i am particularly pleased that there are no lazy rules on this so-called emissions trading now.
because what is described in article 6 is not really emissions trading.
there is no cap as in a real emissions trading system , but the basis is the national climate plans.
the millions of people who have taken to the streets to demand climate action are disappointed, and they have seen that governments cannot be trusted.
the year 2019 is the year of the climate movement.
all over the world, people have risen up against the destruction of our planet, and we, here in this house, have declared a climate emergency.
this is the year the climate conference fails.
but many people who have already gone one step further: they are developing the technology of tomorrow's decarbonized world, they are taking to the streets on friday for the climate, and they are waiting for the heavy-handed policy.
next year, politics must follow suit, which means for you, mr timmermans, to say at the beginning of the year how much climate ambition you really want.
that means putting forward a real climate bill so that the next climate conference in glasgow a year from now will be a success.
in 2020, everything is about the climate.
mr timmermans, do not disappoint the people in this climate year 2020!
madam president, it is very clear that the sustainability of health systems in the european union, financial sustainability is an increasingly important challenge.
i have to say, madam president, agreeing on climate neutrality by 2050 eu reaches agreement when i read your tweet, mr. michel, on friday night, i was delighted.
if we stay at 25 percent of climate investment, we're going to see the green deal fail, and without significantly more for research and digitization, we're going to be out of touch globally as well.
climate-friendly agriculture, climate-neutral industry, energy-efficient buildings, fast and cheap rail links: all of these must be financed and we need to have room for all of these in the financial framework.
(the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, madam president of the commission, let me say how pleased i am to see that the commission is taking up the idea of energy interconnectivity, in particular by linking portugal and spain to the rest of europe, particularly at the border of the pyrenees, as a priority for the 'green deal'.
because this is not just an ecological issue, and it's not just an economic issue, it's also a geopolitical issue.
we can depend less on russia if we open the doors of european energy to the iberian peninsula, because it will have clean energy and it will also have energy that can be imported from other regions and that can reach europe, reducing our dependence on russia.
in substance, erdoğan's attack is against the european union, it is against international law, which is a community acquis, and it affects the highest strategic interests of the european union, which include plans for energy in the eastern mediterranean.
then, i think, we can achieve climate neutrality by 2050. it is technologically possible, but it must of course also make economic sense.
i therefore believe that climate policy and competition policy are two sides of the same coin, and i am pleased, madam president of the commission, that next year you will be presenting your industrial policy alongside the proposal for the climate law, which i think is a good sign and i am curious to hear what you have to say.
firstly, climate was the number one issue at this european summit last week.
second point: yes, this is an important act that was put forward last week by the european council, because the decision is unanimous on the objective of climate neutrality by 2050, and it is only for its implementation that one european country considered that more time was needed.
finally, and as a complementary point, which many have mentioned, i also believe that this strong position, supported by the european authorities - european green deal, climate neutrality by 2050 - gives the european authorities and institutions a clear mandate at international level, particularly in the context of next year's summits with china.
just a few months ago, at the sibiu summit - this was early 2019 - only 9 out of 27 european countries shared this 2050 climate neutrality goal.
europe has set itself the very ambitious goal of becoming a climate-neutral economy by 2050, which will require not only huge financial resources and structural reforms in a number of areas, but above all the political will of the member states to implement the very difficult but necessary decisions.
i agree that in climate change matters the eu will become a leader.
they proclaim a bold ambition in the environmental field.
the finnish presidency's proposal was incompatible with the ambition shown in other items on the council's agenda, namely the ambition to achieve an ecological pact leading to an accelerated process of decarbonisation, achieving carbon neutrality by 2050, in the framework of a just transition, leaving no territory behind, and of maintaining the effort in cohesion and proximity policies.
we have with us the brazilian representatives of the struggle for human rights, environmental protection and the conservation of the amazon rainforest: - monica benicio representing her late partner marielle franco, who was murdered in march 2018 - claudelice silva dos santos - patxon metuktire representing her grandfather capo raonie for the restorers, we have a group of young kenyan students who have decided to use technology for women's empowerment and to fight against female genital mutilation: - stacy owino- synthia otieno- purity ouma - macrine onyangoon behalf of the european parliament, i thank you for being with us today and we congratulate you on your courage and your strong commitment and of course we will continue to follow your activities.
the mass disappearance of pollinating insects, both domestic and wild, is a threat to the survival of our societies, our ecosystems and biodiversity in general.
we all agree that something needs to be done, because it's not just about biodiversity, but it's basically about farmers being able to keep working, because a declining pollinator population means a declining crop.
it is also an incredible opportunity, an opportunity for europe to have a shared project, a common horizon, to put our public policies at the service of technological, social and democratic innovation, at the service of the relocation of the economy, the creation of sustainable jobs in all our territories, more democracy.
it is also an opportunity for our fellow europeans to regain control of their lives, to regain control of their food, their transport, their housing, their energy, while our societies are so divided, so fractured today.
we have saved the banks, we can save the climate, we can save lives, especially if it creates jobs and revives the european economy.
so if the green pact is about saving the climate, saving life, revitalizing our economy, creating jobs, then the agreement with mercosur cannot be signed.
we cannot, in the name of european values, in the name of the climate, in the name of life, go towards this agreement.
this cannot be the europe of the green pact, because this europe is a europe that contributes to the globalisation of junk food, the globalisation of animal suffering, the globalisation of deforestation, the globalisation of climate change and the globalisation of the disappearance of farmers in the mercosur countries and in europe.
mrs von der leyen said this morning: 'we must listen to the european citizens, listen to them, they do not want mercosur, they want us to act with ambition and concrete actions on climate, biodiversity and democracy.'
there can be no doubt that we face immense climate and environmental challenges.
the eu needs to take the lead and work collectively to transform our economy and societies in order to put them on a more sustainable path.
concerns that the trade agreement with mercosur should be sustainable, also from the point of view of our green agenda, are fully understandable.
what trade agreements can contribute to this objective is to export eu standards and sustainability goals to third countries.
they can be a vehicle to convince others to implement ambitious environmental and climate policies and form part of a global response to climate change.
we need to make sure that trade can take place, whilst ensuring that it supports sustainable development and the eu’s climate goals and contributes to a sustainable future.
i would like to recall that the mercosur agreement contains a robust trade and sustainable development chapter.
the mercosur agreement contains a specific article on climate change, committing the parties to effectively implement the paris agreement.
the trade and sustainable development chapter includes commitments regarding the sustainable management of forests.
it safeguards relevant initiatives on sustainable agriculture.
the trade and sustainable development chapter also includes thematic articles on trade—related aspects of natural resources, such as biodiversity, forests and fisheries, including combating illegal logging.
the agreement provides a platform to actively engage with mercosur countries on sustainable development issues.
the agreement lists a number of areas of potential cooperation with a view to ensuring that trade supports the sustainability agenda.
it also offers civil society organisations an active role to overview the implementation of the agreement, including any environmental concerns.
finally, the trade and sustainable development chapter is fully legally binding and enforceable.
on this basis, the commission unveiled a 15—point plan to make the eu sustainable development chapters more robust and effective.
what was obtained from mercosur in terms of environmental and sustainability commitments is the outcome of very long and arduous negotiations.
we can be confident that an agreement with mercosur that contributes to sustainable trade with the region, including a binding commitment by the mercosur countries to implement the paris climate deal, will provide the eu with the necessary leverage to pursue our ambitious climate and sustainability goals.
the recent forest fires in the amazon are representative of the sustainability challenges facing mercosur, but i am convinced that it is only through working with mercosur that we can get the change and global transformation we so much want to see.
it sets out an ambitious roadmap for the eu to become climate neutral by 2050, cutting emissions, restoring the health of our natural environment, protecting our wildlife, creating new economic opportunities and improving the quality of life of our people.
this will require important changes to our economy, our energy mix, our industrial processes, our production and consumption, and it is clear that our trade policy will have to play its part.
as is the case with the recent eu trade agreements, it will include a ‘trade and sustainable development’ chapter.
the trade and sustainability chapter (tsd) also addresses issues such as biodiversity, circular economy, waste management and responsible business conduct in supply chains.
the agreement will therefore help keep our consumers healthy, but it also will safeguard our high environmental and food-safety standards.
the ‘political and cooperation’ part of the agreement foresees cooperation based on the un framework convention on climate change and the paris agreement.
in order to work together towards the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, you will also find in this part of the agreement provisions for dialogue and cooperation on issues such as oceans, seas and energy.
it will be easier to provide environmental services.
the agreement will help lower the carbon footprint of production in mercosur.
the agreement will encourage green public procurement and sustainable procurement practices.
strong ipr rules and improved enforcement frameworks will facilitate a more extended use of environmental and green technology transfer.
as always, implementation is key, and we need to take a more assertive trade and sustainable stance in our tsd policy, in line with the 15-point action plan for tsd implementation which was agreed in february 2018. i can assure this parliament that the commission will remain vigilant in this work and in this task.
this will be an important new role, not only for market access issues but, equally, for trade and sustainability issues, on which we will all acknowledge there is an important and increasing focus.
it is a milestone in legal history because we will have - commissioner hogan has also said this - for the first time an enforcement mechanism in a plurilateral trade agreement for environmental and social standards.
if we want to get climate action beyond your symbolic politics and emergency declarations, then we europeans must not only lead the way, but also ensure that the rest of the world follows our standards.
i welcome this very much, because it is the commission's response not only to the devastating climate and environmental crisis, but also to the tens of thousands of young people who have been taking to the streets every week for a year now all over europe.
commission president von der leyen herself says that the eu will be climate neutral by 2050. to achieve this objective, action is needed in all sectors of the economy.
yes, let's take the mercosur agreement, which undermines all our climate efforts.
we are facing an ecological crisis with our eyes wide open.
the eu is promoting this with its trade policy and is also making a pact with bolsonaro, who tramples on human rights and is sabotaging the entire climate negotiations in madrid.
we need sustainable supply chains, and the commission must now finally bring forward legislation to do so.
environmental and social standards must be subject to appeal and not to a toothless tiger, as is the case at present.
products must be differentiated according to their carbon footprint and production processes, and we urgently need to include climate protection in all chapters of trade agreements.
in the face of the ecological crisis facing mankind today, should we as the eu agree to an agreement whose explicit aim is to further boost trade in beef and soy?
mr bolsonaro himself said it at cop 25: what does he care about climate protection?
but what is still at stake is a dramatic loss of biodiversity.
the amazon is the largest haven for biodiversity on the planet with over 40 000 plant species, 16 000 tree species, 4 500 species of fish, birds and mammals that are unique to the region.
one in ten of the world's known animal and plant species lives in the amazon ecosystem.
the eu-mercosur agreement in its current form is counteracting the necessary environmental change.