do we want to invest in business as usual, spending money on outdated approaches and supporting the technology of the past, or should we invest in the tools of the future, the europe of tomorrow, where growth doesn’t have an equal burden in terms of climate and sustainability?
we have a chance to vote for a fund that puts climate first when investing taxpayers’ money.
along with ambitious colleagues from a number of parties, i have fought for higher sustainability and energy targets.
dear colleagues – and especially the colleagues on the conservative side of this chamber – please join us in voting for an eu investment programme that puts climate and the future first.
– mr president, i would like to say to the prime minister that his country, finland, is among the world leaders in many areas from clean energy and gender equality to social progress.
where is your ambition to make europe the world leader in a transformation to a sustainable development model in a just way where all people are included?
we live in times when our earth and our sources of life are under attack from climate change and pollution.
but our citizens and our workers are also tired of being the only ones paying for the transformation to a more sustainable way of production.
we need to change the stability and growth pact to become a true sustainability pact for europe.
therefore we have drawn up a plan to shift towards more sustainable ways of working, producing, living which go hand in hand with social progress for the people – a just transition – with the united nations development goals as our signpost.
prime minister, we see forces that are tearing our societies apart, but we need this radical change to social democracy and to more sustainable equality.
this is not only making a mockery of ordinary citizens and regular companies in europe who are paying their fair taxes to contribute to society, but it is an existential threat to well-functioning welfare states, societal fairness and a sustainable transition in europe.
air pollution kills - i repeat: air pollution kills!
it is estimated that every single year in the eu 4 000 000 of our citizens die prematurely as a result of air pollution.
farmers need to reduce their air pollution, both in terms of co2, ammonia and methane gases.
fortunately, i know that the commission is also supporting this, but we need to ensure that cities have the right to create environmental zones and take all possible measures to protect their citizens in cities from this very harmful pollution.
i hope that the present commission will help to lay a very good foundation so that we can also tackle this air pollution problem in the next five years in a very serious way.
we have to make sure that air pollution is reduced so that people don't die from it.
and i know that there is disappointment that, for example, mandatory requirements for the built environment are not part of the legislation.
i am glad, however, that the built environment was included, albeit on a voluntary basis, and that the commission is to assess how far the member states have come in this area a few years after the law has come into force.
we want to integrate sustainability.
we want to integrate and fight against climate change in our trade agreements.
it is against environmental activists, workers' rights, religious or ethnic minorities, or in general against people who dare to be critical of the regime.
we should have done so, because i fear that we are - and we risk being - losing the climate fight if we are not ambitious enough!
we see teenagers across europe demonstrating for a better climate and demanding solutions to the climate change that will send people fleeing drought and flooding in the coming years.
they are demanding solutions to the air pollution that kills 400 000 europeans every year.
too many governments are stuck in narrow national interests that block the important green transition, and the negotiations on the big energy package are unfortunately a good example of this, because even though wind and solar are now cheaper than coal, the green transition to renewable energy is still too slow.
although a stronger joint agency, acer, can help ensure that wind energy from the north sea can provide europe with green electricity at the mains, many governments still prefer to keep old coal-fired power stations alive.
these kinds of struggles are, of course, a big problem, because the lack of common solutions comes at the expense of the climate.
we also saw this in the negotiations on the electricity market regulation, where there were member states fighting against open and free energy frontiers.
but only by integrating renewable energy across borders can we win the climate fight.
let me be clear: the fight against climate change is the most important fight!
unfortunately, we saw this last week when our heads of government met at the summit to shake hands on a carbon-neutral europe by 2050. i'm sorry, but we were just talking.
but europe must be at the forefront of the green transition and the fight against climate change, and we must invest far more in research and new technologies than we do today.
the money can be appropriately found by creating climate taxes on plastics and on aviation fuel and on coal for my sake, and it is time that we put pressure on those governments that are not living up to the agreements that they may make.
as politicians, we cannot and should not ignore the demands of citizens to take the climate fight seriously.
at the end of 2016, the commission presented its 'great energy package'.
it can be said that in this one we have focused on adopting legislation which, in the commissioner's excellent words, is the largest overall energy legislation in the history of the eu, but it is only paper if it is not implemented.
it is absolutely crucial to the fight against climate change, and i think it is fair to say that what we have seen over the last few years is that parliament has been the one to help sustain and even raise the ambitions.
we have set higher targets for energy efficiency and for renewable energy, but the very objective of renewable energy depends on the implementation of acer, the electricity market regulation, since cross-border trade in electricity is the very prerequisite for the green transition.
the next period is also about the climate ambitions towards 2050, and to my mind there is no doubt that the eu must lead.
that is why we must aim for a co2-neutral eu by 2050. i myself recently witnessed at a climate demonstration in copenhagen that it is clear how much the people are demanding action in this area.
the problem with these diesel cars is that they pollute - they damage the environment and they damage people's health.
it's important for public health, and it's important for our environment and for our climate.
it is not fair that they should have to live with these environmental consequences.
if we in the eu are to help protect the climate, if we are to achieve our paris goals in 2015, and if we are to create a low-emission economy, then our transport sector must contribute to achieving this goal.
this is where we go in and demand that our cars become much more climate-friendly - they have to reduce their co2 consumption.
the european parliament's environment committee would like to see a 45% reduction in co2 - we get one in 37. that's just not good enough!
the young people are standing outside this parliament insisting that we make sure that we are climate friendly.
if we are to solve the climate problems of the future, our transport sector must contribute - even more than what is available here.
hopefully, it is a safe step that will take us forward - in the first place, to stop the influx of pollution.
every minute, the equivalent of a truckload of plastic waste is being dumped into the oceans - so much more needs to be done.
coming from denmark i, of course, know sweden very well and i think what you mentioned, prime minister, that the young people are now asking the older people to act when it comes to climate, is so fundamental, and i think in sweden and in the nordic countries we have actually experience of how we can do things together to be more sustainable.
in the energy area for example – electricity – we have now one nordic market because we are starting to integrate.
but i want to ask you, in concrete ways, what do you think the european union could do more to develop from a coal and steel union, as you mentioned, to become a real, true climate union?
a union where we put climate first in all of our policies.
the commissioner also said that without the directive, putin would be able to exploit a legal vacuum to further increase europe's dependence on russian energy.
we are all too dependent on imported energy from outside and we should invest much more in becoming truly independent.
first of all, by improving energy conservation, by investing in energy efficiency - which unfortunately many member states of the european union have historically been too poor - and by investing in renewable energy, which can now compete on market terms and which is becoming cheaper every year.
in this way, fighting climate change goes hand in hand with becoming less vulnerable to putin and importing energy from outside.
this applies in general to the climate fight, which we are losing because we have been trading fossil fuels for good terms for too many years.
if we are to have any chance of ensuring that the eu is carbon neutral in the future, it is no use continuing down the fossil track.
on the contrary, we must phase out the energy that causes dangerous climate change and harmful air pollution and instead invest in renewable alternatives, thus ensuring that the eu is at the forefront of the climate fight.
i have to say, madam president, we are facing a whole range of climate problems, and i think that has become clear to anyone who has followed developments, and we had a visit from greta thunberg yesterday, who also told us that.
it doesn't solve our air pollution alone, it doesn't solve our climate problems alone, but it contributes to it.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the today's vote is a climate election.
we are in the midst of an acute climate crisis.
a 50 percent reduction in co2 emissions by 2030 is not enough to avoid a climate catastrophe.
a 55 percent reduction is not enough to avoid a climate catastrophe.
we need climate action now.
therefore, vote for the climate.
vote to prevent a climate catastrophe.
the coroner concluded that her death was the result of the severe air pollution in london.
it simply cannot be right that our children's lives are being ruined by diseases caused by air pollution.
there are also committees in this house that are doing the taxonomy of what is a green investment, defining what are sustainable investments.
thank you for putting climate on the agenda.
we can and must look at the climate challenge in the light of the business opportunities that clearly lie within it.
the climate challenge presents industrial and commercial policy opportunities which the eu must seize.
we need to show that the eu knows how to use it wisely, efficiently and innovatively so that its efforts to reduce co2 emissions create more jobs and improve competitiveness.
i have to say, madam president, i am convinced that this parliament has the will to tackle the climate challenge and to consider it as a matter of urgency.
so i really want to ask the council and the commission how you are going to get together and make the most of the momentum where the eu is showing the rest of the world how europe is able to deliver the most sustainable co2 reduction through the way we use our market.
i have to say, madam president, i was sitting this morning having breakfast with my fourteen-month-old daughter, and i was thinking about this debate on climate change.
the reality is that if we don't act, the children who play in the playground today will grow up in a completely changed world with devastating storms, floods, droughts, famine and millions of climate refugees.
the eu is failing the paris agreement if we only reduce co2 emissions by 55% by 2030. we need to get up to 70% to get to the finish line.
ladies and gentlemen, vote for the climate action we need now!
as a bourgeois liberal, as a christian democrat and as a danish conservative, i believe that we do this best in the way we work with our industries and companies to enable them to change their production methods and energy consumption in a co2-neutral direction.
the extinction of the animals and insects that pollinate our plants is not only a loss to our nature and biodiversity, it is a threat to our entire ecosystem and food production.
we need a fundamental reorientation of eu agricultural aid to make room for nature and sustainability.