we will enhance our internal control and risk management environment and strengthen the three lines of defence model across the bank, both at the level of the eib management committee, as well as among the bank’s services.
ladies and gentlemen, as the eu bank, we look at structural investment needs and continue to support the eu’s transition to sustainable finance and sustainable climate.
i’m also happy to announce that the climate action signatures have reached 30.3%, far ahead of the 26% objective.
everybody knows that the european investment bank (eib) is an indispensable partner in financing infrastructure but also smes, innovations in various regions of europe, climate action, sustainable transport, artificial-related investments etc.
the commission strongly supports the bank’s ambitious climate action strategy, matching the commitments of the paris agreement.
increased investment, especially renewable energy, energy efficiency and the circular economy, focusing on high impact activities and products is key in achieving this objective.
finally, i would like to say that de-investment is great promising policy and even though mr czarnecki maybe wishes your investment into the polish coal industry we should support him as well by not investing in the non-renewable energy sector.
the agreement focuses mainly on the removal of non-tariff barriers such as the recognition of standards, product labelling and access to public procurement; it also focuses on strengthening worker protection and environmental protection.
the pca also helps to create a more favourable political and economic environment both in terms of the eu's interests and by helping to promote certain areas in singapore.
mr president, of course i have my written prepared talking points which say that the guidelines report contains many important priorities, such as youth employment, research, as well as climate spending.
even from mr kölmel, by the way, he is a good economist, but we never actually delivered as much as we had hoped on climate change policies.
and now my final point is that, on this very friday, the school strike for climate comes to estonia for the first time.
my son will be among the participants, my father, a former member of this parliament’s committee on industry, research and energy, will be there and will give his support as a climatologist.
as mr deprez said it might be his last budget speech, and so might it be mine as well because, you know, times are scary, but in climate change, we will find a way and i shall not melt away as an iceberg in the antarctica, whatever anti-europeans may think.
our special concern is the fate of nasrin sotoudeh and her husband reza khandan, who just in january were sentenced to six years because of his peaceful protest against the forced wearing of hijabs, the fate of arrested environmental and trade union activists, and the fate of maryam akbari monfared, who has already spent nine years in prison for so—called anti-god activities.
by continuing with this project, germany has unfortunately chosen to sacrifice europe’s security and long-term strategic goals over the potential short-term benefits of cheaper energy.
for putin, 11 billion is a relatively cheap price to pay for financially harming ukraine and poland, reducing europe’s energy security by increasing our dependence on russian gas and dividing western allies.
russia clearly demonstrated that it is ready to use energy as a political weapon when it restricted gas flow through ukraine in 2006 and 2009. this alone should be reason enough to abandon this unreasonable project.
in this sense, rogue data sets are much like nuclear waste, and that’s why facebook has to keep its user data on a tight leash or be fined or punished, whatever this parliament decides to apply.
the topics: security, energy, cohesion, agriculture, immigration, money laundering, social justice, china-eu, russia, etc., etc.
whether it’s about their jobs, whether it’s about immigration, whether it’s about the climate, whether it’s about security, these issues are real.
what we need to do is to tear down the barriers of the single market within the eu, to create the environment so that our own companies, national companies, can grow to become european companies, can grow to be real, tough and successful players on the international stage.
let the market in, deregulate prices, green energy will take off, smart technological solutions will take off, consumers will participate, and the market will help us make this transition.
this is security of our information, the information environment our citizens are living with, and as i said previously, i think it’s time to consider seriously legislation to look at the responsibility of social media platforms concerning the dissemination of false and misleading information which is a hamper to our democratic development.
more ambitious environmental objectives, an investment plan for sustainability that well defined requires more public investment, more public investment, full use of flexibility to ensure support for growth, european scheme for reinsurance of unemployment benefits, minimum wage, european child poverty guarantee, common consolidated corporate tax base, defence of the rule of law, humanitarian corridors, new compact for migration and asylum based on solidarity, and then, at institutional level, parliament's right of initiative, transition to the community method in crucial areas, strengthening of the spitzenkandidaten system.
our world is facing two major ecological crises: the climate crisis and the species extinction crisis.
on the climate crisis, this parliament has made it clear that we have to deliver minus 55% by 2030. you have not made it clear today that you are fully committed to this objective.
we need a clear commitment to minus 55 percent greenhouse gases by 2030.
you didn't say anything about the biodiversity crisis.
commit yourself today to presenting a new european agricultural policy that protects the climate and finally puts an end to the rapid extinction of species in an ecological sense.
he will have to balance two very different parties and interests, those on the right who want a europe that controls immigration more strongly, who want a realistic and pragmatic approach to climate, which supports the economy, growth, industry and jobs, and those on the left who have an ideological approach, who have an approach of indiscriminate reception, who have a taliban approach to the climate issue, and this will be the big problem of his mandate.
the consensus of big business, which sacrifices the environment and social rights for the profits of the multinationals.
the europe of progress, social justice, environmental protection, the europe of democracy, solidarity, cooperation and peace, this other europe will not be born of this consensus and that is why it will be elected by the same people as always.
ms von der leyen, it is positive that you plan to make the european union climate neutral by 2050 and that you are committing to putting this into law during your first 100 days.
you speak about extending the emissions trading system (ets).
we need to see much more on the environment.
we need you to speak and commit to a biodiversity strategy and we also need to understand your position on the non-toxic environment strategy.
the eu requires also a revamped industrial policy, an industry 4.0 that does not focus only on digitisation and automation but includes also the ecological aspect; an industrial policy that takes into account our current workers, our future employees, our students and our youth.
for example, on climate change you are fiddling around with the minus 50, minus 55, but what is europe going officially to put on the table when paris officially starts in december 2020?
you mentioned in your programme the biodiversity strategy, but there is no word on agricultural policies.
the carbon prices we need in order to make sure our cars get clean are way higher than those we have now.
or do we invest in fighting climate change in the service of the planet or do we invest in militarization in the service of the german arms industry?
mrs von der leyen, after our meeting, you took up the main points of our programme, you gave assurances that you would commit to a european minimum wage, a new immigration pact, ambitious climate reforms and finally to grant the legislative initiative to the european parliament.
because their commitment to climate change is undeniable, demanding and exemplary.
and the reason is that, while these issues may not be the only important ones – you mentioned climate change, the social pillar and so on – they are issues which could make or break the european union.
what is the value of the climate commitment you have just made when, in this agreement, you support a president bolsonaro who has decided to massacre the amazon for agribusiness and mining projects?
madam candidate, the agreement with mercosur is the globalisation of junk food, it is the climate change, it is the disappearance of farmers in the north and the south, farmers of whom you did not say a word in your speech.
i was listening to ms von der leyen on her climate policy, immigration policy and the federalisation of the european union.
this is why the commitment to an equal playing field on environmental standards, employment rights and consumer protections in parliament’s resolution is so important.
we talk about climate problems, we talk about migration problems, we talk about youth unemployment, but should we suddenly talk about demographic problems as well?
if europe is to survive and if we are to have a meaningful purpose in building a climate and sustainable europe, we need to ensure the future of our children as well.
mr president, i believe that all efforts to support ukraine’s reform agenda and sustainable peace in ukraine deserve to be commended.
furthermore, i believe that our efforts to achieve sustainable peace in ukraine must be driven neither by our desire to return at any cost to business as usual with russia, nor by the ukraine fatigue in our capitals, but rather by a very strong commitment to making sure that the wrongs done by the aggressor are righted and ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as its legitimate aspirations, are honoured by all.
the unfortunate us military withdrawal, unnecessary turkish military invasion and destructive russian military and political presence in syria have created a new geo-strategic shift, which can hardly be balanced or sustainable.
the kurds have opposed energy and courage until victory against daesh, even though turkey has shown and still shows duplicity.
the guidelines are grounded in a rights-based approach and their guiding principle is to leave no child behind, in line with the 2030 agenda on sustainable development.
it is time to get ready for the newly emerging challenges, such as the threat of bullying, online as well as offline, and the protection of children in situations of conflict and displacement due to the climate crisis.
if their full potential is realised, they can be the greatest agents of change and sustainable development in their communities and globally.
we see this very strongly in the climate change protests and the marches all around the world.
children are making their voices heard and are demanding that world leaders act to tackle climate change.
building a green new deal, a just transition to a low carbon economy, workers’ rights, equality, the horizontal discrimination directive: many of these have been characterised by delay, but delay because they were challenges, challenges that had to be overcome.
it has now shifted its focus to climate hysteria and the creation of a united states of europe.
mr president, let me thank the high representative, dear federica, for the excellent cooperation during the last five years, and also for her personal commitment to finding a just and sustainable resolution to this almost intractable conflict between israel and the palestinians.
with the new green deal, we want to ensure a future that is more just, more sustainable and completely climate-proof.
we cannot open our markets to these countries that – at the same time – try to profit from social and environmental competition and a race to the bottom.
if they want to be our partners in trade, they need to be our partners as well when it comes to measures on climate change.
the many new weightings of sustainability chapters in trade agreements that have been gained in recent years, the priority given to human rights, environmental protection and employment standards as prerequisites for economic and social development, are ignored.
does it contribute to the 17 un sustainable development goals?
it is counter to the green deal's goal of preserving biodiversity.
if you, the commission, want to make climate protection the focus of your work, this will include legally enforceable commitments to environmental and climate protection.
so is the green deal's attempt to put sustainable production policies in place.
i do not know what other evidence is needed to show that the agreement with the latin american countries will have a serious and negative impact on the environment.
but deforestation is not the only environmental problem in the agreement.
what is the point of limiting emissions in europe when the fires in the amazon have produced 140 million tonnes of co2 in a single summer?
colleagues, the environment knows no borders.
the european union is in a hurry to react by concluding new agreements, but we are not convinced of this agreement as it stands now, we want to see more guarantees for european farmers, an action plan to protect the amazon through sanctions that are applicable and targeted at environmental constraints.
latin america is a strategic partner for europe, but it cannot be at the expense of citizens and the protection of the environment, which belongs to everyone.
how can we guarantee that the very strong and, i have to say, fine words you spoke in your speech about the depth of this deal around environmental and other issues – how can we be sure that they will actually be implemented in the mercosur countries?
there is a sustainability chapter, where the implementation and enforcement of the paris agreement on climate change is called for, where sustainable forestry is called for, and where the core labour standards of the international labour organization are called for.
secondly, we must make the good approaches in the sustainability chapter practical, concrete steps on how to actually implement the issue of sustainable forestry and how to ensure that workers' rights are respected.
and then to add to this the new state religion: climate change.
billions of euros will be spent transforming european society in order to achieve so-called carbon neutrality by 2050, and this while countries such as china and india feel no co2 shame and happily continue to grow their economies.
apart from the effect the green deal will have on the agricultural sector, it will also gravely affect countries relying on fossil fuels for energy supply, and as a result the workers that earn their living in these sectors.
my country is largely self-sufficient when it comes to energy supply but relies heavily on its domestic oil shale reserves for this.
with a new green deal, estonia will be forced to become reliant on other countries for their energy supply.
however, according to recent findings biofuels are not the solution to hunger, environmental disasters or anything else.
the quantities of biofuels needed to generate the necessary energy supply actually increase greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.
to put it plainly, wasting energy to produce energy.
furthermore, the crops and land that could have been used for food supply are instead used to produce energy, and instead of worrying about the compatibility of the eu mercosur fda and the european green deal, the elected representatives of the european citizens should rather be more concerned about the devastating impact both these initiatives will have on farmers in particular and european citizens in general.