the second is sustainable finance, i.e.
the inclusion of environmental indicators in the activities and lending of banks.
so we agree that we need a more sustainable system to deal with the challenges that we face.
but let me also express my strong concern on developments in guatemala and the expulsion of the un international commission against impunity, which is a very serious deterioration of the political and business climate in the country.
and commissioner, i’d like to hear from you about the complaint by the peruvian trade unions on their suspected lowering of environmental and social standards, due allegedly to the free trade agreement.
it is important to create a culture of action where all crimes and offences, such as serious negligence in the care of the elderly, as well as tax evasion and environmental offences, are courageously reported to the supervisory authorities as soon as they are detected.
the unity of the european union, and also its economic sustainability, is being challenged from many directions and in many ways.
mr president, i would like to ask you, mr president of the council, what you think could be done to ensure that the burden of, for example, climate change and the burden of migration is distributed as evenly as possible between the member states?
justice is the key to a safer and more human europe, whether it is about people's livelihoods, work or the fight against climate change, so that everyone can participate in their own way, not be excluded.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
it is precisely the message that europe needs for its own future, if we are to think about how to create sustainable growth in europe, how to remain competitive in this situation, when the digital economy is changing the world.
the european and african forestry fund must be supported from both a climate and employment perspective.
that you can’t do but sustainable development – yes – you can do and you can do it profitably.
so it is just a matter of taking the initiative, so thank you to the commission for the sustainable finance and circular economy packages.
that is linked to sustainable finance, put it to work and harmonise the indicators and lifecycle analyses.
secondly, the renewable eco-design directives, so that it is horizontal.
thirdly, specific programmes on food, sustainable food, so this concerns the whole lifecycle, buildings – they are a major element – and textiles, there is going to be a growing challenge in the area.
and then on sustainable finance we need to review the existing financial regulation to include the sustainability principles.
i would say yes, it’s pretty much there where we can gain the sustainable elements if we can make the commission deliver and then parliament and the council to deliver in turn.
i think it is very good that the focus has now been on innovation, investment in clean energy, the circular economy, the promotion of digitalisation and, above all, of course, modern, intelligent infrastructure.
– mr president, i am extremely happy to say that the voluntary partnership agreements on forest law enforcement, governance and trade are an excellent example of combining a trade instrument with sustainable development.
there is also a direct link between this voluntary partnership agreement with vietnam and the european union and vietnam free trade agreement: namely, chapter 13, on sustainable development, of the free trade agreement, which still has to be ratified, has a reference to the implementation of this voluntary partnership agreement.
as we know, deforestation has become ever more critical as the scientific understanding of its importance to climate change has grown.
indeed, preventing deforestation and increasing carbon stocks are issues that have a significant impact on combating climate change.
vietnam has taken the right steps towards sustainable forestry and is now committed to ensuring that timber products and wood products entering the eu are legally produced.
this is probably the most effective trade instrument we have in order to combat the negative developments that are making it impossible to implement true sustainable development.
this has been shown by the environmental inspection agency in myanmar, and we now have credible allegations that vietnam has started to replace imports from cambodia with imports from the drc.
we need to create an enabling environment.
it means the built environment, housing, various products and above all the step here taken in digital services, which threaten to exclude a large number of people.
lilly lives in the netherlands and is one of the youngest climate strikers to have demonstrated week after week at school on fridays.
he was one of 60 young climate activists invited to the european parliament this week.
it's just so great and wonderful that young people are doing this - striking and taking a stand for the climate.
we know very well that the ambition of climate policy must be doubled compared to current decisions and that on this basis the 2030 climate targets must be adjusted accordingly.
i am very pleased that the resolution also takes account of indoor air pollution.
eu countries are poorly placed in terms of sustainability of consumption and production patterns.
for example, the transition to climate neutrality, resource efficiency and a circular economy are key to strengthening the eu's growth and competitiveness.
i hope that at the sibiu summit in romania in may, the eu will show leadership and bring sustainable development strongly into the debate on the future of europe.
madam president, the commission’s reflection paper shows that the sustainable development goals (sdgs) must guide all the eu’s policy work as a matter of urgency.
we need an overarching eu sustainability strategy and, likewise, concrete and time-bound deliverables for 2030. the sdgs also require a new way of policy making, which must be cross-sectoral and not embedded in silence.
– madam president, the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp) instrument has a great potential to ensure that trade and sustainable development are intrinsically linked.
it does not necessarily improve social and environmental conditions, it does not necessarily promote human rights.
there is no doubt that the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms and principles of market economy and sustainable development must be at the core of the negotiations.
mr president, the commission has presented two possible road maps for how to get to net zero emissions by 2050 at the latest, but that goal means that we have to tighten up the targets already for 2030. today, again, parliament has voted in favour of the target of 55% reduction in emissions by 2030, i.e.
schoolchildren in finland are going on a climate strike next friday because they want us adults, the decision-makers, to act.
when i have been around talking to people, they ask a very pertinent question about what they can do to combat climate change, to reduce emissions, to reduce particulate matter, and in particular the owners of diesel vehicles ask what their legal protection is, when they have bought these vehicles in good faith and then the truth has been different for these particularly periodic emissions.
i therefore felt that we had to think more broadly about the whole of combustion engine technology, the whole of the future of diesel vehicles, and how they can be replaced and how we can ensure that biodiesel made from waste and waste also reaches the market, when there seems to be difficulties in that too.
it's the last piece of the so-called clean energy package.
because improving the functioning of the electricity market is a prerequisite for improving energy security and for increasing the share of renewable energy in our energy systems.
europe's climate and energy actions are proof that we can work together.
in finland, an electrical car would produce emissions by kilometres of 48 g/km.
in germany, an electrical car would actually produce emissions of about 131 g/km and that was actually the reason why we had a hard fight.
i can tell you, my 7—year—old diesel, with renewable second-generation advanced biofuel, produces less co2 emissions per kilometre than an electrical car in germany.
thank you very much, and we're going to continue this with great energy to change everything.
we want to allocate 45% of the funding to climate and environmental action.
sustainable development, human rights, democracy, human development and equality, and poverty eradication will continue to serve as a good guideline for external relations.
during the discussion of this matter, i had a visit from the norwegian minister for the environment.
i do hope that the commission will take charge and make separate programmes on textiles and tyres, and start by banning the plastic in food packaging, because there is the endocrine disrupter problem there also, and that we can have used—carbon—based safe packaging.
it will give farmers a wider and much better range of products in a more sustainable way.
in this way we ensure better protection for people and animals and are one step closer to a cleaner environment, cleaner water and cleaner food.
first, some estimates suggest that up to 40% of drinking water is lost to distribution systems, a situation that is unsustainable from an environmental, economic and user perspective.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water quality of the water supply system is not affected by the pollution of the environment.
we know that the pressures on the water resources from which drinking water is produced will continue to increase, and at the same time the risks of pollution will increase.
and it means that our environment is under threat because we are investing in the wrong end of the economy.
but then again, the good news is that eur 30 trillion is a lot of money and as we have a clear indication what kind of investments are environmentally—friendly, sustainable and not causing significant harm in other fields, then we have plenty of money to turn the wheel and support environmentally—sustainable economies and investments.
we need only eur 180 billion every year to invest in combating climate change.
the question is about transferring that money from economically and environmentally risky investments to more sustainable investments.
we need to define – and this is what this legislation is all about – the environmental requirements and, in the future, as a backstop, the social requirements that we consider to be sustainable.
what that means is that in the case of palm oil, for example, you can’t focus on one issue like climate change and say this is a good investment if it causes significant harm in other fields of the environment like biodiversity in indonesia and orang-utans.
so the reference to significant environmental harm or other harm and the backstop makes consistent sense of how we understand and define sustainability.
frankly, with climate change, could you really call a coal investment a green investment?
they are willing to move, and they are willing to change the investment structure transparently so that it is more sustainable.
we cannot go back to them after five to ten years, like it is with the 2030 targets on climate reduction, and say ‘look, we got it wrong, now we are changing the rules of the game once again’, and after five or ten years go back and say ‘look, actually, palm oil was a huge mistake, you shouldn’t invest in it’ – because the money and investment is already there.
we have to set that kind of a taxonomy that takes other aspects other than just climate on board, that gives the right incentives and guidance for investors and that is reliable from the investment perspective for the upcoming 30 years.
when we implemented the common fisheries policy in the previous mandate, we actually created the conditions for achieving sustainable fisheries.
but at the same time we also realise that the structures, the economic and social structures, around fisheries were not really designed to maintain sustainable fisheries and we are faced with this issue today in the same way as many times before.
my opinion was not to give money to islands that are very well sustainable without that help and that money.
at the same time, we must pursue cooperation, which has enormous potential, including in the fight against climate change, where both china and the eu are global leaders, when the paris agreement is implemented.
the eu and china must also consider cooperation in emissions trading, where both countries are indeed pioneers.
this is a good idea and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has made a great deal of improvements in this area of consumer protection.
one is the so-called liikanen package, and that refers to the firewalls between the retail banking and investment banking, and the other part is that the banks and lending should be part of the sustainable finance, because there we have a broiling financial crisis and risks that are embedded in sunk investments in fossil fuels, for example.
secondly, the committee on transport very strongly supports the emphasis on climate objectives in the future research programme.
thirdly, we consider it a very good solution that a separate cluster has not been created for transport, but that we are trying to operate as inter-administratively as possible and to make use of the funds allocated to energy, climate and transport, as well as the funds allocated to digitalisation and industry.
mr president, i had the honour to get to know mr kariņš, now prime minister, as a good colleague in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) working for the energy, digital and common europe.
but the beauty of the single market is also that we can be brave when we talk about climate change, because together we can steer the markets, which no country can do alone.
and that is also the beauty for normal families – families with children, where there is a need for a car – that in the car markets there are new, cheaper cars available, not only with the belt but with lower emissions, and with the market of more than 20% of the single market, we can do it.
this regulation is very much in line with the targets set by the committee on transport: car manufacturers must reduce emissions by 15% by 2025 and 30% by 2030. it is a very ambitious but nonetheless possible objective.
it is significant that for the first time in the european union, maximum emission limits for co2 emissions from heavy duty vehicles are being set.
it would be important to take into account the total energy consumption of the fuel used and, in the future, to include life cycle approaches.
we should also be able to take greater account of technological neutrality in the future, because it is certain that reducing transport emissions is such a challenge that all solutions are needed and we should not choose a single fuel.
it has to be alternative fuels that have lower emissions than the electricity we currently use.
the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 18 april 2019.
the following is the report by mr zdzisław krasnodębski, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european defence fund (com ((2018) 0476 - c8-0268/2018 - 2018/0254 (cod)) (a8-0412/2018).
and how can we, for example, better monitor, through electronic monitoring, whether the fleet is actually complying with environmental standards in terms of discharges, fishing requirements or, for example, the dumping and recycling of various waste and by-flows in the harbour?
at this point we have about 30 trillion invested in unsustainable strained assets that are coal-dependent or otherwise climate- or environmentally-risky.
but it is good news that we can guide that investment towards those challenges where we very well know what we have in investing for sustainability on combating climate change.
that’s why i regard this regulation about these clauses as the mother of all sustainable finance regulations.
it is the question how you disclose not only environmentally-friendly actions but the whole impact of your activities in the environment.
so it is the negative, it is the positive, it’s everything in between, and it is not only climate but it is all the others, like biodiversity, for example, indirect land use, water consumption and so on, to avoid this kind of palm oil investment crisis.
and the next step is to broaden the scope, so that it touches the investing companies so that the investors do get the proper information, and that it touches all sizes and types of companies and all levels of the production chain, so we can talk about environmental accounting and that the information needs to be used on decisions on investments.
the climate issue is important and this challenge must be met in a sensible way, defending finnish and european industry.
finland should also demand that the eu set an example on climate change and propose that we stop this bickering between brussels and strasbourg.
i am very pleased that, in the midst of all the great challenges we are facing, finland has dared to put climate change and how to solve it at the centre.
but in the midst of all this, the climate must not be left behind.
we are talking far too little about the need to tackle climate change in a socially just way.
we must be able to carry out an ecological reconstruction of our societies, a new climate-resilient society.
citizens must see climate solutions as fair, to support them and to prevent them from becoming a cause that divides us further.
special support should be provided for regions where climate solutions imply major structural changes.
and if and when aid and investment are properly directed, we can, while addressing climate change, create sustainable economic growth and new climate jobs.
a carbon-neutral eu by 2050 is also a possibility if we do it right.
the reductions in emissions must be tightened up, the traceability of emissions trading must be improved and strengthened, and tax solutions must be made available that steer both consumption and production in a sustainable direction.
openness and transparency are essential if this common european project is to continue in a sustainable way.
i am especially delighted that you have put two very important issues so high on your agenda: the struggle against climate change and the need to respect the rule of law, also in our own member states.
but my main question and my main point is on climate change.
it is not enough to discuss the 2050 carbon neutrality target if we want to achieve what we have promised in the paris agreement, that is that we are actually limiting global warming to 1.5°.
this should be taken up this autumn in order for the european union to be strong in the un discussions when the secretary-general is organising a meeting on climate.
at the age of 16, i've already started working in the forest and i've seen how forests are grown, managed and used and how biodiversity is preserved and everything is fine.
they are indeed a source of refreshment, they have been a source of well-being, and today we realize that they are of enormous importance to carbon lives.
the key is that we do sustainable forestry and that we can learn a lot from each other.
these fires have produced more emissions than the combined emissions of industry and energy production in many countries.
my message is that the economic use and management of forests in a sustainable manner and with respect for biodiversity is an effective deterrent to forest fires and the right and safe way to deal with the climate issue.
the future winners in both business and public administration are those who are able to adapt their production to the future, to the limits that climate change requires of us.
at present, progress towards sustainable development is being hampered by four phenomena: the increase in inequality, the increase in climate change, the increase in the waste problem and the continued loss of biodiversity.
the rate of loss of biodiversity is accelerating at an alarming rate.
we must remember that while biodiversity is a value in itself, it is also a question of resilience for this planet, how this planet will be able to adapt to the inevitable warming that is ahead of us.
if we were to spend as much energy on the well-being of europeans as we do on immigration, europe as a whole would do so much better.
mr president, we are facing a climate emergency of unprecedented scale.
today, the world meteorological organization said that there is no sign of slowdown – let alone decline – in emissions.
it is not enough to speak of climate emergency today; now it’s time to speak about climate action.
our own emission reduction targets have to be increased; we have to protect our own biodiversity; and we have to move towards 100% renewables within europe.
(introduction without a microphone) ... to reduce emissions in the european union by 23 per cent over eight years.
i therefore also do not think that any climate emergency should be declared.
we've decided to phase out coal by 2030. we have decided that finland will be a carbon-neutral country as early as 2035. my wish is that we here decide on common commitments.
climate change is something that europe has already been at the forefront of.
but it is equally clear that the big demand of the european elections was for all of us to be able to implement a real programme for a transition to a carbon-neutral europe.
it is therefore important that social justice is at the heart of the response to climate change when the council discusses the necessary action.
there is no time to waste on the financial framework.
the fight against climate change needs its funding.
open-border immigration, islamization, climate hysteria, industrial job losses and the deterioration of welfare services are among the reasons why mainstream parties lose elections.
but it must be added to this, and it must be recalled here, that there are also many countries in the european union where forest protection, the preservation of biodiversity and the industrial use of forests go hand in hand in a sustainable way.
at the same time, we are exploiting the forest in an industrial, sustainable way.
the forest is being used to make bio-based, renewable, sustainable products.
i would like to say that there is still a lot to be done in europe and worldwide to protect forests and to promote their sustainable use - to make sure that these two things go hand in hand.
after all, the recipe for fighting climate change is very simple: reduce emissions, raise carbon stocks and raise money to support green reconstruction.
in order to achieve the 2050 target of carbon neutrality, it is necessary to ensure that the 2030 target is achieved and is sufficiently ambitious.
we have just declared a climate emergency and you are presenting a 2030 emissions reduction target that is below scientific knowledge.
it is also insufficient because the programme does not contain sufficient means to strengthen the carbon sinks.
the foundations of both agriculture and forestry must change fundamentally if carbon sinks are to be strengthened.
madam president, the climate emergency is here.
i’ve seen, as a former mp and minister of the environment, a number of commissions, and this is the first commission that sees climate action as a broad challenge that all the commissioners have to address.
are you prepared to increase the energy efficiency targets and renewables targets?
because energy is at the core of the transformation that we are doing.
75% of our emissions come from energy, so we need to hasten the energy transformation.
mr president, europe is doing its part, but we cannot save the whole planet, because the eu's emissions are 10% of the world's emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the current economic crisis.
climate has always changed, and species have died, regardless of human activity.
no amount of emissions reductions will be enough if we can't stop population growth.
the population explosion is the biggest challenge facing the climate - and we need to find solutions.
the end result of eu climate policy must not be indebtedness, poverty and a loss of purchasing power.
the eu's climate policy must not improve the competitiveness of the asian and us economies at the expense of european countries, as this will only increase global emissions.
madam president, i think that the failures of madrid give more light to the obvious prospect ahead of us that 2020 will be the crucial year for climate.
that is the last year and the last cop when we actually still have a chance of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees, or even close to that.
there was a bad deal on the table and i applaud the commission and the presidency that you didn’t take that, because it would make it totally, utterly useless to have these cops if we just give more room to those who just want to use climate for their business opportunities, get credits for free and not support climate legitimacy.
accounting and reporting rules must be agreed in such a way as to avoid double counting and to safeguard both environmental objectives and social justice.
we must make it clear to our trading partners that we will not give unfair competitive advantages to those who are not responsible, but will create a carbon tariff at the eu's border if necessary, and that we will demand stricter environmental provisions from the trade agreement, starting with mercosur.
mr president, minister tuppurainen, the much-anticipated madrid climate summit ended in a complete failure.
in finland, the climate-mad government is using every opportunity to punish citizens with additional taxes, using the climate as an excuse.
it also emerged that the eu intends to allocate 100 billion in climate finance to developing countries.
the diversity of nature is a value in itself, but it is also a key element in the fight against climate change.
the rich biodiversity strengthens the planet's ability to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead.
they are found in agriculture, forestry and land use change, and they are the ones we have to address if we want to stop the radical loss of biodiversity and pollinators.
the common agricultural policy must therefore be able to support farmers in the form of agricultural subsidies in the cultivation of techniques which promote biodiversity and preserve pollinators, which are vital for all of us.
they have a serious obsession with climate - by the way, the greens are the most damaging party group of the moment.
there's nothing in their delusional world that doesn't have to do with climate.
the eu has set over-reaching and unrealizable emissions targets, which at most tax us to death and distribute the money wherever it happens to go.
the green deal is voluntary, but it's a short step from enforcement if the climate hysterics get their way.