at the end of 2017, the european commission declared the european citizens' initiative entitled 'ban glyphosate and protect people and the environment from toxic pesticides' eligible.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
madam president, protecting the health of 500 million europeans, preserving the richness of our biodiversity, that is our responsibility.
let us not oppose agriculture and the environment: all agriculture has its place and meets different expectations.
above all, we must support farmers in the face of global competition: let's not import agriculture that we do not want, otherwise we will shoot ourselves in the foot, both in terms of health and environment and economy.
they usually meet the latest environmental and safety standards.
hired vehicles are hence good both for road safety and the environment.
first, one amendment would allow a member state to restrict the use of hired vehicles by a foreign operator that do not meet the latest environmental standards.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'.
he says that to solve the problem of global warming, we must produce co2-free electricity by 2050. however, the iter project has been very late and the first prototype to produce electricity will not arrive until 2050. so we're spending a lot of money on a project that's going to be too late.
we're at 20 billion euros, and the us department of energy has estimated the cost of iter, including operation, at 65 billion euros.
so we have to look at things rationally and i do not think iter is the solution to global warming.
1 000 billion for the european union, which should be used to finance schools, hospitals, transport, environmental transition, instead of filling the bank accounts of the minority of the richest 1%.
as you know, parliament's position on this matter is clear: the european project needs an ambitious level of spending, geared towards the implementation of the sustainable development objectives, starting with the fight against global warming and the fight against social and territorial inequalities.
the investment objectives adopted seem to us to be quite exemplary in relation to what the economic strategy of the european union should be, since they reconcile sustainable development, the objectives of the paris conference and social investment, not to mention the creative and cultural industries.
finally, we believe that, again at the initiative of this parliament, the strengthening of the national development banks will only improve the ability of such a plan to succeed and to finance, where necessary, the investments needed for better growth creating sustainable jobs in europe.
colombia, as you all know, is an economic heavyweight that does not respect health standards, environmental standards, human rights, children's rights or labour law.
thank you for this speech, which gives the european union a glimmer of hope by highlighting social issues, ecological issues, issues of solidarity and values, as well as european budgetary issues where you have been extremely ambitious, given that 1% of the gdp of the member states is not enough to have strong european proposals.
you can count on us to continue to be consistent and to make this alliance with progressive left-wing and environmental forces.
you must, and this has been stressed, reduce your dollar-funded projects for obvious reasons concerning the united states, fight, perhaps beyond what we want in parliament, against poverty and, in fact, fight against climate change, in order to go in the direction of what europe wants.
the decommissioning plan established by lithuania, and agreed by the commission, has scheduled activities until 2038, when all pre-existing installations will have been removed and the radioactive waste safely stored or disposed of.
we really want to establish within the european union a pillar of social, environmental and economic rights, which would ensure that the european union has a real foundation and can move forward on these terms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of our debate is to combat the climate of hatred and physical violence against democratically elected office holders.
you can kill european climate regulations.
so, frankly, negotiating with trump, negotiating under these conditions, negotiating against the climate, against our food sovereignty, is nonsense, it has to stop!
including this species in a management plan is therefore a key step towards the sustainable management of this stock.
for all these stocks we will now have sustainable and planned management, offering greater predictability to the fisheries sector.
in any case, to return to our subject, we must achieve sustainable fisheries management as soon as possible.
i am confident that the management plans will enable us to achieve our sustainability and selectivity objectives in the most appropriate way.
you said it, commissioner, and i repeat it: maximum sustainable yield must be achieved for all stocks by 2020. this is where management plans will obviously be useful.
however, we have taken time, far too long, to put them in place and now the target of maximum sustainable yield by 2020 seems difficult to achieve, i must say.
commissioner, what is the answer to this cruel paradox that we ask our farmers to maintain our biodiversity while leaving them to fend for themselves in the face of the attacks of these large predators, without caring about the economic and psychological impact they suffer?
this is because there is still a lot of room for improvement in the sustainable use of pesticides, particularly in terms of alternatives.
mr president, the 2009 directive on the use of pesticides compatible with sustainable development had relevant and coherent objectives and encouraged pesticide reduction and alternatives.
because when you look at the figures from the european environment agency, they show a 10 to 20 percent increase in the demand for pesticides.
at the same time - and contrary to what my colleagues say - we see that in terms of biodiversity, there is a decline in invertebrates, insects, ecosystems and also birds.
the commission - and the report that has been given is very clear on this - must encourage alternatives, put money into it and develop sustainable agriculture.
and sustainable farming is without pesticides, without chemicals.
once again, some are trying to set agriculture and the environment against each other, playing on the legitimate fears of our fellow citizens.
we must take a positive approach to the role of agriculture in the ecological transition and its relation to environmental issues.
if this text is in line with this approach, i would like to remind everyone, including you, commissioner, that the cap is first and foremost an agricultural policy and not an environmental policy.
however, the cap must help farmers to achieve both economic and environmental performance.
the ecological transition will be successful, if it is economically viable, or it will not be.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr ivo belet, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of the cross-border healthcare directive (2018/2108 (ini)) (a8-0046/2019).
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by ms simona bonafè, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the minimum requirements for water reuse (com (2018) 0337 c8-0220/2018 2018/0169 cod)) (a8-0044/2019).
this particularly worrying phenomenon, due to warming and climate change, affects entire territories in southern europe, which face water supply crises and intense water stresses every year.
i am therefore in favour of increasing good practices in waste water collection and reuse, particularly for irrigation purposes.
only then can we meet the triple requirement of protecting human and animal health, protecting the environment and safeguarding our water supplies.
madam president, this proposal for a regulation on the reuse of waste water and treated water from domestic, industrial or agricultural sources is a major issue and, in our view, for three main reasons.
beyond the question of transparency, accountability and the need to support research and innovation, i would like to mention one point which is particularly important to me: the health status of crops must not be affected by the quality of the treated waste water.
in order to ensure efficient use of treated urban waste water resources, it is necessary to inform farmers so that they can use this recycled water in an optimal way for their production and do not risk impacting it on health.
yes, there will be less traffic, fewer trucks, but most importantly less pollution.
my question, mr prime minister, is this: do you not think that the old and fraternal bond between our two countries deserves better than this ponti report, which lacks methodological rigor and environmental concern?
so from this point of view, there is nothing new in this agreement with singapore; no constraints on environmental standards, private courts that will favour business over the state, no binding social standards, rights for investors, but never obligations.
these arbitration tribunals where tens of thousands of singapore-based multinationals will be able to attack european states on the environment, on health, on public services and now even on debt restructuring!
the 'all profit', 'all growth' and gdp as the only indicator clearly show that things need to change and that this model does not live up to the ambitions of the 17 sustainable development goals voted in 2015. and our public policies should be conditioned by a number of elements.
we can no longer continue our public policies as we have in the past and we need to consider, in coherence with the 30% climate target, the cap, our main public policy, to put food and human health back at the heart of the policy debate.
we see the result: europe is in environmental, social, economic and political crisis.
thank you for having taken up the issue of simplification, for having included the 'children's guarantee' in this project, for having kept the three types of region and therefore for having increased the co-financing rates and the 30% on the climate challenge that is our common responsibility.
we need fairer taxation, taxation that is both more social and more environmentally friendly, that accompanies the indispensable energy transition while helping the most modest, because the two must go hand in hand.
the end of the inf treaty means the obsolescence of a treaty which, under pressure from environmental and peace activists, has made it possible to massively reduce the number of nuclear missiles stationed in europe.
from the breach of our privacy to financial embezzlement, the lack of serious regulatory standards puts our digital environment under threat of cyberattacks.
our farmers must comply with social, health and environmental rules which are not imposed on farmers in these countries.
in fact, if we are to succeed in the agro-ecological transition and to develop local production, it is imperative to rebalance the balance of power in favour of small operators.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, thank you to our rapporteur, who has put a lot of energy into making these funds acceptable - let us say, not worse.
mr president, climate change is a major concern for everyone on the planet.
the first is the sole responsibility of humanity, after 200 years of wild industrialization and productivity race, with uncontrolled carbon energy debauchery.
the other is a result of natural climate cycles, as evidenced by studies of polar ice, and caused, at the end of the last ice age, a rise in temperature of more than 4°c and a sea level rise of 120 metres.
stop saying that man and living organisms are responsible for everything; to get out of the paris agreement's angelicism; to catch up with the european union's phenomenal backwardness in terms of technology and innovative alternative solutions; cease to conclude non-environmental free trade agreements; reject globalisation and commercialisation of water, air and land and anticipate their management; limiting the pseudo-environmental constraints that drive down the cost of cars, housing and food, and justify increasingly unbearable taxes on people.
madam president, climate change will again be on the agenda of the next european council on 21 and 22 march.
this is a cornish dilemma for the european union: on the one hand, it claims to save the planet by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, on the other hand, it encourages unrestrained free trade with the whole earth, which mechanically leads to an increase in the same greenhouse gas emissions.
we are forced to import products from countries that do not meet the same environmental, health and social standards.
producing, consuming and recycling within a reasonable geographical area is the only way to reconcile our ecological requirements with our economic interests.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, donald trump is the man who a few years ago said that global warming is a complete hoax.
just a few weeks ago, when the us congress drafted a climate report, with 300 scientists pointing out the dramatic effects of climate change, including on the united states, president trump said, "i don't believe it".
so if we have the courage, if we want to show in this period that the european union is an economic power, a political power, if we want to show that the european union defends its values on climate and on all social and environmental issues, we cannot start negotiations with the united states.
i am not sure whether you are convinced of the climate change or not.
it is time to opt for another model, one that is more sustainable, more social, and more respectful of people and the environment.
today, we must take advantage of this success to move to a new stage, and we know that this stage is also linked to a new environment, where the issue of risk sharing and risk reduction has taken absolutely considerable steps, both with the adoption of the npl package (non-performing loans) and the banking package.
we see clearly in this air sector that social and environmental issues are closely linked.
the explosion of air traffic is a social and climate bomb.
let me remind you that the aviation sector is responsible for 3% of global emissions, the equivalent of the emissions of a country like germany.
we saw that when the paris agreement was signed in 2015 to save the climate, the sector was even excluded from the negotiations.
but what makes me sad is that today europe is submitting to a global system that refuses to play its part in the fight against global warming.
the air sector is an economic challenge, a social challenge, but above all it is a climate challenge.
the commission is too silent on this climate challenge.
what we are advocating is a budget that focuses on investment in a sustainable and inclusive development relationship.
first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, monica hohlmeier, for her initial proposals of high quality, her budgetary guidelines which have made it possible to work towards a constructive compromise and which have given each of us, the negotiators, the opportunity to feed a constructive report for a sustainable european future.
it is also important to remember the protection of european citizens and the respect of the commitments made in the fight against climate change under the paris agreement.
the second priority is to strengthen the anticipatory dimension of this budget to accompany all the changes facing europeans, in order to avoid the stagnation of our economy, as the commissioner said, while stimulating competitiveness and sustainable, green and inclusive growth for a society of solidarity.
i would like to be able to assure you with confidence that parliament will commit to adopting this budget if and only if climate finance rises to the level of the commitments made in this multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i would very much like to ensure that the 2020 budget will strengthen the funding of the integration of migrants and asylum seekers and put an end to the union funding of the outsourcing of our immigration policy.
the agenda calls for the debate on the annual strategic report by eleni theocharous and francesc gambús, on behalf of the committee on development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation and achievement of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) (2018/2279(ini)) (a8-0160/2019).
i wanted to say this solemnly to you... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, listen to the youth of the world and of europe, who have become our lifesaving hope when everything is getting worse for the climate.
listen to this conscious youth calling on adults and the powerful to act now for the climate, for species, for a possible future on earth.
the time for climate justice has come.
the energy savings originally claimed are no longer quantifiable and the negative effects of regular change are no longer to be proved.
it is clear that the end of the time changes is a necessity which must be accompanied by real, stable and sustainable coordination.
madam president, energy is essential to the functioning of our businesses, to the lives of individuals and to travel, and is by its very nature one of the main strategic policies of a state.
while we believe that cooperation between member states in the energy field is necessary and desirable, national sovereignty in this highly strategic area is not negotiable.
behind the stated objective of combating climate change and protecting consumers, the commission's ambition is to create a large european electricity market where national logic will have to be overridden by its own will.
the principles of increasing our cross-border trade, of managing our peaks and troughs in electricity consumption in cooperation with our neighbouring countries, of integrating renewable energy produced by consumers or of adapting our means of production to new technologies are, in themselves, positive.
the commission's dogmatic intention is to impose measures by ideology which will kill any form of energy sovereignty and national initiative, both on technical standardization for electrical interconnections and on the management of flows between neighbouring countries.
the commission also makes clear its intention to liberalize the energy market completely.
each of the four texts in this package is a further step towards the construction of the european electricity market and the dispossession of the member states of their energy sovereignty, but also of their diplomatic sovereignty.
here, two visions are opposed: on the one hand, the ultra-liberal vision of the commission and its accomplices who dismissed energy as just one market among many others to be internationalised and opened up to competition; on the other hand, our illiberal view of energy as a public good essential to the functioning of the nation and to be managed at its level, with free cooperation between states.
others feared that the text would end up being a catch-all, where it would no longer be just the consumer who would be affected, but the citizen, the individual in all his aspects, who would use this remedy to ask, for example, a company to compensate him on the pretext that it had contributed to the pollution of the air he breathes.
in this time, we learned that european vehicle manufacturers have violated the eu rules on vehicle pollutant emissions.
we have also introduced more accurate testing for nox emissions with the real—driving emissions (rde) test procedure.
this procedure gives a more realistic picture of actual pollutant emissions on the road, and it also contributes to the effective reduction of these emissions.
before rde, these emissions were on average 700 to 800 mg per km in real driving conditions.
the procedure to measure co2 emissions more accurately has also been modernised, with the adoption of the worldwide harmonised light vehicle test procedure (wltp).
these conformity factors are mere technical requirements that have no bearing on the emissions limits set by the co—legislators.
to sum up, as acknowledged by the european court of auditors in its recent briefing paper on the eu’s response to the dieselgate scandal: ‘the emissions scandal has accelerated many legislative changes to the eu system of vehicle emissions checks’.
millions of european citizens take to the streets every week to demand that we, the policy-makers, act against pollution with the utmost urgency.
the situation is particularly critical for the inhabitants of large european cities who are suffocated by these nitrogen dioxide emissions, but it is not just nitrogen dioxide.
the year 2019 will probably be the worst year on air pollution, but this is not new and there is still no follow-up to the infringement procedures initiated by the commission against states, either by the states or by the commission.
and now we suffer air pollution without action, we leave garbage cars on our roads, we leave consumers confused without repair.
the agenda calls for a debate on the report by mr michał boni, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the labelling of tyres with respect to fuel efficiency and other essential parameters and repealing regulation (ec) no 1222/2009 (com (2018) 0296 c8-0190/2018 2018/0148 (cod)) (a8-0086/2019).
in our amendments we are calling for real abrasion tests, to inform and protect citizens, and for the manufacture of tyres which are less polluting and more energy efficient.
finally, because we cannot ignore what comes from outside, we ask for the traceability of the rubber used and we require that it comes from sustainable forests, free of pesticides that pollute groundwater, for example.
transport is at the crossroads of three pillars: economic development, social cohesion and just ecological transition.
investing in sustainable mobility is a full contribution to our sustainable development goals.
as for the airports which have been the subject of intense discussions in this house, i simply call for common sense: my political family has tabled amendments to allow investment in old airports, on the strict condition that they contribute to improving the environmental balance.
this is a concrete step in the fight against climate change.
finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to act in accordance with our thematic and environmental objectives by supporting the amendments tabled by our group.
the text thus addressed the current economic challenge of consumer protection by giving a clear definition of digital content, guaranteeing consumers that their purchases are in conformity with the contract, regulating online commercial practices, and introducing commercial guarantees of sustainability that should mechanically encourage consumers and producers to consume and produce less, but better.
however, the committee on fisheries wants the court of auditors to present a separate error rate for fisheries from the environmental, rural development and health error rates, and not in an aggregated form.
the agreement reached by parliament and the council is an important achievement and – together with the legislation on heavy-duty vehicles – marks the completion of a comprehensive legislative framework on climate and clean energy for 2030. this has been possible thanks to the excellent work and constructive efforts of the negotiators from both institutions.
it is a major step forward in regulating co2 emissions from cars and vans.
its main elements for new cars: the european union fleet-wide average co2 emissions will have to be 37.5% lower in 2030, compared to 2021, and 31% for new vans.
this new legislation puts the road transport sector on a clear pathway towards clean mobility, and the broader transition to a climate-neutral economy.
the targets agreed, together with the targets agreed for heavy-duty vehicles, will lead to a 24% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from road transport in 2030 compared to 2005. this will help member states to reach their binding targets under the effort sharing regulation and for the european union to deliver its commitments under the paris agreement.
in this context, the battery alliance was launched to create a sustainable and competitive battery value chain in europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bit of a joke: the chairman of the car manufacturers' lobby, mr tavares, has called us, the european legislators, amateurs because we want to reduce co2 emissions from cars in europe.
amateurs, because we hear the young people marching for the climate, who expect us to act responsibly to protect future generations.
transport accounts for 30% of co2 emissions in europe, the majority of which comes from road transport.
here we are setting a reduction of 37.5 per cent for cars and light vehicles, not for tomorrow, but for 2030. anyone who delays the fight against global warming is a climate sceptic.
so i say to mr tavares, if he wants to be on the right side of history, he should invest now to produce low-emission cars as soon as possible because it's good for the climate and it's good for jobs.
on the other hand, there are insufficient commitments on climate, whereas parliament made ambitious proposals for 2050. europe is therefore on a slippery slope, and our member states seem deaf to the urgency.
the situation is critical with regard to single-use plastic waste, most often food, which is flooding the planet, both at sea and on land.
in fact, our earth has become the plastic planet and the ecological disaster is major.
i think we should be ashamed of what we have done to the planet and we should be ashamed of the species that are choking our culture with all the waste.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, plastic pollution of the oceans is a major issue, so we have a duty to be ambitious and i think that the agreement reached between the institutions is a good agreement.
i support the general approach and welcome the ban on oxide-degradable plastics, particularly in view of the pollution they represent, both on land and in the oceans.
i am pleased that the final text reflects the idea i advocated, namely the introduction in the coming years of a standard clearly defining the biodegradability of plastics in the marine environment, based on research and innovation, in order to guarantee their safety.
mr president, there is no need to theorize any further about plastic pollution, just look at the pictures of a whale in thailand, suffocated to death by plastic bags.
so i welcome all of these single-use plastics that will be banned from 2021, because they represent 70 percent of marine pollution.
plastic waste is a threat to biodiversity and is everywhere, including in the fish we eat.
it is now that pollution will be irreversible.
we have created a seventh continent of 80,000 tons of plastic waste, three times the surface of france.
it is about the future of our ecosystems, our biodiversity and the very existence of the human species.
we are voting today on a text warning about the impact of plastic products on the environment and at the same time we are still using plastic straws and bottles in this parliament.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'.
the directive, which mainly revises the parameters, proposes a new method of risk assessment to prevent pollution risks as far in advance as possible.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the climate emergency and in order to implement the paris agreements, it is essential to encourage the development of green finance.
we have a report from oxfam which says that the big french banks have not kept their commitments made at cop 21. it is time to put finance at the service of the energy transition, because it is the future of our industry.
however, we must remain pragmatic and that is why i do not want to have a negative list of activities, which would in principle be excluded from the field of sustainable investment, because we can also provide for investments for improvements in existing technologies.
similarly, it would be a mistake to focus these investments solely on renewable energy at the expense of other low-carbon energy sources.
i am in favour of a more open view of what sustainable investment could be because a too restrictive, too idealistic view would actually lead to a very strong restriction on the labelling of these investments.
mr president, if we are to be consistent in the ecological transition, this dossier is absolutely essential, because the best way to move towards the ecological transition is to direct investment.
it is the most effective tool to ensure this ecological transition.
what i see is that, too often, here and elsewhere, some conservatives and lobbies make big statements in favour of this ecological transition, and when it really comes to putting concrete tools into practice, they back down in the face of the obstacle.
that is why we are disappointed with the outcome of the work of the committee on the environment and the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
we therefore ask you to mobilise to correct the situation and so that, through the vote of this plenary, we can re-establish the idea of categories of activities with a significant negative impact on the environment and re-establish the idea that aid for solid fossil fuels is not possible.
there will be no ecological transition without a social dimension!
unfortunately, it is clear that this roadmap is far from being a response to the health and environmental emergency.
it requires that outside its territory, the union's energy rules apply to gas supply pipelines.
the commission is here again taking the lead in energy and geopolitics at the expense of the states, and this will be the main reason why we oppose this text.
incomplete on sustainable development: we cannot be satisfied with empty admonitions in the face of a country which is one of the biggest polluters on the planet.
moreover, these purely societal arrangements are not the responsibility of employers, whose role is to provide work activities in an acceptable environment and not to impose a compulsory paternalism that they would not want.
i am also pleased that we have managed in these negotiations to preserve the original ambition, which was already in the commission's proposal, to cover the widest possible scope, from the protection of the european union's financial interests to corporate taxation issues and environmental protection.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal.
it will improve banks' lending capacity for financing infrastructure projects and take into account environmental criteria, as well as the need to promote gender equality in management bodies.
perhaps less difficult, but i think this is a step that we should welcome, and we have also made progress on integrating a sustainability mandate.
supervisors, whether in banking, insurance or securities, will have to examine the sustainability of the models implemented by institutions.
in conclusion, i would like to thank once again our rapporteur, roberta metsola, whose work, energy, determination and excellent cooperation have enabled us to make rapid progress.
the agenda calls for a debate on the report by mr bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down performance standards for co2 emissions from new heavy-duty vehicles (com ((2018) 0284 c8-0197/2018 2018/0143 cod)) (a8-0354/2018).
other if we want to meet the needs of the planet and preserve our health, if we want to reduce pollution significantly, we have to take responsibility and put the transport sector on a par with everyone else, like everyone else.
yet these trucks produce about 25% or a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions from road transport in the european union.
if we are ever to meet the cop21 commitments to save the climate and the planet, it is high time to end this imbalance.
with the text we have tabled, we are finally taking a first step towards reducing co2 emissions by 15% by 2025 and 30% by 2030 for lorries.
for the first time, it commits europe to reducing pollution from trucks on our roads and thus improving air quality: a victory!
it shows that when we, the elected officials, listen to the demands, especially those of the youth who are on strike every week to save the climate, when we turn good words into concrete actions, things can move in the right direction.
if we want to preserve the chances of our children to breathe, to live freely, to be happy, to thrive on our beautiful planet, then tomorrow we must vote in favour of this text, because voting for this text is voting for the climate!
i regret the council's lack of ambition, given that co2 emissions have been increasing steadily in the road transport sector in recent years.
this regulation is a step forward in tackling the scourge of air pollution and in meeting our climate objectives, in particular the paris agreement, which aims to halt or at least limit global warming.
europe is taking concrete action against pollution and i am proud that my last speech in plenary underlines this progress.
since the proposal of the commission in june last year, the work has been very intense, both in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and then in the trilogue.
this principle of strategic autonomy is also crucial in many other areas: space, health, energy, food and of course security and defence.
the fact is that the environment is increasingly uncertain at our own borders, that our allies are sometimes unstable, and that we need to do better and strengthen our security.
this partial and provisional agreement on the investeu programme, which is part of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework, is a strong and positive message that the european parliament is proud to send to the council with a view to increasing investment for jobs and sustainable growth in europe, in view of the success of the first investment plan, the juncker plan, from january 2021. this will allow the financing - it has already been said - of local projects in the field of research, sustainable infrastructure, innovation, digitisation, support for smes, which is very important, but it will also provide guarantees that will make it possible to introduce an ethical and sustainable character of finance, which is also important.
this is a key partnership between the european commission, the european investment bank and national and local investment banks to drive forward selected environmental and social projects, in line with our commitments to respect the paris agreement and the united nations sustainable development goals.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the european union must take ownership of sustainable infrastructure and social investment, including cultural and creative activities.
first, the question of calibrating environmental ambitions, which must absolutely live up to our commitments, i.e.
our objective is not to make the lobbies prosper, but to protect the health of citizens... (the president withdrew the floor)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
i do not know what i will defend in the outgoing commission's report, but i am sure that we must welcome the marriage of environmental and financial issues.
we are advocating an ambitious vision for sustainable finance.
the commission's proposal was geared towards the introduction of transparency obligations for actors and assets that were part of the green financial sector: this was a first step against greenwashing, but it risked reinforcing the trend of sustainable finance to lock itself into niches where fund managers would invest marginally to give themselves a greener image without fundamentally changing their funding mode.
on the contrary, we are asking the entire financial sector to publish information on the environmental impact of its investments, and particularly large companies, which have the most significant impact.
to identify the environmental impact of their choices and to integrate this information into their decision-making process.
we found in your draft several of our proposals: the climate bank, in particular carbon neutrality, the question of the carbon tax and the minimum wage, all important elements for a number of political groups, especially among the pro-europeanists in this house.
those who tell us every day that the climate emergency is the most important are right.
it is the first time that we have had such proposals, or at least such a commitment to the environment, in this house.
we do not want to suffer any more from the imbalances that are causing the ecological crisis and it is to meet this challenge that europe, thank you for saying so this morning, must finally impose a carbon levy on all the countries that export to the european union.
what will be your legitimacy in dealing with the climate crisis and the inequality crisis?
yet money for our public services, like for the ecological transition, is there.
also, your green deal is welcome, regardless of whether the greens vote for you, your green deal is important for the future, for our children, for sustainability.
president von der leyen, you have given a very high priority to climate issues in your programme and you have also been asked for concrete measures, means and solutions in this debate.
i would therefore like to draw attention to the climate and, in particular, to the forests, which are of course inextricably linked.
it is very important that you are working towards a carbon-free europe and that you are going to deliver on your energy and climate strategy.
it is very important to take care of the carbon sequestration of forests, and this is best done through active forest management and forestry rather than by limiting the use of wood.
i would like to hear how you would ensure that the use of wood in europe, with its growing forest resources, is seen as a solution and not a problem in combating climate change.
the one that mattered most in the european elections was climate change and i welcome your practical approach to that.
the one thing i would ask you is to ensure that, as we move to a low carbon economy, no one is left behind.
secondly, the protection of the climate.
yes, we want to eat healthy food, and we're glad that you said that the costs of climate protection should be spread fairly.
i hope that you will fight and give the necessary funds to the regions of energy and industrial transition, because there are hundreds of thousands of families, hundreds of thousands of children, hundreds of thousands of mothers who will be affected, if the regions in industrial and energy transition do not have the necessary support and that this happens now.
if we cannot find a bold fix for our environment and for our climate now, we never will.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, you set a very ambitious target for europe: halve our co2 emissions by 2030, and you are absolutely right, it is a matter of life and death.
but to win the climate battle, the nerve of the war is money.
but we need to go further: we need to set aside a climate budget of 1000 billion every year to finance a real marshall plan for africa, to finance a real research programme and to help all the families, all the small businesses in europe to finance the transition.
so if we really want to win the climate battle, and i think you do, my question is simple: can the next multiannual framework deliver an extra budget of one trillion a year?
50%, is that too much to save the climate?
the only thing ursula von der leyen promises us is a 'more sustainable approach to search and rescue'.
mr president, commissioner, it is true that air pollution is an invisible killer and remains the leading environmental cause of premature mortality in the european union.
the european environment agency reports, as has been said here, more than 422,000 premature deaths each year due to these fine particles.
this implies radical measures, including the end of european co-financing of polluting and climate-damaging road infrastructure projects, the financing of structuring public transport projects, the financing of an ecological conversion plan for polluting industry, and assistance and support to reduce the car's place in the city.
mr president, commissioner, as has already been said here, the impact of air pollution on health is of enormous magnitude.
the sulphur oxide emissions on the portuguese coast were 88 times higher than the emissions from cars driving in portugal, which is already very worrying.
lisbon is also the only european capital with an airport within the city, exposing the population to the associated emissions.
mr president, the european elections have shown that the climate, the environment and health are major concerns for our citizens.
we see the health effects of air pollution every day, with an increase in allergies, respiratory diseases, especially in children, and cardiovascular risks.
as you recalled, the european union has already acted by legislating, in particular recently, on vehicle emissions and the energy performance of buildings.
air pollution levels are still too high, legislation is still not being applied perfectly by the member states, and the encouragement of behavioural change is not being sufficiently accompanied.
the energy crisis, particularly in the field of heating, and the problem of air conditioning are key issues in this respect.
we are facing realities today that cannot be ignored: the increase in the global population, the limitation or depletion of natural resources in some places, but above all climate change requires us to act immediately.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when innovation and non-gmo plant breeding are the only way to reduce the environmental impact of the agricultural sector, we cannot accept the decision of the european patent office.
we cannot allow the availability of plant material to be limited or the capacity of our research laboratories to be compromised, with serious repercussions for the sustainability of our agriculture and the health of all european citizens.
that is why, commissioner, we ask you to intervene as soon as possible and to submit the necessary observations to prevent this decision from going against the wishes, expressed on several occasions by the co-legislators, and to restore the necessary legal certainty so that agriculture can become an increasingly important player in the fight against climate change and be able to respond, also through the use of new techniques of varietal improvement, in an ambitious way to the demands of millions of citizens.
free access to seeds is also a key element in growing new varieties that are better able to meet the challenges of climate change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the french association, futures generations, which is recognized by the ministry of the environment, stated that the dangers of pesticides in europe were underestimated.
mr president, the current un secretary-general, antónio guterres, said last month that in the fight against climate change, fine words are not enough.
what about the european union, which is going to promote an agricultural, health and environmental disaster by signing a trade treaty with mercosur.
they claim to care about climate change, but they don't question the trade that fuels it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, next week, when some of us will be at the united nations to mobilise for climate action and the sustainable development goals, at the same time, in monaco, climate experts will be unveiling the special report 'ocean and cryosphere'.
this report, which we asked for four years ago, with my friends from the ocean and climate platform, is very alarming.
yet for years, climate negotiations ignored its vital role in balancing the climate and the essential services it provides to humanity.
it absorbs a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions.
but good ocean health must be one of the goals of the climate negotiations, especially since it is also part of the solution.
we need to finance the restoration of marine and coastal ecosystems, reduce emissions from shipping, develop marine energy without destroying habitats, etc.
this is a challenge we can take on and it awaits the future vice-president in charge of the green blue deal and the future commissioner for the environment and oceans and i welcome this title.
but, commissioner, your communication fails to mention the crucial role of cities in the fight against climate change, whereas half the world's population lives in them.
buildings that consume too much energy, domestic heating systems that are often outdated, congested roads, too few green spaces... globally, cities produce more than 60% of greenhouse gas emissions.
however, the low inflation environment has become a persistent feature within the most advanced economies since the post-crisis period and monetary policy alone is not able to change that.
on the side of structural reforms, we need to use all levers to facilitate the transformation which europe’s businesses and employees will need to embark on in the coming years amid challenges like climate change, the digital age and global and political uncertainty.
as regards fiscal policies, within the limits of fiscal sustainability, fiscal policy can provide a boost to domestic demand and investment.
instead, we have a situation where the eurozone countries are not doing their job, both in those countries which are struggling with economic problems, which are not making good progress with reforms, with social justice reforms which are at the same time boosting the economy, and also in the surplus countries which are currently reducing their debt instead of making room for economic development, especially in the sense of an ecological and social transformation of our economy.
because money is political and has nothing neutral about climate or inequality.
when you talk to them about climate or reducing inequality, they give you the same answer: price stability.
is it prepared to lend directly to the states to finance the ecological transition?
instead, let's choose a monetary policy that serves ecological and social transformation, an ecb that ensures that money reinvested in the real economy stops funding polluting activities, and one that takes on the responsibility of regulating the market to promote green assets.
she also indicated that the focus of her work as head of the ecb would be on climate risk, which would be a macroeconomic priority for the ecb.
it is therefore up to us to work in a collective and constructive spirit in the economic, social and ecological interests of our fellow citizens and our companies.
so those policies have to continue, of course, offsetting those negative effects that exist: tackling the housing bubble through the macroeconomic guidelines and also 'how not' stopping buying carbon-related assets, which in recent years have not helped the fight against climate change.
its stated intention to make climate change a priority for the ecb is a fundamental contradiction with the european union's global free trade policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the amazon rainforest is burning, causing the ecological catastrophe we all know.
there is no doubt that ecology and the environment are too serious and too important for the future of the planet to be used for domestic political maneuvering.
in this respect, a well-ordered charity starting with oneself, we would like president macron to put an end to the dismantling of the onf, to take care of the waste treatment on réunion island, to take care of the rising sea levels in mayotte, to take care of the radioactive risk posed by the us dome in the marshall islands which threatens our compatriots in french polynesia, to take more care of the environment of our compatriots in french guiana by preserving the french part of the amazon as best as possible, and finally to take care of the environmental disaster of sargassum algae in martinique and guadeloupe.
rather than scapegoating trade agreements, as done by mr jadot, who has already left after having done his show, we should use this sense of urgency to advance the debate on how to better leverage trade policy to export our environmental standards and fight climate change on a global scale.
the prospect of the eu-mercosur association agreement is a unique opportunity to hold brazil to its commitments under the paris climate agreement, such as to restore and reforest 12 million hectares and to attain zero illegal deforestation by 2030, as already stated by my colleague, peter liese.
for example, through plurilateral agreements on trade in environmental goods, it now lies in our hands to work on the appropriate flanking measures, such as monitoring and certification schemes.
the world's forests play a very crucial role for the future, for the climate, for our ability to transition to a sustainable future.
we know that one lung is the forest, with its growing trees, absorbing and taking up carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and thus playing a very crucial role in our ability to meet the temperature targets of the paris agreement.
this forest absorbs two billion tons of carbon dioxide a year.
that's five percent of the world's total emissions.
i ask us to use all the levers available so that in the amazon we have a strategy and a requirement to respect, of course, the objectives of sustainable development, the fragility of biodiversity, the strength of the local population and their ancestral cultures and, of course, the commitments made in the paris agreements.
if you are looking at preventing deforestation, in the current mercosur trade deal, you will only find it somewhere down the line in the trade and sustainable development chapter.
this shows you that this trade deal has totally bizarre priorities: more trade and when it’s about sustainability, promoting and encouraging.
the first of the causes is mr. bolsonaro's criminal policy of dismantling environmental agencies, destroying the habitats of indigenous peoples and using more and more toxic pesticides.
it is a climate-killing text.
former carbon sinks, these forests are becoming emitters by releasing into the atmosphere the co2 they have sequestered for centuries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amazon is burning and the fires that are ravaging it are our last barricade against climate change.
the european union must not only make a strong case, but also impose sustainable forest management through binding clauses in line with the paris climate agreements.
we must also put in place the ecological barrier that we defended during the european campaign and that president von der leyen has committed herself to, and we welcome this.
we must protect our consumers, support our industries, support our farmers, protect the environment from polluting foreign producers.
our economy would also be hit hard in an already difficult environment and i would draw your attention in particular to the significant cost of a no-deal exit for countries close to the british isles.
we are unequally protected against environmental carcinogens, unequally informed about risk behaviours such as smoking, poor diet and lack of physical activity.
so, in line with the sustainable development goals, in line with the global appeal of the director-general of who, dr tedros, in line with our values and commitments for global health, commissioner, madam minister, we must urgently integrate into this european plan an 'external action' component, because we cannot accept that women die of a disease that can be prevented and cured, neither in europe nor in the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i spoke at the last environment committee on the shortage of medicines in europe.
in croatia, 344 people per 100,000 population died of cancer in 2016, compared to the european average of 262 and the us average of 164. this alone speaks volumes about the need for greater investment, which will not be possible without strengthening the entrepreneurial climate and the private sector and cuts in some other parts of the burgeoning public sector.
the council wants the eu budget to continue to focus on our common priorities: strengthening the european economy, boosting its competitiveness, ensuring sufficient funding for migration and the protection of our external borders, and tackling environmental challenges and climate change.
those are europe’s satellite navigation systems, egnos and galileo, the energy strand of the connecting europe facility, the european defence industrial development programme, the large infrastructure projects, copernicus and iter, erasmus plus – which i know is one of the programmes we all cherish most – the life programme for the environment and climate action, the union civil protection mechanism, and the european public prosecutor’s office, for example.
we consider it important that the council, parliament and the commission share the same priorities in principle: employment, stabilising growth, strengthening our competitiveness, innovation, possible measures for climate protection at european level, which, in addition to emission reduction pathways, in addition to standard setting, also involve investment, and strengthening our internal and external security.
if we want to emphasize that we are focusing on climate issues, on digitisation issues, on artificial intelligence, on cancer prevention, on fighting cancer, on fighting the most serious diseases and so on, if we want to emphasize that, then the answer really cannot be: we then cut the commission's proposal.
if we want to be at the forefront, if we want to not only be a role model, but also show that we are bringing jobs and climate together in a meaningful way, economic competitiveness, and at the same time giving answers to climate issues, then innovation and research is the answer, then focusing in that area is the answer.
i am prepared, as the commissioner has said, to work with you to solve as many problems as possible in advance, not because we are stubborn, but because we believe that we want more for the future of the european union and what european added value is in the field of climate, in the field of development aid, in the field of future technologies; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
we talked about fighting climate change and it was a priority, but we didn't have that sense of urgency.
we committed to investing 20 percent, to spending 20 percent of the budget on fighting climate change.
we must continue to provide financial aid to the countries which continue to receive refugees, and of course we have not only the possibility but also the obligation to at least meet that 20% target in the fight against climate change, 20% which is clearly already out of date.
because if we want to make a leap on the social pillar, on environmental policy, if we don't want to miss the train of digitization or if we want to make a just transition so that the usual ones don't pay, we have to start now.
four major accents: investing in innovation, sustainable development, protection of citizens and security.
i am thinking of digitisation, innovation, technological development, integration of climate policy in all sectors and special attention to improving the digital skills of young people.
the climate objective will not be met.
it cuts research, it cuts climate programmes, it does not help small and mediumsized enterprises and it cuts programmes for them.
in europe too, climate change is now causing thousands of families to weep and to see their lives shattered.
if we want to avoid climate chaos, we know what we have to do: we have to insulate all our homes, all our factories, we have to develop public transport, renewables, change our agricultural model.
the budget we have today is only 0.6 billion more than the climate budget.
if we take inflation into account, the climate budget is down 1.3%.
i hate to say it, but the climate budget is going down 1.3%.
there are about 3.4 billion to strengthen our action for inclusion, for youth employment, for the reception of refugees, for the climate.
it is not enough, for example, to say that we want a climate bank.
everyone, now, agrees on the climate bank.
my friends, it's time to declare war on climate change, it's time to stop the small steps.
at the end of 2013, the european institutions committed to allocating 20 percent of spending to climate protection.
mr secretary of state, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we take note of the council's position and its annual quest for more savings, which is in total contradiction to the climate ambition of the finnish presidency.
this is how we will achieve the objectives of climate change, of combating youth unemployment, of cohesion, of innovation, of education.
can the climate finally become a priority in this european budget?
when we vote on the multiannual budget, parliament will have to mobilise the funds so that the next cap takes the issue of climate change into its own hands.
my first point is to remind you that there are some 3.5 million volunteer firefighters in the european union and i would like to commend them for their commitment to serving all, as my colleagues have done, at a time when climate change is unfortunately leading to more and more natural disasters.
the european development bank should take these specificities into account and shape its financing policy for energy projects accordingly.
each member state has different possibilities, both because of its geographical location and its traditions, and as a result the energy structure is different.
we cannot give up gas, which is a lower-carbon energy source, just as we cannot give up clean nuclear energy.
please note that the design of the energy mix is a national competence.
if you want to stop climate change, you have to invest, and you have to invest a lot.
and i think it is appropriate to say that the european investment bank should become a green bank, and in doing so play a central role in a sustainable investment strategy for the eu.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i think it is a good one.
mr president, so what does the exciting idea of turning the eib into a climate bank mean in practice?
we need to rapidly increase funding for activities that are paris aligned, such as large—scale home insulation programmes, electrification of services currently provided by fossil fuels and improvement of low—carbon infrastructure, but we also need climate transition loans for projects that can provide evidence that they are committed to decarbonisation.
the sustainability transition will be marked by trial and error and learning by doing, so it’s important that the bank relaxes its normal low—risk approach and makes loans for activities where financial returns are lower or may be volatile, but where climate impact is guaranteed.
finally, the bank can work to ensure that the new round of european central bank (ecb) asset purchases ensures a massive inflow of money into sustainability sectors and businesses.
by issuing green bonds and especially by bundling small and medium-sized enterprise (sme) loans and community projects into these bonds, the eib could facilitate the use of quantitative easing (qe) money to fund small-scale community initiatives in response to the climate crisis.
mr president, we are now becoming more and more aware of our environmental obligations, both as politicians and as citizens.
the eib, through its financial support instrument, must therefore promote projects and actions which not only protect the environment but also create wealth, particularly through our industries.
now these industries can be used as a vehicle for investment to move away from coal, which is ecological nonsense.
given the social emergency, the environmental emergency and the state of the democratic debate, it seems to me urgent not to give in to lobbying and industry pressure.
we cannot green energy policy on the one hand and not green transport policy on the other and continue to support the construction of, for example, airports.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague bas eickhout has said, we welcome the european investment bank's desire to become perhaps the first european institution to stop investing in fossil fuels and become the climate bank.
however, the decision to be taken on 15 october will not lead us to the climate bank we are calling for, because 15 to 20 per cent of the eib's portfolio still contains investment projects in polluting transport.
when will you stop funding the banks that are helping to destroy the climate?
when will we ban shell, bp, exxon mobil, chevron or total from our institutions, our politicians or our climate summits?
democracy, human rights and climate protection are at stake.
i didn’t expect from the beginning that i would get support from everybody, but the overall feeling here in this parliament seems to be that we better take climate change issues seriously, and this is exactly what we are going to do.
sustainable finance is one of the key issues here because, as i said before, we will never achieve the sustainable development goals nor the climate goals without mobilising private money.
this is why we put a lot of emphasis on the sustainable finance issue and the activities of the european commission to arrive at taxonomy in this context.
it’s clear that we have said paris alignment, so the climate must be in everything we do.
we must not undermine our climate objectives by financing 50% green and the rest dirty.
so we also have other issues and i’ll tell you: the european union has huge climate challenges, but a few other challenges as well.
and then, of course, the climate issue.
the climate issue is well spelled out, but the devil is in the detail as soon as we get to the regions where it’s going to be really, really difficult, and it’s better to get your people in these regions on board on this, and therefore we have to be very attentive there.
we have many problems also in the context of climate policies where the risk situation is so difficult that the commercial markets will not service that and, therefore, we are so happy about the cooperation with the european commission and the european parliament and the council – because only with the risk coverage by eu guarantees we can serve it.
we have to be together to solve and to tackle climate change.
the development of renewable energy represents a key opportunity for the european economy, to create quality employment and to ensure a sustainable future for the new generations.
i therefore appreciate that the european investment bank (eib) intends to place decarbonisation of the energy sector and the development of renewable and green sources at the heart of its climate strategy and lending policy, in line with the un sustainable development goals and the paris agreement.
it is also good that this strategy, in a balanced and fair manner, provides for measures to support energy conversion such as the energy transition package: in a strategic sector such as energy, innovation and sustainability cannot be separated from the maintenance of energy security and the protection of the social dimension linked to it.
finally, i think it is important that the eib pays attention to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and to the development of small-scale and widespread green energy projects.
it is necessary to remove the obstacles that smes still face in achieving their energy efficiency, due to the fragmented nature of investments and limited access to financing instruments in this area.
i am in favour of putting european environmental and social standards on the market, which are the best guarantee for our products in the eyes of consumers.
the next framework will also have to address climate change and preserve biodiversity.
on this issue, president-elect ursula von der leyen's commitment, with the launch of a green deal and the introduction of a carbon tax at borders, among others, is encouraging.
we want to maintain the cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy, fisheries, traditional policies and at the same time increase and strengthen research, innovation, climate support, support for young people, erasmus+, which the council also says are its priorities.
we also took a very clear position, saying that the european budget cannot depend almost exclusively on contributions from the member states and that therefore a new financing system based on the internal market, fair taxation and the fight against climate change must be established.
the first is that this parliament confirms what the previous parliament already approved in 2018. the second is that the fight against the climate emergency needs a greater commitment than we had last year.
mr president, our choices in the coming decade will determine the climate.
this is a crucial question if we are to save the climate.
in this spirit, we will defend the creation of taxes on financial transactions, on kerosene and on carbon, because the status quo is no longer possible.
that is why defence policy must be a joint effort, but also why we must be concerned about research, science, innovation, climate change, digitalisation.
dear friends, to win the climate battle, the european commission tells us that between 175 and 290 billion euros are missing every year.
how can we win the climate battle if the eu budget does not increase?
if we are to win the battle for climate and jobs, parliament must indeed adopt this resolution and give itself the means to have a much more ambitious budget.
we owe it to our citizens to provide predictability on the way the union will respond to modern challenges, in particular in areas such as digital, climate action, border management and defence.
i’d like just to list innovations, climate change, investment, sustainable agriculture, cohesion and last, but not least, the rule of law and respect for our common values.
the committee also calls on the commission to ensure that the new multiannual budget corresponds to the new environmental protection objectives, by allocating funds to ensure a fair transition to a zero-carbon economy, so that there are no disadvantaged areas or regions.
it is the duty of all european institutions, but first and foremost it is our responsibility, the ep, to respond to these expectations of greater safety, efficiency, sustainability, jobs and a prosperous future for europe.
it is crystal clear that we need to step up investment in education, training and skills in order to properly accompany our people through these changing times, in order to harness productivity—enhancing technologies and also in order to ensure a just transition to a climate—neutral economy.
moreover, starting from the new cycle, the semester will be refocussed to integrate the united nations’ sustainable development goals in line with the semester’s legal basis.
as you all very well know, implementing the pillar principles on the ground, as well as pursuing the sustainable development goals, is a joint endeavour which will be pursued both at the national and european level.
we know that our work is going to change at a rapid pace, not just because of new technologies and economic developments, but also because of the transition that's required because of climate change.
there are insinuations, we're fueling this cold war climate.
your record on climate change, mr juncker, is a real denial.
and of that 3 billion, almost 2 billion will go to reinforce the fight against climate change, which shows a clear commitment and commitment of this institution to what represents one of the greatest challenges we face.
we have strengthened all budget lines that relate to climate change, from supporting infrastructure projects needed to reach a decarbonisation target to boosting research into future-oriented technologies.
as i said, our top priority has been to give that impetus to programmes dealing with climate change, but it has obviously not been the only one.
and we must continue to provide the necessary means for the european external action service, which is not only responsible for the european union acting in a much more coherent way, but also has as its objectives the consolidation of peace in the world, the fight against climate change or development and humanitarian aid policies.
first, we want to tackle the climate issue aggressively and with clear action.
we also want to create new types of jobs, to be competitive in this world and not simply depend on others or to see things develop in ways that we may not want from an environmental, economic or social point of view.
and development aid is not just about humanitarian aid, and it's not just about humanitarian aspects, but it's also about climate and environmental aspects and the aspect that people want to have some perspective in their home countries to survive.
this means that there is also a clear focus on the environment and the climate.
at the heart of these priorities are growth, employment and innovation, the need to rise to the climate challenge, to tackle the key areas of migration and security, and to help young people invest in their future.
we are witnessing a number of climate challenges, disruptions in trade patterns, economic uncertainties, international tensions and technological changes.
first: growth for jobs and employment and for the eu's competitiveness, strengthening the protection of our climate and environmental policy, promoting young people and managing migration with respect for human dignity.
i would now like to say that i am very happy to be in this environment and i am ready to have a real discussion with you in the coming weeks on the usefulness of spending more or cutting back on programmes and projects.
– mr president, when it comes to international trade, the implementation of trade agreements is key, and that goes in particular for the sustainable development chapter within the trade agreements.
when we think about these commitments, it’s about eradication of child labour, freedom of association, fighting climate change, commitments on gender equality and, of course, human rights.
and let’s not forget that civil society is also key in the implementation of this trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapter, and enforcing these domestic advisory groups is also very important.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal.
madam president, minister, commissioner, it has not escaped your attention that the european union committed itself to spending 20% of its budget on climate, years and years ago.
we hear everywhere that there is a climate emergency, that young people are mobilizing in the streets.
that is why the european parliament is in favour of asking for an extra €2 billion for the climate in this budget, so that we can get as close as possible to the commitment we made.
when we look at the climate emergency, when we look at the mobilisation of young people, i would be really disappointed if the commission and the council did not listen to this voice, if they did not listen to the voice of parliament, and if we had to fight for the extra €2 billion for the climate, which should be taken for granted in the context we know.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
– madam president, as chair of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i would like to express my support for the compromise package, which includes many of the priorities brought forward by our committee.
mr president, commissioner, as regards the committee on fisheries, we know that we want the necessary measures for the fisheries sector to be sustainable in the next 2020 budget.
we therefore believe that there must be a balance between environmental priorities, the viability of the fisheries sector and the livelihoods of coastal communities.
to enable better assessment of fish stocks and to allow a study of the impact of climate change and also pollution on these stocks.
the partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries policy and, more generally, the external dimension of fisheries policy need to be taken into account in order to have adequate budgetary provisions for 2020. finally, a note only for the european aquaculture sector whose good performance can be key to reducing the union's dependence on imports of fishery products.
even with a tax of only 5% on average, and without affecting small businesses, we could have 100 billion more budget to save the climate and to create massive jobs throughout our territories.
while the european union had set itself the objective of allocating 20% of its budget to climate protection between 2014 and 2020, the council, for the last year, is cutting the funding needed to achieve this target.
every year, the states assign europe great responsibilities, which must enable us to combat climate change, develop a knowledge-based economy, strengthen the competitiveness of our companies or help our young people.
the council is refraining from supporting climate-related expenditure, cutting research, reducing aid for access to finance for smes, and striking a blow against the programme to improve youth employment.
it's poison to the environment because how dare you say there's not enough money for the climate emergency, when tax havens are full of it?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when faced with the climate emergency, i always have this image in mind: we are like the sailor who sees the storm coming and does not lower his sail.
many countries have set themselves the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. the president of the future commission has made this her priority.
many solutions can be implemented immediately, such as reducing the speed of ships (2 knots slower, 20% less emissions) or better energy management of public buildings, which are often overheated and over-air conditioned.
greenhouse gas emissions must fall dramatically from today if global warming is to be kept to 1.5 degrees by the end of the century.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all in agreement on the declaration of an ecological emergency, but we are less so when it comes to the measures to be taken and their effectiveness.
the ecological priority is, on the one hand, to identify the exponential increase in world population as a major cause of the ecological drama and, on the other hand, to re-establish borders, to de-globalise trade and human flows and to relocate our production.
only through local and national cooperation, with concrete objectives and the right diagnostics, can we meet the ecological challenges.
the awareness of the climate and ecological emergency has unfortunately allowed a moral guarantee to be given to political coups d'état and to a hostage-taking of european nations.
the response has been fiscal, to better puncture the people, and moral, to better impose mass immigration and the so-called climate refugees.
it is the entire political, ideological and economic software that needs to be reformed to respond to this obvious health, environmental and moral emergency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time now, the speeches on the climate emergency have been one after the other and one after the other.
my dear colleagues, when it comes to voting for another cap, for trade agreements or for environmentally friendly energy projects, there is, strangely enough, no urgency.
and it was to put an end to this hypocrisy that i filed a complaint against the french state for climate inaction.
yes, let's declare a state of climate emergency.
if there is a golden rule for the budget, there must also be a golden rule for the climate.
rather than a debate, the climate emergency must become an imperative for action, and this imperative will also be social because ecology is social.
madam president, cities are responsible for almost 70% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
they therefore have a strategic role to play in the fight against global warming.
commissioner, i am adamant that we cannot talk about the climate emergency without talking about cities.
the metropolises are suffocating and the city dwellers are suffering from pollution, congestion, overcrowding and lack of green space.
they are a real focus of the problems that are causing global warming.
it is an illusion to think that what drove us into a wall in 2008 will save us from anything today, let alone from climate change.
a green new deal is a social project which, through a massive investment plan in the thermal renovation of buildings in low-tech, not high-tech, green infrastructure, renewable energy, can allow us to both save ourselves from climate change, create 10 million jobs, eradicate environmental poverty and finally create a european industrial policy.
for the 50 to 100 million energy insecure people on this continent, for those who are already losing their jobs today, for climate refugees, let us rise to the occasion, let us be ambitious in this parliament.
mr president, the un general assembly declaration on universal health coverage recognises the major impact of environmental conditions on human health.
air pollution is responsible for 400 000 premature deaths a year in europe and many cancers.
global warming is fuelling the proliferation of mosquito-borne infections.
the fight against climate change is therefore an integral part of universal health coverage.
the main objective of the green new deal must ultimately remain human health, and more generally global health, which is the virtuous circle linking human health, animal health and environmental health.
in our fight against global warming, we must prioritize educating citizens to avoid generating new health inequalities that prey on the most vulnerable.
finally, the inextricable link between environment and health should lead us to evaluate environmental policies using criteria of healthy life expectancy.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam minister, today i would like to draw your attention in particular to the exposure of children to climate change, a major aspect to be taken into account in the protection of children's rights.
according to unicef, 99% of climate change-related deaths occur in developing countries, and children account for 80% of these deaths.
according to unicef, the destabilisation of our climate could cause an additional 250,000 child deaths by 2100. this is intolerable.
children everywhere are the most affected by pollution, because their bodies are the most vulnerable.
this is why europe must put the child at the heart of its environmental strategies.
we must take action against climate change and guarantee children, all children, a right to essential resources: clean air, clean water, sufficient, balanced and unpolluted food.
finally, we need to invest heavily in education, a key factor in the fight against climate change, and adopt new practices.
mr president, we cannot allow europe to be invaded by cheap steel produced without respect for social and environmental standards, which do not comply with the paris agreement.
we really need to act on these unfinished products, we need to put an end to them by taking new measures such as the carbon tax at the borders, which will support the european steel industry, which is making great efforts in the framework of the green deal: circular carbon energy, carbon capture and storage and even the production of iron from decarbonised hydrogen.
this can go very fast or slower depending on different bodies and obviously also depending on the overall environment, because what i want to stress here is this – and i said it also in the beginning – sanctions, and the framework for introducing sanctions, is an instrument to put pressure and to try and provoke a change.
it has all the potential to continue on a path of democracy, sustainable development and social inclusion.
a national dialogue for peace and reconciliation sponsored by the institutions should be promoted and plans and strategies that encourage sustainable, inclusive and inclusive development in the country should be accelerated.
how many people need to freeze to death or drown in the mediterranean before we actually come to a sustainable solution for the future?
the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the protection of the environment, which is to be implemented by the end of the year.
i know that the proposal has not yet been approved, that it is not a proposal of the polish government, but i firmly believe that they are receiving a clear signal from our environment that we consider this subject to be necessary in order to preserve the european value of access to a full-fledged education system.
it is also one of the main obstacles to the empowerment of women and girls and to the achievement of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, according to the united nations, the world reached a new record in greenhouse gas emissions in 2018. this is another missed opportunity, because scientists tell us that these emissions will have to decrease from 2020 onwards if we are to meet the paris agreements and limit the temperature rise to 1.5 degrees.
it is time for our parliament to declare the obvious: we are in a climate and environmental emergency.
there is so much to do: let's plan the energy transition to reach 100% renewable energy by 2050; let's turn the page on free trade by rejecting new trade agreements and instead promoting the economic relocation of activities; radically change the common agricultural policy to build the organic agriculture of tomorrow; let's put in place the green rule instead of the gold rule so that every decision we make now is made in the light of the climate emergency.
the cop will also have to reassess its climate ambition in the face of the failure to meet commitments in asia and africa, two regions that pollute far more than we do.
europe's blindness is most clearly manifested in the globalist vision of un experts and ngos, in the disregard of the only possible path, namely local and national cooperation, in the instrumentalisation of climate diplomacy for the purpose of interference against the sovereignty of states and in the response to the deadly danger of climate migrations announced against the background of environmental catastrophism.
in the face of this extraordinary challenge of climate change, our strength will therefore be our ability to act collectively.
the ambition of the green deal, the eib's first steps towards a european climate bank, the conclusions of the ocean council last week and this resolution are proof that we can converge our ideas to meet this challenge, beyond our differences.
i am particularly pleased that we have been able to highlight in this resolution the consequences for the ocean and, at the same time, the fundamental role it plays in the balance of the climate.
the ocean is also part of the solution, and this will be one of the topics of the blue cop, as next week the chilean president will launch a platform of 'ocean solutions', namely, the restoration of marine and coastal ecosystems, the development of renewable marine energy and the design of green boats.
so let us declare a climate and environmental emergency, but let it not be, as mr canfin said earlier, just a symbol.
we need concrete, ambitious and immediate climate action.
i urge you: let's vote for a climate and environmental emergency, but let's commit ourselves with action.
mr president, on 13 november, the lancet published an article entitled 'counting down, health and climate change: ensuring that the health of the child born today is not determined by climate change'.
climate change is an emergency, a health emergency, an absolute health emergency.
already in africa, people are suffering and dying from the health consequences of global warming.
this is the case in some of the texts that are proposed to us about the climate crisis.
let us take a moment to reflect on the question of energy, particularly nuclear energy, which we are asked to condemn strongly as an energy that does not contribute to solving the climate problems.
it is very clear, ladies and gentlemen, that if we are to cope with the situation we are in today, we must - as the ipcc itself explains - make do with all the resources available that do not produce carbon, and nuclear energy is one of them.
of course, in the long run, the security issues raised by this energy pose immense problems.
but today, it would be foolish to dig our own grave by organising the deconstruction of a sector that can help us to meet, in the immediate future, the climate challenge that awaits us.
finally, we must also use the single market we have built intelligently to make the fight for the restoration of the balance of the climate prevail.
i believe that this is the meaning of the work we have to do in the economic field and also in the ecological challenge.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, according to an ipcc report, 300 million people will be affected by rising sea levels over the next 30 years as a result of global warming and melting ice.
this climate and ecological catastrophe portends future disasters in our landscapes and ecosystems, with potentially disastrous economic, human and social consequences.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, this friday, shortly before the next european council, young people will take to the streets again and take out their placards with the words: 'change the system, not the climate'.
the carbon neutrality target europe has set itself will not solve everything, as it is based on several risky biases.
first, we are not in control of the absorption capacity of natural carbon sinks, as the terrible tragedies of the amazon forest have reminded us.
finally, it would be hypocritical to shift our greenhouse gas emissions outside europe, which of course would not change the global climate change equation.
this is the case for france, which is doubling its carbon footprint.
according to the european environment agency, the measures currently in place in the member states guarantee a reduction of only 30% in greenhouse gas emissions, compared with a target of 55% set by our parliament.
the announcement of a plan to renovate buildings to use energy is a good thing, as is the decision by the european investment bank to stop financing fossil fuels, contrary to what the far right thinks, which in this case is clearly never on the side of the people and the planet.
now we must go further and faster, reorient the common agricultural policy, hold the multinationals responsible for deforestation and pollution with impunity, and reject climate-destroying free trade agreements.
the european parliament must play its full part in these strategic decisions and in the development of a credible financing plan for the ecological transition; this is one of the key issues of the multiannual financial framework on the council's agenda, namely that we must empower ourselves to fight not only climate change but also inequalities.
political priorities must be set: climate and solidarity rather than the dangerous and priceless adventure of a europe of defence.
the solution is simple: go for the money where it is, by creating new taxes on the ecological and social balance of imported products, on financial transactions, but also on large multinational companies that do not pay their fair share of taxes.
in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, some tentative progress has been made in the 2020 climate budget, because parliament has refused to go to bed directly with the council.
we must be truly ambitious in the negotiations under way so that the next multiannual financial framework is finally up to the environmental and social challenges of the century.
madam president, the european council of 12 and 13 december is scheduled to deal mainly with two issues: climate change and the multiannual financial framework.
we are particularly concerned about the dogmatic approach to the climate issue.
we see, with total incomprehension, the pursuit of two irreconcilable objectives: on the one hand, climate neutrality projected for 2050, and on the other, a race to globalisation with the multiplication of mega-free trade agreements (ceta, mercosur, agreements with japan, vietnam and, tomorrow, new zealand and australia).
as long as the cost of carbon emitted to transport products imported from the other side of the planet is not included in the price, the efforts to achieve climate neutrality on our continent will be in vain and will be another illusion.
i'm not even talking about the social and environmental conditions under which roses are grown in kenya: labor exploitation, overuse of pesticides, drying up of the soil.
the carbon cost of importing this rose is nowhere to be found.
to claim climate neutrality while turning a blind eye to such consequences is to commit a lie in the service of the globalist ideology.
indeed, the rare earths all over the planet are being plundered by china to produce batteries that we will use; the recycling of these batteries is not organised, which leads to over-pollution; the components are imported in bulk using giant container ships, the largest source of carbon pollution, which is still unregulated.
you antagonize generations with a disaster narrative that pits the young against the old, but you do not address the real causes of the increase in carbon production, which is globalization.
to respond to this, the council will have to make efforts to reduce short distribution circuits, promote local production, produce as close as possible to what we consume and not encourage a leap forward, with unbridled free trade, a source of increasing pollution.
first, ambitions are easily shared; these include the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy, the union's flagship programmes such as erasmus or horizon 2020 for research, new challenges in defence, migration, innovation, security and digital, respect for the rule of law and, of course, the challenge of climate change.
we are making a major shift over the coming year towards investment in areas where the eu adds value, such as research and development and energy infrastructure.
we must choose a budget that does take into account in an explicit, clear and penetrating way the needs that our citizens are expressing, a budget that once again, the points where europe can absolutely add value compared to the national level commitment to innovation, competitiveness, climate, infrastructure, security and migration management.
we have been able to increase the budget lines dealing with climate protection by a total of eur 504 million.
over 21% of spending is climate-related, and we are clearly over the 20% target, but we still have a lot of work to do to get to 25% or even higher.
but it was also important for us to support the climate change issue in the cef energy with eur 96 million, the cef transport with eur 37 million, the european satellite systems, which are also essential in climate research, erasmus youth exchange with eur 50 million more, for a total of eur 2.9 billion and a gain of 3.6%, the youth employment initiative with eur 28.3 million and, if necessary, with another eur 50 million from june.
we've been in the media, in coal regions in transition, to answer key climate change questions there as well.
for example, the horizon 2020 programme - the largest research programme of the european union - we increased it by 8.8% compared to 2019. i think this is a good sign for the whole scientific community, and also that one in five euros of this budget is going to be allocated to the fight against climate change.
we are a long way from the 1.3% for the financial framework that this parliament is calling for and with which we would really have a budget strong enough to mark a turning point in european policies and, above all, to lead certain policies such as the fight against climate change, which really needs a boost from the european union.
the deal we reached reflects strongly our common priorities – climate action, growth and competitiveness, research and digitalisation, young people, security and migration.
this year we have made a considerable effort to strengthen the climate relevance of the eu budget and get as close as possible to fulfilling the union’s 20% climate target to be reached by 2020. to this aim, we have reinforced relevant programmes in the area of research and development, transport and energy infrastructure and the eu’s external action.
furthermore, programmes and projects supporting competitiveness increased by 7.9% compared with 2019. this means more funds for horizon 2020, the european satellite navigation systems, egnos and galileo, and the energy and transport strands of the connecting europe facility.
on the one hand, we had a starting point with a very good chance of reaching agreement, because the priorities of parliament and the council were the same: firstly, investments in research, innovation and the future of europe; secondly, measures to combat climate change; and thirdly, the fight against unemployment, job creation, especially for the young generation.
on climate change, we have significantly exceeded the 20% target in the 2020 budget with a percentage of 21.1%, thus offsetting a significant part of the shortfalls caused by too little investment in 2014 and 2015. we have horizon 2020 at its peak in terms of investment from the european research and innovation budget of 13.5 billion, an increase of 8.8% compared to 2019. i would advise all those involved to take this maximum level of funding for research under horizon 2020 as the starting point for horizon europe and not to underestimate it, because it is here that economic strength, competitiveness, investment in technologies for sustainability and climate protection are visible.
connecting europe facility: energy significantly increased, plus 35%, transport moderately increased.
this is a budget which gives priority to the climate, research and innovation, and i would like to highlight eur 302 million in reinforcement and reinforcement, in particular, for the fight against cancer, which does not forget young people, the youth employment initiative, the reinforcement of erasmus + and which also gives priority to competitiveness.
to win the climate battle we have all been talking about, the european commission itself says that we are missing 300 billion a year if we stick to the target of reducing co2 emissions by only 40%.
but since our objective - thanks to ursula von der leyen - is more ambitious, since we all agree to halve co2 emissions in the next ten years, the need for funding is obviously necessary.
we're at least 400 billion dollars short every year to win the climate battle.
we applaud the european investment bank, which says it's going to stop fossil fuel investments and double its climate loans, that's very good.
i hope this is the last year we vote in such a constrained environment.
this year, the climate issue was at the heart of our concerns.
this is how we have obtained an increase of €500 million compared to the first draft budget for programmes contributing to climate protection, but also €300 million for research, €130 million for the interconnection of our energy and transport networks, not to mention €50 million for erasmus.
according to a recent opinion poll, climate change has become the second most important concern of citizens across the european union.
despite these strong efforts, we will fall short of the target of 20% of climate spending for the period 2014-2020. it's a failure.
however, at our insistence, the commission said that it would redirect money not used in certain programmes to climate lines.
firstly, in response to the spontaneous statement by the honourable member, we have increased the connecting europe facility for energy by a large majority.
the energy sector is not primarily concerned with lng terminals, but with the energy infrastructure as a whole.
europe's energy policy has always been based on three objectives: first, sustainability and thus climate protection; second, security of supply; and third, affordability of energy.
now the new parliament has to decide so you: what role should gas play in europe's energy mix in 2020, 2030, 2040 and 2050?
green also has a vision: why not produce green gas in africa from solar installations, which is fed into the gas grid at lng terminals in europe and thus play a role in the energy mix of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in a climate-neutral and sustainable way?
the majority of the money goes into cross-border electricity lines and infrastructure to complete the internal energy market and to bring renewables where they are needed, renewable electricity for example, wind power from ireland through england into the european union.
the whole world is in motion as seldom before: china, the us, geopolitical movements, technology, the climate... the list could go on and on.
the same applies to assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters which have a significant impact on living conditions, the environment or the economy.
– mr president, climate change is real and its impacts are all too real.
what happened in venice is, unfortunately, an example of what is to come as climate change develops.
we must be proactive, and this is why in recent years the commission has been putting an increased focus on prevention, climate adaptation and risk management policies.
i am sure that the next commission will continue in this way because it is the only way to deal with the new phenomena due to climate change.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
of course, it has always been the case that in autumn it rains and rains a lot, but today we are dealing with a new phenomenon, climate change, which is increasing the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events.
we must start from a great cultural battle, even before it is an environmental one, on consumption and soil protection and put the debate on the need for a specific european union directive back at the centre.
in addition, tragedies are avoided by doing environmental mitigation work: you don't wait for the river to run out, but you build the expansion boxes and the waterworks.
the sustainable investment plan, which we are expecting from president von der leyen, must therefore include a specific chapter on hydrogeological prevention.
the european union, through the regional development fund, has allocated 10 million euros to restore the maritime character of the site, by including it in a sustainable tourism approach.
we cannot ignore the fact that, as a result of global warming, the temperature of the mediterranean sea has risen, which increases the frequency and intensity of storms.
in conclusion, there is still room to defend our regions and their cultural heritage in the face of climate change, but governments must provide more resources to protect their citizens and implement strategic flood-resilient management plans.
in december 2016, this assembly approved a motion for a resolution and an amendment, proposed by the 5 star movement, which called for and approved by a large majority the need to exclude from the calculation of the deficit, within the framework of the stability and growth pact, investments for sustainable reconstruction and for anti-seismic prevention, including the european structural funds.
so there can be no green new deal without recognising the hydrogeological disaster as a priority, and above all without recognising and facing concretely with the facts the fight against climate change, which is there and exists, and which some people, on the other hand, continue to forage for or even deny, but finance investments in fossil sources.
i think it's important that we take this opportunity to talk not just about extreme weather as such, but also to connect it to the global warming that we're seeing and the climate emergency that europe and the world are in right now.
of course, this is about climate policy and long-term prevention policy, but it is also about urgently helping and making sure that we build resilience where we see that cities and people can be affected.
it is not just about fires, floods, hurricanes or droughts, but about global warming, which we must tackle and about europe's determination to act.
i would therefore like to call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the climate emergency which we also have on the table for this week's partsession.
that is why we are calling on the european union to release the solidarity fund as a matter of urgency, we are calling for research to be undertaken into ecological systems to prevent flooding and we are calling on the european union to take advantage of this event in order to preserve our world heritage.
all this, mr commissioner, while remaining ready to use all the instruments available in the cap, as you have mentioned, to avoid triggering a market crisis, without waiting for the consequences to become irreversible for strategic sectors from the social, economic and environmental point of view.
it is legitimate for our states to intervene to support our strategic industries and they will have to do so even more tomorrow to meet the challenge of the ecological transition.
we therefore call on the commission, and we call on you, madam commissioner, to support a reform of the wto to end free and undistorted competition and to put social and environmental issues at the heart of trade policies.
providing a more predictable international trade environment for our farmers is the surest way to defend the livelihoods of our farmers in the long term.
the european union – and i think i can count you all in – have made a choice: we support a rule-based multilateral trading system, because that benefits our citizens, our companies, and it creates a predictable structure and a good environment to operate in and to flourish.
we have the most progressive and ecological commission in the history of the commission, and i do not understand the search for arguments.
first, madam president, you took strong pledges and made serious political commitments for a progressive change of the european union – a change which is social, environmental and economic.
second, we have a strong team of socialist commissioners who have the vision, competence and energy to deliver, and the commission cannot be seen anymore as the domain of the epp, where one party dominates the policies.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is not a vote like any other, it is a major vote, perhaps the vote of the century, to tackle the two greatest challenges of our time: the climate catastrophe and the inequality crisis, two issues that cannot be accommodated by vague or contradictory commitments.
however, despite these few advances, you still cling to the dogmas that are responsible for the current social, democratic and ecological crises.
how can we pursue a green pact while pursuing climate-killing free trade agreements?
i will hand you a letter from a lebanese politician from the tripoli area, who tells us that the european union has financed a waste treatment plant which has never been operational.
only together can we provide answers to global challenges, starting with tackling the climate and biodiversity crises.
our friends in the acp countries are sounding the alarm because the consequences of climate change are threatening their survival.
the european union's support for adaptation to climate change is essential if we are to act before it is too late.
another major challenge is the fight against poaching and wildlife trafficking, which must be a priority to save biodiversity.
protection of human rights, the rule of law, the sustainable development goals and the fight against climate change are all issues that will find solutions if we act together, and parliamentary diplomacy is the vehicle for real progress.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the protection of forest and environmental defenders in the eu (2019/2939 (rsp)).
environmental defenders represent natural and indispensable allies in the promotion of environmental rights.
another tool is the directive on environmental crime in the european union.
the commission is currently evaluating how the directive has contributed to the fight against environmental crime.
environmental crime is also considered a threat to european security and to the well-being of citizens.
the european union is also providing financial means for the protection, restoration and sustainable management of forests in line with the eu forest strategy.
the european union’s rural development funds under the common agricultural policy are the main source of funding for forests, amounting to eur 8.2 billion of public expenditure in the current multiannual financial framework (mff) period 2014-2020. last but not least, the recent communication on stepping up eu action to protect and restore the world’s forests shows that the european union is increasing its efforts to step up global action against biodiversity loss.
today the whole world is called upon to fight against what knows no national or continental boundaries, namely to combat the profound climate change that affects our daily lives.
sustainable forest management is extremely important in this respect, given the increased carbon dioxide secretion.
mr president, every year more and more women and men who fight for the protection of the environment are the victims of violence and intimidation.
in 2018, more than 160 people died fighting for the environment around the world.
among human rights activists, environmental activists often face serious dangers because of the financial interests that their actions call into question.
these companies - european companies importing raw materials and products from third countries - now have to ensure that their partners and the entire supply chain respect human and environmental rights.
environmental activists must be able to look to europe for protection and access to justice when they are victims of such violence.
the justice system should not be a tool to silence activists, but to defend them against those who attack their rights and cause environmental damage.
such measures should make it possible to better protect and defend environmental activists in europe and the rest of the world.
they cover 30% of the earth's surface, but they maintain 80% of biodiversity.
the truth is that as the conditions of our forests worsen, the conditions of the people who defend them, of the environmental defenders, are also deteriorating in the world.
some data has been given, and, indeed, according to some reports, such as the front line defenders report, in 2018 two hundred and forty-seven environmental leaders have been shot, persecuted or have disappeared precisely for defending their environmental environment, for defending the right of all.
because it must be said that the destruction of biodiversity is not exclusively a matter of environmental law but must be considered as a violation of international human rights.
in this sense, the european union must take action to defend those who defend our environment.
we must improve our environmental legislation and fight environmental crime.
indeed, as has also been mentioned, forty environmental organizations from all over the world are protesting and demanding justice in connection with the murder last month of two forest guards in romania who had denounced the illegal logging of the forests in their region.
according to ngos, at least 164 environmental defenders were killed last year.
it is always possible to put pressure on the states and multinationals that encourage this violence for ever greater profits, but we will help these heroic defenders of the environment above all if we too change our consumption habits.
on monday evening we had a debate on the climate and environmental emergency, which had the word emergency in its title.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that the new commission has made the environmental issue one of the major tasks of the legislature and that your first political act is the presentation of a european green pact.
first, it will have to ensure that the european union plays its full part in the fight to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
to fix the fire requires that, in the next hundred days, we commit to reducing our emissions by 65 percent by 2030. and climate change is just one symptom of humanity's failure to respect the planet's biophysical limits.
we must also act without delay on biodiversity, on the issue of resource depletion or on the pollution of nature, a nature on which we simply depend for our lives.
secondly, to succeed, the ecological transition must be solidarity-based, it must go hand in hand with a drastic reduction in economic and social inequalities.
of course, sustainable production and consumption is more expensive.
for example, what is the point of spending part of the eu budget on combating climate change if the other part is making the problem worse?
worse still, the general climate today is one of deregulation, which is totally irresponsible.
it is 60 years since scientists first began to establish the link between human activities and climate change.
half a century since the club of rome warned us of the deadly danger of unlimited economic growth; thirty years since the rio summit, when jacques chirac told us: our house is burning and we are looking elsewhere; it's been more than 20 years since the first un climate conference, and our greenhouse gas emissions are still rising, and they're still rising, while resources are running out and biodiversity is collapsing.
we are discussing the sweeping changes to our climate and energy goals brought forward by the european commission no sooner than 10 days since taking up office and before our recent, existing climate agreements have been implemented.
the eu’s long-term climate policy.
and today’s headline goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 should have followed the same path, and member state governments should not be sidelined on something this fundamental.
are the commission’s new climate goals credible and achievable?
we welcome the european commission's move to present its action plan to us, but let us say it right away, any climate initiative will be in vain if it does not tackle the root of the problem: an economic system that leads to both the destruction of our ecosystem and the explosion of inequalities.
so some of your proposals, such as on reforestation, state aid or energy efficiency, are moving in the right direction, but your plan is limited to objectives which remain vague, non-binding and unfunded.
on energy, how can we be credible without a clear timetable for the exit of coal and gas and further extending an inefficient carbon market?
on trade, what are the environmental clauses for if we pursue climate-killing free trade agreements?
finally, as regards financing, where are the concrete commitments for a kerosene tax, a carbon tax and a plastic tax?
as it stands, this plan will not achieve your target of a 50% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, which is already below the efforts needed to meet the paris agreement.
worse still - and this is the most important thing for our group - this plan ignores the human and social dimension of the ecological transition, even though - and you yourself have recognized this - the most vulnerable are the first victims of the disaster and it is not the petty just transition fund that will change the situation.
this is a major political mistake: we will not solve the climate crisis against the people or by making them pay the highest price, as emmanuel macron tried to do in france.
the ecological transition must be made by, for and with the peoples of europe.
so, faced with the urgency, europe needs a genuine social and ecological green deal for europe, on a scale not seen since the post-war period.
first, the green deal for europe must set a binding, priority climate law target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 70% by 2030, launch a major investment plan to plan for a 100% renewable energy transition by 2050 and impose binding energy saving targets on businesses.
it must also initiate a comprehensive plan for renewing the energy and heating sectors to lift 125 million europeans out of energy poverty; it must revolutionize our agricultural policy by encouraging a peasant model; it must move away from the logic of free trade and dare to adopt a protectionist approach based on solidarity.
it must put the central bank at the service of the ecological transition; it must create budgetary margins by breaking free from the shackles of austerity and fighting tax evasion.
these are the broad lines of the ecological and social plan which we are putting on the table today, this is what the people and the planet are waiting for, finally a pact for happy days, a pact for the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president von der leyen, the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 and the many measures proposed, including the circular economy, reforestation and air quality, still leave many doubts.
first, where do we find the financial resources for transformation and for the climate and ecological transition?
you have shown little courage on your own resources: the tax on non-recycled plastic packaging waste and the ets quotas will not be enough.
and what is the role of the european central bank in tackling the climate challenge?
i welcome the proposal for more ambitious climate targets.
if the energy transition is cost-effective, europe has a good chance of building up the global strength of industry.
secondly, the full acceptance of natural gas as a bridging technology is a prerequisite for the conversion of the energy sector to renewable sources.
we need this not only as a base load, but we also need intact gas grids for the transformation of wind and solar energy into hydrogen-based solutions.
the european energy transition must become a key element of european neighbourhood and foreign policy.
fourth, the energy transition must be market-based and technology-neutral.
madam president, president von der leyen, vice-president timmermans, the next years are the time window we have to plan out the new economic model that we want to adopt, and the european green deal can be the industrial revolution that puts at its core social rights, workers’ rights, sustainability and our industry’s competitiveness.
to reach carbon neutrality by 2050 we need a 55% co2 reduction target for 2030 and to seriously consider an interim target for 2040. it gives clarity to member states and industries where we want to go and how we want to do it, and no industry should be allowed to hide behind international mechanisms simply to postpone action.
madam president, mr vice-president, today i am proud to be a european, and it is thanks to you that you have presented, in ten days, the largest ecological transition plan for an entire continent.
and we want to keep this course because it is the only way to lead society, to lead industry, to lead our territories to achieve the goal we have set ourselves: carbon neutrality by 2050. i would stress that we are particularly pleased to see a climate law in 2050, but also a quantified requirement for 2030, as has just been mentioned.
we want to reduce our emissions in a legally binding way by 2030 by at least 55%.
what we need is a green deal for europe that aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030, not 50% as you propose.
what we need is a green deal for europe that turns its back on fossil fuel companies, that gets off carbon and stops all funding, yes all funding, for those who are destroying our planet.
a true green deal for europe requires adapting our economy and legal framework to the environmental emergency.
strong measures, binding measures, a real duty of vigilance are needed to ensure that governments and companies finally meet their climate obligations.
we need a new social and environmental contract, and we cannot afford to fail.
this leads me to recall that the issue of climate change is not the only one, or even the most important.
the poisoning of soil, water and air, the race to say the least encouraged by free trade agreements, are also major problems, but we would point out that the extinction of the diversity of human societies, our common treasure, is probably an ecological problem even more important than the extinction of the diversity of animal and plant species.
this leads us to recall that only a state in full possession of its territory is capable of dealing with ecological emergencies.
this also leads us to remember that a nation that is a guarantor of its borders, of the identity and unity of its people is also the only one capable of facing the ecological emergency and that, moreover, the family, the place of transmission of responsibility for a territory, which we are striving to pass on to future generations more beautiful, richer and more alive, is the only one capable of helping us to respond to the ecological emergencies.
this also leads us to be careful that behind the green pact for europe there is not the trap of standardizing ways of doing things, practices and production methods, which would destroy our customs, our traditions and the uniqueness of the customs of our territories, which make up the diversity of our societies and which, in some ways, are a response to the energy challenges.
finally, as a frenchman, i can only emphasize our attention to the treatment of nuclear waste.
civil and military nuclear power are totally linked, it is for us an energy of the future, but it is also, for us, the condition for france's strategic independence and perhaps the pillar of a europe of defence.
finally, i would like to mention the issue of ecology: a currency will not be sustainable if it is imposed in a world which is not itself sustainable.
i would like to see environmental scientists also taking part in this council, which would increase its diversity.
the two pillars of this proposal, if agreed on in the future, will represent a fundamental shift in the global tax system towards a much fairer and more sustainable system.
so it goes - "just a quick look at reality" - from energy to financial services, from manufacturing to transport, from agriculture to tourism, and so on.
we would need that 1 000 billion more than enough to finance something called the ecological transition, which is a real emergency.
it was reinforced by more than 90 events on the importance of the ocean in balancing the climate, and increasingly to show how states can include ocean-based solutions in their national contributions.
it's the example of blue carbon, it's all these ocean forests like mangroves, it's marine energy, it's reducing greenhouse gas emissions from shipping.
we cannot continue to adhere to a financialised economy while regretting the damage caused all over the world by the extinction of biodiversity and human diversity.
i therefore believe that more modesty, more solutions close to the ground, more efforts directed as closely as possible to smes, which are the economy of our territories, are probably the best thing the european union can do to combat environmental disturbances.
concrete commitments were expected in madrid, but issues such as article 6 of the paris agreement on carbon markets remained open.
the state of the oceans was addressed for the first time, the greater impact of climate change on women was recognised, the important role of science in the challenges ahead was debated.
climate action is not just done through measures approved by governments.
as the european union, we have and we are trying to stay ahead of the curve in tackling climate change, by transforming our economy through the green deal and by aspiring to create new and good jobs.
but the green deal should particularly support countries and regions that are leading the way in decarbonizing, such as greece, which wants to phase out old plants by 2023 and eliminate coal from its energy mix by 2028. the speed with which european economies decarbonise should be a key criterion for providing support for the transition.
but when we're debating the important climate issues and when we're debating the green deal, you're not going to be constructive, you're not going to be here to contribute.
to meet the 1.5°c target included in the paris agreement, we need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030. and we must set this goal as soon as possible, without waiting for cop26, to set an example and have a ripple effect.
so let us not be hypocrites, let us finally put our words and actions in line with this: we have the future of our ecosystem in our hands.
contrary to expectations, governments have unfortunately failed to agree on rules for creating a global carbon trading system and for channelling new funds to countries facing the impacts of climate change.
i want to thank the commissioner for being able to uphold the paris agreement, when countries agreed in paris in 2015 to review their climate commitments by 2020. but countries like china, india, brazil have opposed more ambitious commitments, saying that it should now be up to each country and that if stronger wording is to be adopted towards increasing ambition, it will only be if rich countries provide adequate financial support.
madam president, since the signing of the paris agreement in 2015, successive climate summits, including cop25, have been disappointing and unable to respond to an increasingly active and interventionist civil society calling for more action and more ambition from policy makers.
the absence of agreement on article 6 on carbon markets, which was stalled a year ago in katowice and which was again unable to be unblocked in madrid, was particularly unsatisfactory.
after this summit, the implementation of the carbon tax is more urgent than ever.
in the morning we were talking about the climate and tonight we are about to adopt a list of projects of so-called community interest, which will endorse the union's dependence on fossil fuels for several decades.
this is in total contradiction to the ecological emergency.
at cop25, representatives from tuvalu warned us that denying the millions of victims of global warming was a crime.
we must recognize, condemn the crimes of ecocide, we must guarantee environmental justice.
we have such a huge impact on the world that the climate cannot be saved without us.
when we know that four out of five flowering plants need the help of these insects to produce seeds and fruit, we understand the threat that their decline poses not only to biodiversity and agriculture, but also to humanity.
in this respect, agri-environmental measures in rural development are an important tool in promoting agricultural biodiversity and in conserving and creating habitats favourable to the development of pollinators, but much more needs to be done, and it is essential to ensure that in the next cap rural development interventions are equipped with the resources needed to achieve much more ambitious objectives.
this is a major challenge for the preservation of biodiversity and agricultural production, because without pollinators, our food sovereignty will be in question.
in this debate we have already stressed the importance of having appropriate legislation for the protection of pollinators, with increased support for research and innovation, allowing the development of sustainable practices.
written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on enabling the digital transformation of health and care, by bartosz arłukowicz, sara cerdas, frédérique ries, margrete auken, luisa regimenti, joanna kopcińska, kateřina konečná, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000042/2019 – b9-0062/2019) (2019/2804(rsp)).
the brutal sacking of greece has confirmed the violently anti-democratic nature of the current european institutions and the need to change them in depth to address the two challenges of our time: climate change and inequality.
these treaties are not the word of god, of course, and we must be able to question them without taboos and assume that the new social and ecological green pact will not be able to be implemented with the necessary power in the present framework.
investment in the ecological transition is constrained by the golden rule which also breaks our social protection systems.
we need a renewed collective project based on social and fiscal harmonization from above, in short a pact for harmonious and sustainable progress rather than growth and stability, a central bank at the service of the ecological transition and the new green pact.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our trade and imports must not be a hindrance to our collective fight against climate change.
to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, we are requiring our european companies to make additional efforts to reduce their co2 emissions.
the green deal's carbon border adjustment mechanism must be implemented quickly, with simple rules that are understandable and applicable to all.
finally, and this is not the case in this agreement, we must impose sustainable resource management by introducing binding clauses in our trade, in compliance with the paris agreements on climate and forest protection, as we said during the debates on the amazon forest fires.
these crises are compounded by the consequences of global warming.
anyone who reports on human rights violations, environmental crimes, corruption, is denounced as a foreign agent.