not only is responsible use of herbicides vital in the production of food, it is also beneficial in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting sustainable farming.
the eu rightly champions high standards in food production and the importance of protecting public health, and i agree with all of that, food safety and the environment.
my fundamental problem with this report is that it has taken a huge amount of effort and energy – and i commend our rapporteurs for the work that they’ve put in – but in doing so, what actually do we gain?
i think it should go forward as a monument of how we are very, very good at establishing ways to waste our time and i look forward to dealing with the general food law, which is a far more important piece of legislation.
we must put safety, environmental concerns and consideration for truck drivers at the top of our list of priorities for this sector.
despite repeated attempts to find compromise solutions on issues such as the training of drivers, the environmental impact of hired vehicles or on the level of liberalisation of the market, the rapporteur has shown little willingness, i’m afraid, to accommodate different views, leaving us with a weaker text.
and while we are seeing an increase in the number of refugees we also have to recognise that that is a result of conflict, persecution and that increasingly we are going to see people pushed to move because of climate change, and i am sure that even patriots would want a robust position from the european union on tackling climate change if they are so worried about the growing number of people moving.
we should now direct our energy to a positive and beneficial negotiation on trade which minimises all frictions at all borders without the controversy of the backstop.
you either move away from the eu structures and destroy jobs, destroy life chances, reduce workers’ rights and environmental protections or you stay within the structures of the eu and lose all say and power over what those structures are.
mr president, i support the idea of a european globalisation adjustment fund to help industries and areas in transition and to respond to the challenges of an ever-changing global economy presenting all the challenges that brings, whether it be new technology, artificial intelligence, automation, moving to a low-carbon and zero-carbon economy.
civil society is operating in an extremely hostile environment.
we will never surrender to theresa may’s hostile environment regarding refugees, asylum seekers and migrants.
here we can continue to be part of the world’s most successful peace project, and together we can tackle the huge cross—border issues we face, most notably climate change.
in this case i welcome the focus on the sustainable management of shared stocks.
this is an important step forward for fisheries cooperation and should help to promote sustainable fisheries and sustainable development of the ivorian fisheries sector.
the commission has therefore called for the use of the ‘passerelle clause’ to move to qualified majority voting in certain areas of common foreign and security policy, taxation and the environment.
the commission welcomes the energy and commitment of this parliament.
now more than ever we need closer ties between eu member states, working on social cohesion, security, tackling climate change – continuing to strengthen peace at the heart of the eu project.
that was a shameful waste of time.
in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), we agreed on the need for a code of ethics to guide the development of ai.
the second is environmental impact.
that is why our report on the sustainable use of pesticides is more crucial now than ever.
i think it is a shame, however, that the european union still cannot quite bring itself to put control over the fisheries into the hands of smaller entities, of the nations themselves, because it is they who not only understand the fisheries but have a stake in making sure it is sustainable.
the company has already detected over 20 000 anomalies which, once fixed, boost the amount of green energy that solar panels can produce.
anna was a passionate campaigner for social justice who was so sickened by the terrible protracted war in syria and the untold human suffering that she decided to dedicate her youthful energy to working with the democratic kurdish forces in northern syria, the same forces who mounted the only credible opposition to daesh and assad in the region.
it contains commitments on the environment, in respect of the management of forests and fisheries, for example, and a commitment to implement multilateral agreements, including the paris agreement.
i particularly welcome singapore’s agreement to the early implementation of the trade and sustainable development chapter and the commitment to take concrete steps to ratify the outstanding three core international labour organisation (ilo) conventions.
i am fully aware that some of my colleagues have reservations, especially around the ratification of the ilo conventions and sustainability.
i, for one, am thoroughly reassured by my colleague, david martin, one of the rapporteurs, who has done an outstanding job and has succeeded in getting the singaporeans to address many of our concerns with a letter on behalf of the prime minster making commitments on the ilo conventions and an inclusion in the agreement that sets benchmarks on sustainable development which go beyond other agreements.
so we all would like to see a better environment to live in.
what needs to be done is to facilitate an environment where science develops better – maybe – tax breaks on these kind of things.
so the actual products and services that go towards sustainability are attractive to the consumer and market forces will create the situation that we all want.
in an era when we should be working more closely together for a sustainable peaceful world, trump goes against the grain by abandoning partnership in favour of a regressive unilateral approach.
in particular, the environmental objectives faced by terminal operators, in relation to tackling congestion and pollution, should have been specifically acknowledged and protected.
i urge you to get back on that right road, to break clean from the evil forces lurking in your shadow, to dismiss those responsible for the recent brutalities, to release all the political prisoners and work with the opposition forces, the churches and civil society in a great national dialogue that will lead to the genuine and sustainable democratic change that your people so desperately want.
we must encourage a peaceful, democratic, national dialogue on an equal footing with civil society, religious leaders, opposition and government, to find a better solution for zimbabwe – a sustainable solution that ends this violence once and for all.
this is a crazy waste of money, it is a very poor tribute to the midwich cuckoos, and it is a great start to the week: you have really got me fired up, so i want to thank you for that.
deforestation, as we’ve already heard, is the second leading cause of global warming and this agreement will be key, not only in achieving the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, but also the paris climate change goals.
it seems a perfectly sensible thing for the european union to work with vietnam on sustainability.
it damages ecosystems, accelerates climate change and fuels conflict.
it’s essential that their voice is heard in order to build sustainable peace and to safeguard women’s hard—won rights in the country.
we need a sustainable solution based on the principles of dignity, safety and fundamental rights.
we don’t want to waste four more years of our lives – four more years of agony.
you don’t want to waste another four years.
in this debate we’re discussing trade, not climate change, and this is a serious point that i’m making.
it is simply that you should not, with your considerable political expertise, tack irrelevant things about climate change – or, for that matter, other irrelevant things – onto what should be basic ‘plain vanilla’ trade agreements.
it would make a mockery of the idea of trade for all, and would put the final nail in the coffin of the vision of an eu trade policy based on environmental and social justice.
with the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) stating that we have only 12 years to solve the climate crisis, it is simply impossible to open trade negotiations with a country that is the world’s second biggest emitter of carbon dioxide and yet is reneging on its climate commitments at every opportunity.
rather than feeding trump’s ego, we should develop a strong industrial policy that defends european workers and supports the move towards a low-carbon economy.
– madam president, i would also like to thank our rapporteur from the committee on employment and social affairs for the very good work that she did on this report, and i welcome the growing attention that we’re now seeing being given in the semester process to climate change.
the report recalls the need to modernise and decarbonise our industry, our transport, our energy sectors and, as we just heard from the council, environmental sustainability matters.
if we fail to respond properly, we’re going to see our economy and our societies pay an ever-increasing cost, as we struggle to deal with the development and effects of extreme climate events.
the only way is to clean up their balance sheet whilst we have a positive economic climate.
secondly, sustainable finance should become the norm, not the exception, and as banks are still the main financing source of the eu economy, they have a big responsibility.
we have taken steps recently in terms of the sustainable finance package, but my question to the vice-president is: how will the commission ensure that banks exercise this responsibility?
our common priorities remain competitiveness, economic growth, better and more jobs and living conditions, research, the young generation, the fight against environmental developments and the fight against climate change.
from cosme and our smes to start-up support for innovative minds in the european union, from erasmus+ to our intercultural skills, from cybersecurity to the fight against climate change and for nature conservation, we have a wealth of programmes that point in the right direction and that need to be decided and strengthened now within the limits of our limited resources.
they are arrested simply for campaigning for workers’ rights, for environmental standards and against the death penalty.
it underlines the potential of gsp+ schemes to promote human rights, equality and sustainable development and the eradication of child and forced labour.
i and millions of british citizens would... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, climate change is a global phenomenon that knows no borders.
i particularly want to draw attention to an amazing youth group in my constituency in a school in accrington, called the eco group, who came to the european parliament to present their ideas about the environment.
we have had four years to think about how to address the sustainable development goals.
mr president, the sustainable development goals (sdgs) are a commitment to transform our world so that future generations can live in harmony and peace in a much more equal world without poverty and with respect for the environment.
economic and sustainable development must go hand in hand and growth cannot be understood simply in terms of gdp.
– madam president, europe’s electricity crisis is the result of irresponsible energy policy-making choices of the unelected commission in brussels.
in today’s report, mr kariņš addresses fundamental issues such as the intermittency of renewable energy and the collateral effects of the eu energy subsidies.
the eu focused its energy policy on unreliable, expensive, intermittent renewable sources.
these authoritarian decisions are undermining competitiveness and are driving energy-intensive businesses outside of europe, increasing what’s called ‘the carbon leakage’ phenomenon.
i sincerely hope that the uk will exit the eu repealing all parts of the eu energy and climate policy, which is failing.
the uk has a chance to get back in the real world and invest in reliable energy sources such as nuclear and coal, while also exploring national indigenous energy resources such as the local undiscovered shale gas.
labour women have played a huge role in the life of this parliament: not just on the women’s rights committee, but leading in other areas such as economy, internal market, international trade, health and environment, foreign affairs, development, culture and education.
– mr president, i requested two minutes to speak and just brief honourable members on the sustainable benchmark legislation.
according to the oecd, eur 6.2 billion are needed globally to make our economy more sustainable and to limit global warming to 2°.
it reduces the risk of greenwashes and obliges all benchmark administrators to disclose how they are aligned with the esg (environmental, social and governance) criteria.
sustainability is a multifaceted concept.
like climate change, it is a race we can win.
we can overcome gender inequality and make our political system more sustainable and diverse.
it would create savings in carbon emissions, and lighter nights would boost outdoor tourism and leisure activities.
between now and 2030, the eu and the global community must deliver on the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the paris climate agreement, as well as on the promise of creating a sustainable future – not just for ourselves, but for all who share our planet.
will the commission commit to our proposed climate and environmental spending targets?
what a waste.
and, to my mind, what a waste to lose highly skilled jobs and research capacity from britain.
my question is this: we all agree that we need to make changes and improve the environment, and this is a particularly important issue.
the benefit to the environment will be virtually nil.
madam president, the overall quantity of waste is increasing rapidly on a worldwide scale.
here in the eu, around 3.5 tonnes per capita of waste is produced annually, including more than 400 kilograms per person, per year, of domestic waste.
all the projections available today show that this increase at worldwide level will continue at least until 2030, and in europe no real decoupling between waste and economic growth is expected before 2020. single-use plastic items represent about half of all marine litter items found on european beaches.
i want to ask all of you to support their climate strikes, their friday’s for future, because if we don’t listen to them, then they will not elect us in the future.
the new programme ensures that the sector will reach its economic potential contributing to sustainable growth, jobs and social cohesion.
mr president, it is long overdue that environmental concerns take precedence over purely business—driven interests.
prosperity in the 21st century must go hand in hand with sustainability.
i therefore urge this parliament to take an ambitious stance for a genuine alignment between investment, sustainability and social impact.
we must, first and foremost, provide support to the many initiatives aimed at alternative and sustainable business models, such as cooperatives.
we must support, politically and financially, initiatives aimed at linking economy with human rights, workers’ rights, social justice, equity and sustainability, because that provides the way forward to achieving the united nations sustainable development goals (sdgs).
madam president, in the united kingdom, 2.4 billion litres of water every single day go to waste through leaks from the network – 432 million litres in my own region of the east midlands.
i am sure we would all agree that that is an unacceptable waste, bad for the environment and bad for people who are paying their water bills and paying for that wastage and leakage in ever—higher water bills.
it is what we agreed in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi); it is what we agreed in this parliament in october.
we need the water industry to do far more to reduce that leakage so consumers get a fairer deal, and so that we reduce water wastage, which is bad for the environment, as well.
it sets the benchmark for the world on trade standards, environmental protection and human rights.
if the deal is passed in a panic, if some other concoction is passed in a panic, it is not sustainable.
the only sustainable way forward is to put whatever comes out of this process to a vote of the people, because it is nothing like what was offered in 2016. and don’t be afraid of giving us more time if we need a longer extension, mr verhofstadt and others, don’t judge us by the people over there who rail against the benefits of the european union.
mr president, i was pleased that the prime minister mentioned climate change in his speech and the importance of the european union delivering on the paris climate agreement.
those trees and forests are all soaking up carbon emissions, and increasingly you’re using your wood to make products that go into the construction industry, which also continue to soak up the carbon.
i wondered if you’d be open to intervening with the british government to point out that this is maybe the wrong road to take in response to grenfell, because the need to tackle climate change means we need to build much more in wood in future?
no one will stay in love with globalisation unless there are stronger, fairer social and environmental rules internationally and europe can lead the way, but is our trade policy really fit for purpose?
– mr president, the eu common rules for the internal market for natural gas reiterate the principle according to which more eu interference is going to solve europe’s energy deficiencies and dependencies from external energy sources.
new eu definitions and less derogations to member states will, according to this report, lower energy prices and augment regulatory certainty.
nevertheless, this house, just like the unelected eu commission here in brussels, seems to be living in a parallel reality, far from the poor householder that cannot afford their energy bills.
you are willing to sacrifice the needs of ordinary people to achieve a greater, yet highly expensive and unreliable energy goal.
i think it is time to put the eu project aside and admit that eu energy legislation has impoverished europe and its industries and households.
member states should be focusing their agenda and finances on discovering local energy sources.
we know renewables are not reliable enough to make europe free from energy imports.
as for my country, britain, i deeply hope that once outside the european union, hopefully with a no deal brexit, we will be able to scrap eu energy legislation altogether and invest in proper reliable and affordable energy sources.
brexit britain means fewer opportunities to collaborate and for businesses to thrive, reduced capacity to tackle the big issues like climate change, and power ebbing away.
but what is critical is that this reform will entrust the esas with greater consumer protection powers that will ensure that toxic financial products will be prohibited, and with additional responsibilities in their mandate on environmental, social and governance factors.
with the rise of zero—hour contracts in the uk, through the emergence of the gig economy, and the transformative way our world is changing through the fourth industrial revolution, we must adapt legislation to ensure that workers are protected in this new ecosystem in the world of work.
to achieve this objective, the conclusions identified actions to be taken and which, indeed, have been implemented in the last month: the holding of regular meetings of the european election cooperation network, in which member states share expertise and good practices and jointly identify threats; the setting—up and launch of the rapid alert system, where national contact points in member states share information rapidly on disinformation campaigns; the enhancement of strategic communication dedicated to european values and policies; the strengthening of the european media ecosystem by facilitating networks of independent fact—checkers; the promotion of media and digital literacy and awareness—raising activities to protect the integrity of the electoral process, together with the private sector and civil society; the assessment of cyber—threats in the electoral context and measures to address them and preserve the integrity of the electoral system in this regard (and, following the recommendation in the compendium on cyber security of election technology, a table—top exercise on protecting the 2019 european elections took place on parliament’s premises two weeks ago); a call on social media platforms to invest in resources to deal in a responsible and accountable manner with election-related online activities; in the same vein, the european council in march called for the full implementation of the code of practice; and finally, among this set of actions, cooperation with relevant international actors.
the only remaining threat is the extreme brexit sought by climate change deniers and anti-science populists.
that’s what being unable to apply for european research council (erc) funding could trigger according to the university of cambridge, because it is not just the hard cash that is important, eu funding is key in enabling international collaboration and attracting the very best scientists, and horizon 2020 also means that university of east anglia scientists are building prototype, clean, cheap and energy efficient batteries, while at the university of hertfordshire, ph.d. researchers are exploring photovoltaic technologies.
this is because we are something of an extraordinary committee, the most prolific legislative committee in parliament at the moment, but we are dealing with some of the toughest issues because we are dealing with a very tough political climate.
this file is a really good example of the kind of things that we were elected here to do – to up the ambition when it comes to tackling climate change, to increase the action that we take when it comes to cleaning up the vehicles that are on our roads, which are the single leading contributor not only to co2 emissions but to the poor quality air that we see in far too many of our cities, and that is affecting far too many of our citizens.
it is a great and noble thing at that we will be coming together here to provide money for clean vehicles that will deliver public goods and help member states achieve the climate and energy targets.
in a moment when the euro is in crisis and there need to be tax cuts to encourage growth, europe should worry about major citizens’ concerns, such as industry’s lack of competitiveness, carbon leakage and unemployment.
this disclosure regulation is a key element of the commission action plan on sustainable finance and it is an important capital markets union initiative to achieve climate neutrality by 2015. it is also a very important step towards the overall objective that you just mentioned of connecting finance with the needs of a more sustainable economy.
our consultations showed that there is not enough transparency on how financial market participants integrate in their policies the negative impact of climate change and its related risks on the value of the investments, for example in assets located in flood—prone areas.
in europe, we’re facing a yearly investment gap of eur 180 billion to reach our climate and energy goals.
the commission has proposed to devote a quarter of the eu’s budget to climate-related action as of 2021, but public spending is not enough.
the private sector has a key role to play in reorienting capital flows towards sustainable investments and reversing the negative effects of climate change.
the negotiations broadly kept the commission’s approach and added disclosure obligations on adverse sustainability impacts.
the reason is that investment decisions and financial advice might contribute to negative material effects on environment and society, regardless of whether the investment strategy pursues a sustainable objective or not.
for example, investments in assets that pollute water or devastate biodiversity.
we support this extension, which represents an important improvement of the proposal as it would achieve more transparency and better information to end users on all types of financial products concerning sustainability aspects.
this agreement will increase the level and quality of information available on sustainability issues.
we believe that it will bring behavioural changes in the financial markets to support the transition to a more sustainable economy.
first, financial entities will be incentivised to better manage sustainability risks.
second, better information on the sustainability of financial products and in financial advice will encourage a shift in retail investors’ behaviour.
finally, the disclosure on the negative externalities on environment and society will gradually contribute to price in these externalities.
this is not the last step as the commission is working with the co-legislators on the remaining part of the may package proposal on climate taxonomy and on the implementation of the other actions part of the sustainable financial action plan.
it was a joy to hear the global climate hero, greta thunberg, speak here on tuesday.
but she also condemned the hypocrisy of politicians who express concern about the climate while voting against action.
although it has been a political battle to make the progress we have, i hope she would be pleased by the eu’s agenda on sustainable finance, one of the most important tools to ensure the promise of systemic change to halt climate breakdown.
i’m proud that, once again, the eu leads the world on environmental standards; this time by agreeing the world’s first mandatory disclosure regime for a major financial market.
i deeply regret that the council did not match parliament’s level of ambition and continued to insist that some of the sustainability risks and impacts of investments can be concealed from citizens.
the inclusion of a regrettable comply and explain exemption means that companies can continue to choose to hide dirty and destructive investments, thus undermining the power of the sustainable finance agenda.
with thousands of climate demonstrators out on our streets, we call on our parliamentary colleagues and member states to listen to the will of the citizens, calling for a truly sustainable transition and to use our financial system to facilitate this.
when we talk about sexism and homophobia here in europe, we must remember that every act of discrimination, even if it seems minor, contributes to a global climate of hate that leads to the death of many people either by mob violence or at the hand of the state.
and in particular, in this case, it was placing massive emphasis on electrical vehicles as a way to reduce emissions.
today’s vote is an essential part in our efforts to connect finance with the sustainable development agenda.
today, we introduce new rules on how big banks and insurance companies need to not only consider the financial returns on investments, but also their effects on the environment, and issues such as the gender pay gap and stamping out corruption.
the aim of this change project is to find a broad and stable majority in this house to respond jointly to the triple environmental, social and democratic emergency and thus demonstrate that the european union is working for the benefit of all.
over the next five years, we will use the leverage of our 75 members and our teams to advance the cause of a fairer, more sustainable and more democratic europe.
a europe at the forefront of the fight to preserve our climate, biodiversity and natural resources; a europe that champions the fight for social, fiscal, economic and gender justice; a europe at the forefront of defending human rights freedoms and an ever more participatory democracy.
in the face of the triple emergency of environmental, social and democratic change, only such an alliance for change can save us.
and the third point is about managing migration flows: until we are able to protect our external borders, until we are able to protect our citizens, these institutions will not only never agree on how to redistribute who has the right to enter europe, but the risk is that this continent will be overwhelmed by migratory flows that are not sustainable.
the left group wants to take effective action against the climate emergency.
it cannot be the policy of the european union to throw human rights, social rights and environmental standards overboard for a few euros!
you must commit real action, and not just words, to the climate emergency.
it seems to absorb most of the political energy of the parties which are now in power in your country.
yet it is the least ecological and most destructive system in our economies.
entire generations of young people, their lives laid waste at the altar of the european ideal.
i would also like to recognise the good cooperation we had with the romanian presidency in completing and concluding all very important files on better tackling climate change.
so not only are we defending the nuclear deal with iran, promoting the sustainable development goals, implementing the paris agreement on climate change, creating a new generation of free and fair trade agreements, but we've always tried to build a multilateral framework where there was not one.
we must build on this momentum with renewed efforts on crucial issues for the eu and for this house: first, a clear eu perspective for enlargement countries; second, a fair and sustainable management of migration; and third, a strong engagement with countries that our borders to an effective european neighbourhood policy.
yes, the world today is not better off than it was in 2016. internally, our european values of democracy, solidarity and rule of law are challenged at their very foundations, and externally the unprecedented disengagement of great powers from multilateral platforms adds to outstanding security challenges and the destabilising consequences of climate change.
reforming the international organisation system is key, but for me, above all, sustainable development really has to be part of this strategy – and it is a security issue.
25% of those funds are dedicated to climate change in our proposal, and i really hope that this also can be supported and kept in your discussions on the next mff.
as i mentioned climate change and climate action and diplomacy, let me also say that one of the other priorities clearly indicated in our work is the work on cyber-security.
we have good cooperation with the un agencies – iom and unhcr in particular – and we have at the same time a sustainable and humane approach with our partners on the external side of migration.
it is not sustainable; not for the country, not for its citizens, not for the region, and not for the world.
a sustainable reform agenda for moldova should be accompanied by a determined effort to heal the deep social divisions that we have seen in recent months, including a genuine commitment to inter-party dialogue in the parliament in chișinău.
that future should be socially, economically and ecologically sustainable.
in fact, the slogan for our presidency neatly states this goal: sustainable europe – sustainable future.
to this end, the priorities for the finnish presidency are: first, to strengthen the eu’s position as a global leader in climate action; second, to strengthen common values and the rule of law; third, to make the eu more competitive and socially inclusive; and fourth, comprehensively to protect the security of citizens.
a key priority of the finnish presidency is the eu’s global leadership on climate action.
for the european union, leadership means committing to climate neutrality by 2050. our aim is to reach agreement on the main elements of this plan by the end of 2019. as the necessary measures will have an impact on all sectors of society, these measures to tackle climate change must be carried out in a socially sustainable way.
this is how we can make the eu the world’s most competitive and socially inclusive low-carbon economy.
the eu now needs a positive and comprehensive long-term strategy for sustainable growth.
by fostering skills, education and training, and promoting regional and social fairness, as well as gender equality, the eu will create sustainable growth.
we also believe that, to be able to tackle the challenges of climate change, population growth and migration management, it is essential for us to support stability and development in africa.
we think that what is needed is a stronger eu position as a global leader on climate action, a strengthening of our common values and the rule of law, a more competitive and socially inclusive eu, and comprehensive protection of our citizens’ security.
prime minister, when it comes to the environment you are already leading by example.
we have set ambitious targets for 2030 for greenhouse gas emissions reduction, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the commission has also laid out its vision for the eu to become climate-neutral by 2050. reaching climate neutrality with zero net greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 is not only possible but also economically beneficial.
the energy transition will not hurt our economy but, on the contrary, will result in the creation of new jobs, new business opportunities and hundreds of billions of euros per year in reduced air-pollution damages.
finland is showing us the way ahead with the unprecedented ambition of becoming climate-neutral by 2035. i therefore have no doubt that finland is the right country at the right time to take the european union forward.
it is why a key pillar of complementing the capital markets union is the action plan for financing sustainable growth presented by the commission in 2018. the idea behind the action plan is to help us make a systemic change in investment culture.
sustainability should not be seen as a niche within the financial system.
it is also why the commission has proposed that a quarter of the next long—term eu budget should be spent on climate objectives, this more than ever before.
with regard to what i call the ‘industrial leg’ of our climate policy, the circular economy, our work to close the loop is now showing real results, while creating jobs for our citizens.
prime minister, we have also injected sustainability into our trade agreements.
these deals send a clear message in support of open and fair, sustainable and rules-based trade.
sustainability for finns is part of who you are, and it must be the same for the european union if we are to have any kind of future at all.
prime minister, i really want to wish lots of energy and strength to your work of having the rotating presidency.
do not doubt that we will work with you, shoulder to shoulder, for a sustainable europe.
the first sentence of the finnish presidency's programme says a lot about its ambition: strengthening common values and the rule of law, building a more inclusive european union and a europe that is a leader in the fight against climate change.
he is right: sustainability must be the common denominator for all european union action.
we have to respond to the demands and fears of millions of teenagers who have taken to the streets in support of the fight against climate change.
for that reason, we call for an ambitious strategy that will enable us to implement the united nations sustainable development goals by 2030. this proposal should include a review of the european semester and the adoption of a new sustainable development pact incorporating a set of binding targets and indicators.
this new pact must be legally binding, to ensure that economic, social and ecological objectives are equally important in the decision-making process.
in this social, economic and ecological, sustainable europe to which we aspire, progress cannot benefit only a few.
the first is carbon neutrality.
you have a historic responsibility to convince, by the end of the year, the countries that are still resisting carbon neutrality.
you can count on this parliament to help you in this, provided of course that it is done in a fair way, because not all countries have the same starting point and we want a fair ecological transition.
we're counting on you and your energy.
because, on climate, we are in a new phase.
the commission's previous objectives were indeed recalled by mr katainen, but there are new objectives which were announced yesterday by the new commission president: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from minus 40% to minus 55%, a green deal within the first 100 days, a climate law, a climate bank.
you have the rotating presidency of the european union and the renew group is counting on you, your energy and your convictions to push this issue forward as never before.
as regards the budget, which is also linked to the budget, i will mention a few of the priorities of our group which i believe are broadly shared by the other groups in the majority of this european parliament: the maintenance of the budget of the common agricultural policy, which goes hand in hand with the ecological transition of this common agricultural policy.
the european parliament wants us to reach 30% as soon as possible and i think that with the new energy shown yesterday by the president of the commission, with the new objective of carbon neutrality, we must, as from this mff [multiannual financial framework], have 30% of climate-friendly expenditure and go beyond the targets already proposed by the commission, namely 25%.
we’re also happy to hear your priorities, especially the one on the climate because it is very urgent.
what we have right now on the table is far from enough to secure biodiversity and climate protection.
we need a fresh start here, including with the multiannual financial framework (mff), where a lot of money is still being put into climate—harmful subsidies.
we need a reversion here, we need to make sure that the money that we spend in the european union is put into places which will help the ecological and social transition, and there we need much more action.
you also have a strong commitment to a climate-neutral europe.
we are in favour of a realistic, feasible, affordable and socially and economically responsible climate policy which offers all technologies opportunities and, more importantly, puts technology and research at the centre.
a free offer of targets can really do nothing to contribute to the honourable objective of a climate-neutral europe.
at the same time, the other big priorities: poverty, unemployment, corruption, climate change.
only in this way can we strengthen and ensure sustainable prosperity in the future.
despite the difficult timing of the presidency, i would have liked to have had a moment to raise general issues relating to our greatest common challenge: combating climate change and also adapting to it.
finland, as the presidency, has an exceptional example of how solutions to climate change can be found in forests and fields without having to convert natural resources into museums.
we have experience in how to practice sustainable forestry and how to produce, in near-arctic conditions, the cleanest food in the world with a low carbon footprint.
i hope that – although invisible – the security and sustainable exploitation of the baltic sea is still high on your agenda.
(the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, as a new member for scotland, i congratulate prime minister rinne on putting climate change at the core of finland’s presidency programme.
given the scale of the climate emergency we face, i hope finland will push for more ambitious eu climate change measures and targets, and you have scotland’s support in doing so.
scotland is a world leader in tackling climate change and we are presently legislating for zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2045 at the latest, and for our economy to be carbon neutral by 2040. as scotland’s former climate change minister, who also represented scotland at the paris talks, i know that we are stronger and more effective by working together for a more sustainable europe.
the priorities you’ve set out in your programme, such as tackling the climate emergency, protecting the rule of law and supporting refugees from around the world, are global challenges that require strong cooperation at the multilateral level.
european values are british values ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i welcome prime minister rinne’s words on unity and sustainability.
we’ve not yet seen evidence that eu leaders have truly heard the voices of those calling for change: the school climate strikers, the extinction rebellion protesters, the millions who voted green in may.
we don’t have time to waste, and we can’t go at the pace of the slowest.
so i urge you, please, as a first step, deliver on your promise – zero carbon by 2050. get the council to put its money where its mouth is and then to increase its level of climate ambition further.
they must be returned to a safe environment where their human rights are respected.
almost every european living in a city is now exposed to air pollution at a level that is damaging to human health.
400 000 europeans are killed by air pollution every year, 40 000 in the uk alone.
there are some in this chamber who deny that this is a european issue and say that the eu should not tell member states what to do, but air pollution does not respect national borders.
one country’s pollution affects another country’s people.
yesterday i told ms von der leyen that my support for her election would depend on immediate action on the climate emergency.
mr president, air pollution is causing nothing less than a public health crisis.
new research shows that worldwide, air pollution is now killing more people than smoking, and while poor air quality affects everyone, the burden of disease is highest among the poorest.
in the towns and cities of the north-west of england – my region – more than 2 000 deaths per year can be attributed to air pollution.
so we must radically transform and implement technologies and clean energy in transport, industry and heating systems.
with an active, sustainable travel system we can improve air quality, increase the quality of life, and save lives of citizens across all of europe.
mr president, as a british liberal democrat, i was elected to keep britain in the european union, and one of my main reasons for wanting to be here is to help protect our shared environment.
every market town, every small town has a junction or a road where the locals know that air pollution is out of control.
the commission has also published a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
european union funds have been provided to address the dire consequences of climate change, in particular in terms of food security, and to promote the creation of jobs, along with the opening of our markets.
(applause)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on russia, notably the situation of environmental activists and ukrainian political prisoners (2019/2734(rsp)).
and most of all, we must cry out against the oppression of well-intentioned people protesting against environmental crimes, for it is they, not those who suppress them, who correctly discern which are the greatest threats to peace and survival.
– madam president, thank you so much for this opportunity to discuss the human-rights situation in russia and, in particular, the situation of both illegally detained ukrainians and environmental activists.
the overall environment for human-rights and civil-society activists in russia is characterised by restriction on fundamental freedoms.
at a time of international awareness of climate issues, violent assaults on individual environmental activists, such as andrei rudomakha and his colleagues, and the judicial harassment of others, such as the non—governmental organisation eco-defence, are deeply troubling.
i conclude by reaffirming our strong commitment to, and support for, human rights and civil society, including environmental activists in russia, as well as illegally detained ukrainians in particular.
the title of the commission statement on the common position of the european union in view of the united nations climate action summit in new york should be changed to 'preparing for the climate action summit and the sustainable development goals summit in new york'.
it is not only a world heritage site, it is a vital part of the fight against climate change and we cannot leave the current situation without consequences.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
forests, covering 40% of the european union's land surface, are a precious resource for our society, environment and economy and must play a very important role in addressing the sustainability challenges ahead.
they are also affected by climate change and associated extreme events like storms or forest fires, which generate additional management challenges.
this was a very fruitful event, which had the participation of all relevant stakeholders: policymakers, administrators, researchers, forest owner representatives, the forest industry, environmental ngos and representatives of our civil society.
the conference confirmed the growing relevance and importance of forests and the forest-based sector in the context of the paris agreement, the global biodiversity targets and achieving the sdgs, while also underpinning the importance of forests for new and future-proof economic opportunities in rural areas.
forests and forest-based products are crucial for achieving carbon neutrality by 2050, by constituting carbon sinks and by substituting fossil-based materials, as proposed in the political guidelines of the president-elect.
in the last few years, forests across the european union have increasingly been subject to several extreme events such as storms, droughts and pests often seen as consequences of climate change which are responsible for great losses in the forest economy and the associated ecosystems.
the commission chairs dedicated expert groups the standing forestry committee, the coordination group for biodiversity and nature, the forest fires expert group to address these issues and facilitate regular exchange of information and good practice between member states and the commission.
for example, recent dedicated discussions have addressed the bark beetle situation in the standing forestry committee in december 2018 and guidance on fire prevention-oriented management of forested landscapes in the forest fires expert group in november 2018. forest protection and resilience will also be discussed in next week's coordination group for biodiversity and nature.
the situation is far from optimal from the point of view of climate change mitigation through harvested wood products.
in order to support forests and the forest sector's needs, the european union forest strategy achieved the alignment of the european union funding instruments in support of a commonly agreed set of objectives and priorities, building on the key principles of sustainable forest management, multifunctionality and resource efficiency.
the forest is an important climate protector in europe.
it is also important for a large sector of the economy, for recreation and for biodiversity.
so , in a nutshell , a major climate protector is in danger, probably from climate change.
some countries, including france, even continue to promote it as a fuel, even though the cultivation of palm oil is an environmental disaster and its use is three times more harmful to the climate than fossil diesel.
we also need to set clear rules for the sustainable management of these forests.
we would have much more credibility if we included binding clauses such as respect for the environment in the international free trade agreements that europe signs - as with mercosur, for example.
in fact, canada's forest resources are already ecologically disadvantaged precisely because of the enormous carbon dioxide released by the fires.
– madam president, thank you for this debate on european forests because we talk quite often about forests outside europe, but i think it’s very important to talk about the state of our forests within the eu as well, especially because forests are very crucial for climate.
they are a natural carbon sink and they are key for biodiversity – and on both matters europe is not performing well.
first of all on climate: 40% of our current renewables come from biomass and in the commission’s own impact assessment for the lulucf directive, it clearly states that we expect a decline in our sink in the future until 2030, and a decline in the sink is the same effect as higher emissions.
but also on biodiversity: the environmental assessment agency clearly states that the state of our forests is only at 25% of the favourable status in natura 2000, in protected areas.
so we expect action from the commission in its climate law to improve the natural carbon sinks and a binding biodiversity strategy for 2030 in order to improve our forests for climate and biodiversity.
– the question i had was whether there was a slight contradiction here between what we are advocating as a house, in protecting the european forests, and the european union’s policy of biodiesel and biomass in its energy complex, where we’re advocating a green policy which causes the destruction of indonesian rainforests – natural tropical rainforests – and also the loss of precious lives, of orang-utans, for example, and at the same time ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
i have to say, madam president, we sometimes think in europe that plant breeding is just a business of big multinational corporations.
madam president, after more than 30 years japan has recently resumed its outrageous practice of commercial whaling, which is in breach of international law and undermines the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
for this reason, my party colleagues and i have written a letter to the commissioner for trade questioning whether japan’s actions comply with the sustainable development chapter of the trade deal.
we must stop celebrating trade deals when they clearly betray even the best of our environmental practices.
mr president, on friday, thousands of young people will march across scotland, just as millions of others will do across the world, to demand that we, their elected politicians, implement ambitious climate action now.
as a member of the delegation to the un climate summit, we must take to it the strong message that we, across the eu, will meet the challenge laid before us and take bolder actions that will get us on track to meet the paris agreement and achieve the 1.5 degrees goal.
my country, scotland, has already declared a climate emergency.
we are taking bold and meaningful action to end our contribution to climate change and we will end that within a generation.
as a result, this parliament now has an environmental mandate that we all must act on.
the 2015 climate plans still put the world on course to warm by at least 3 degrees by the turn of the century.
the eu must commit to net zero by 2030. this means investing in a truly green new deal, which could combat poverty, inequalities and the climate crisis, so i will be taking part in friday’s global climate strike – to demand that the health of our earth is taken seriously for my son rafi, for the future of us all.
the campaign we have just launched sent a clear message to this parliament to prioritise a sustainable transition more quickly, and also to take a leading role globally on climate.
the incoming commission with ursula von der leyen has clearly stated that the climate will be a top priority, as will the world's biodiversity.
this is where we can show that we are also taking global leadership on climate and the 2030 agenda.
for us social democrats, the work towards a sustainable future (ecologically, socially and economically) is the driving force and the backbone of europe as a whole.
europe is playing a key role in climate change.
mr president, climate action, like sustainable development before it, has jumped to the center of the political discourse.
and what remains, unfortunately, is the insistence on the same policies that have compromised the possibility of development based on a sustainable relationship between man and nature.
some of those who pledge commitment to climate action, some of those who affirm solemn commitments to sustainable development, are the same ones who have opened the door to policies that sow environmental, economic and social destruction, such as those based on free trade, trade and agricultural policies that promote the offshoring of production, that destroy the weakest productive systems and that increase the flows of material and energy associated with meeting the most basic needs.
commissioner, has anyone in the commission done the math on how much the agreement just concluded with mercosur will cost in terms of greenhouse gas emissions?
let's start here, with more sustainable models of production and consumption, and stop trying to paint a system that is inherently unsustainable green.
the european union is indeed taking the lead in tackling climate change, mr president.
the new green deal to be presented by vice-president timmermans must take account of the competitiveness problems of european industry and the need to rapidly change the source of electricity it uses, with a focus on renewable energy sources.
the 'new green deal' must also be based on a new global alliance to tackle climate change.
a global alliance of interests involving states, involving regions and aiming at the new sustainable development, with a focus on financing research and new technologies.
energy-efficient buildings for all, tackling energy poverty, circularity in production and, above all, a change in the consumption model can be the basis and the pillars of the new green development.
but i think this summit is important because, unfortunately, it's not just europe that's polluting, and if we've taken important steps, we know that the globe is affected by pollution from china, from the united states... and i think that at this summit the representatives of the european institutions have to highlight this, and this summit has to end with concrete global action, and of course, my view is that the united nations has to be more involved in this.
mr president, as we’ve heard, this friday, around the world young people will spill on to the streets to demand that we all step up action to tackle the climate emergency.
we must stand in solidarity with the climate strikers, first of all.
the result has been a world facing a climate crisis and unacceptable inequality.
we therefore have a special responsibility to show leadership in achieving zero carbon and in tackling global inequality.
there’s still insufficient ambition both in this house and in our national parliaments to tackle the climate crisis.
warm words about a green new deal need to be translated into policies: no trade policy that encourages deforestation and no investment in fossil fuels; instead, public transport, zero carbon buildings, green agriculture.
we in europe need to put our money where our mouth is and take this opportunity of zero carbon transition to build the societies and economies that our children deserve.
but i’m certainly an advocate that our trade agreements in europe should be used to promote human rights, to promote liberal values, and to promote fairness and indeed protection of the environment.
people in europe are passionate about the fate of the amazon because we care about the climate crisis.
we care about biodiversity and about the lives of indigenous people under threat.
i worry that narrow economic interests will trump concern for human rights and environmental protection.
i’m not at all reassured by claims that the eu will somehow have more leverage than before over human rights and environmental protection after we sign the mercosur trade deal.
since the signing of the peace agreement, 462 community leaders and 164 environmental defenders have been killed by paramilitaries.
the eu, in coordination with member states, supports actions to help ensure that human rights defenders are protected and respected and can operate in a safe and enabling environment.
but i would like to remind us that while the peace process remains at the heart of our engagement with colombia, our relationship has deepened and broadened in recent years with the implementation of the free trade agreement, cooperation on security and defence, and on the environment, to mention just a few key areas.
there is no sustainable answer to this.
the people that you are dealing with, the empty vessels of the conservative party, have even now exited the chamber and their tormentors have absolutely no plan for a durable, sustainable future relationship.
social dumping, environmental dumping, economic dumping, right off your shores ... (loud protests from certain quarters)there is no such thing as a good brexit.
we will not oppose an extension if it is required, but we want to know until when and why, because we have no more time to waste.
but let’s not pretend that the withdrawal agreement would be sustainable without public sign—off.
that’s the only sustainable way forward.
from a security perspective, it would no longer be able to participate in joint european defence projects and would also lose access to projects such as the energy union and the digital single market.
the agreement with the council was that the final element would be presented as an amending budget during 2019, so today we complete that agreement by reinforcing two programmes which, more than any others, reflect in their outcomes the economies of scale and added value of the union budget, erasmus+ and horizon 2020. the heavily oversubscribed student programme will receive an additional eur 20 million and horizon will receive eur 80 million, which will fund research into technologies that will help address the climate emergency.
the commission is aware of the importance of the laws in question, of the need to protect the environment and of the need to protect the environment.
but today three million eu citizens in the uk face a climate of fear and uncertainty.
all eu citizens should have the possibility to lead a healthy life and acquire good health habits as those are cornerstones in the prevention of cancer: they should also have equal access to healthcare, which is one of the principles of the european pillar of social rights and supports the implementation of the sustainable development goals.
i also believe that the work that began with the european reference networks for rare diseases can pave the way to a better ecosystem for patients, with big data, artificial intelligence, universities and industry working together building big ecosystems, or maybe some health ‘collider’, especially addressing cancer.
a plan to get out of the air pollution we breathe that's making us sick.
i see a greater potential for strengthening the work with patients and their families, because it's not just cancer patients who suffer, but also their environment, family and friends.
it creates a climate of fear and uncertainty.
however, opportunists have purposely created a climate of fear in the united kingdom.
further studies in epigenetics are allowing researchers to look deeper, beyond dna, and to combine the medical data with critical information about the kind of external and environmental factors that have been mentioned here today.
madam president, this budget proposal is marked by an overall lack of resources, by wrong priorities, by a lack of resources in the social and environmental fields, in cohesion, by the increase in expenditure associated with a drift towards intervention in the external sphere, a militaristic, security drift.
we have tabled more than 80 amendments to the commission proposal with clear objectives: to promote public investment, to support the productive and strategic sectors, public services, to promote employment with rights, to combat poverty and inequalities, to promote women's rights, to protect the environment and biodiversity, to make full use of the potential of each country and each region.
climate change, social injustice, economic inequality – all require determined political and practical action.
today’s vote was one small step in the right direction, but we need an even greater commitment to research and development on climate-related activities in the future.
innovation will play a huge role in solving issues such as the climate crisis, although it cannot be our only answer.
we must also commit to immediate and decisive climate action in other areas as well.
but today, let’s celebrate investing in our future and ensure that we act decisively on climate change.
climate change is posing challenges that will require an additional three and a half billion euros.
the transition to a sustainable economy, the implementation of the european pillar of social rights and the european minimum wage, as well as the fight against climate change, must therefore be complemented by the establishment of a system to adequately finance these ambitious policies.
i regret that the council's proposed budget omits or reduces funding for areas crucial to europe's future, such as climate change, migration, the youth employment initiative, the neighbourhood instrument.
could you, mr minister, explain to your constituents why the finnish presidency of the council is willing to spend more money on digital change, on research, on climate policy, on all areas, including transport infrastructure, and why you are cutting your own draft budget?
we also expressed the need to align our employment policies more closely with the sustainable development goals and the european pillar of social rights by creating synergies to reduce inequalities and foster social dialogue, to improve productivity and worker conditions, including by increasing funding for lifelong learning and vocational training.
madam president, two of the priorities for the 2020 budget on this side of the house are the climate emergency and the future of europe’s young people.
i firmly believe that it’s not politicians, but scientists and engineers who will enable the shift to a low—carbon economy.
the pouring in, the allocation of 21% of the total proposed 2020 budget to combat climate change, which will predominantly finance expensive public policies, is an indication that we have learned nothing from the previous crisis that devastated europe and created a huge divide between the north and the south of the continent.
we need to save the planet, that's undeniable, but first and foremost by partnering with the private sector and creating a positive climate for entrepreneurship and innovation, instead of expensive publicly funded programs with questionable impacts.
this dialogue is essential if we are to build a sustainable democracy in turkey tomorrow.
the patenting of natural plant developments, in addition to allowing corporations to own knowledge, making it inaccessible to farmers, often conflicts with indigenous knowledge and the rights of indigenous people, the sustainability of local ecosystems and even the ability of nations to provide food security and to protect the global environment.
no jurisdiction in the world would ever accept this, especially from a neighbour whose stated intention, as has been repeatedly said, is to undercut the european union’s social and environmental taxation standards.
there has been talk here, and there has been a lot of talk in this period, about the battles and the politics of climate.
we are seeing their climate protests in berlin, amsterdam, london, paris and many other european cities.
i can tell you, in the run-up to the cop25 in santiago de chile, that we on the left here in the european parliament believe that a policy is necessary to combat the climate emergency decisively.
our mandate to the commission and the council is to align eu policy, now and in the future, with the un sustainable development goals and the paris agreement on climate change, without any ifs and buts.
the money raised will be used to increase the eu budget and to invest in social and ecological restructuring.
we need investment in good jobs, in the necessary digital transformation, in the fight against social inequality, in the fight against the climate emergency, and not in the eu's military build-up.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk about brexit, as it should be, but i would like to remind you that among the items on the agenda for the next european council meeting will also be the issue of climate change, precisely in the context of international agreements, a subject on which i would like to concentrate.
it is the environment council itself that has said that, with the current commitments and the current trend in greenhouse gas emissions, we will not be able to meet the commitments we made in paris.
so on the one hand, we are well aware that the fight against climate change, if it is to be effective, must be coordinated at international level, and, alas, the picture is not very reassuring.
on the other hand, we must confirm and strengthen our leadership, the european leadership that has been exercised in recent years to deal with the climate emergency.
this is an important and challenging change that we can and must achieve in a fair, inclusive, sustainable way, and i have to say, also by adjusting our production systems.
and finally, the proposal is to downgrade the political declaration and the future relationship by undercutting, in fact by making a sort of singapore at the sea, at the north sea – these 20 behind me like that – , but by in fact destroying the ecological, social and labour standards.
the second is climate action.
the summarisation of national climate action plans will help to decide what realistic targets we can set for reducing emissions.
the european fund for strategic investment is a dedicated investment support instrument with an eu budget guarantee, and it allows the bank to move to more risky investments in areas such as renewable energy, energy efficiency, but also innovation and to support smaller companies.
and third, because we have helped 30 million people to get better health services, and then we helped seven million households to get renewable energy.
honourable president, members, we have achieved a lot, but a lot more has to be done to achieve the 2030 climate and energy targets and our long-term goal of carbon-neutral europe by 2050. our investments in climate and environmental projects in the next decade will need to grow considerably.
we need up to 290 billion of additional investments per year, from energy efficiency to cleaner transport in the infrastructure.
president-elect ursula von der leyen, in her speech in this house back in july, proposed a sustainable europe investment plan under the european green deal, aiming to mobilise one trillion of investment over the next decade.
this plan will aim to make europe the first climate-neutral continent in 2050 and will broaden our strategic environmental agenda beyond climate.
furthermore, the two eu-ets funds, the innovation fund and the modernisation fund, will also contribute to the much needed mobilisation of climate investments.
support to investments will go hand in hand with our strategy for green and sustainable financing, to ensure complementarity between the commission’s regulatory and investment actions.
so, honourable president and members, today the eib is the largest multilateral provider of climate finance worldwide, committing at least 25% of its investment to climate change mitigation.
already in 2007, the eib issued the first world green bond, labelled the climate awareness bond, and in september 2018, the first sustainable awareness bond.
i’m saying that de facto, mr president, you are the european union’s climate bank.
the commission welcomes the eib announcement to achieve full alignment with the paris agreement by 2020. scaling up investments in climate action and environmental sustainability will have to go hand in hand with building up capacity and expertise of project developers, for which technical assistance and advisory services will be warranted to build up a robust pipeline of sustainable investment projects.
the commission will need to discuss with the eib and with member states, as the eib shareholders, how such an increasing financing for climate and environmental investments could be made in the most effective and efficient way, also to serve the objective of a just transition.
the commission takes the view that this increased focus on the climate and environment does not require a major institutional change.
the eib mandate is broad enough to accommodate a more ambitious, sustainable focus within the statutory mandate, combining eventually its own resources operations and operations under the backing of the eu budget.
we must act immediately and swiftly if we want to ensure a sustainable transition to a net—zero emissions economy, and if we have listened to the european voters in the election to the european parliament this spring, we have seen that european citizens are sometimes ahead of the public sphere.
according to the special eurobarometer on climate change published last month, 93% of respondents think climate change is a serious problem and 79% think it is a very serious problem.
a majority of respondents in 19 countries think climate change is one of the most serious problems facing the world today.
the accumulation of greenhouse gases has caused average temperatures to rise by almost 1 °c globally above pre—industrial levels.
that might not sound too much, and in a city like brussels today, you might think 4 degrees more isn’t such a bad idea, but our climate is fragile, very fragile, and small changes in surface temperature have a significant impact.
we should remember that the past – or present – wave of migration in the middle east, marked as it has been by human suffering and death, had its origins in drought and other climate—related problems.
since 2012, we have provided eur 150 billion of finance, supporting eur 550 billion of investment in climate action and environmental sustainability, making the eu bank group one of the world’s largest multilateral providers of finance for climate and environment projects – as a matter of fact, the largest one.
since we first set ourselves a climate action finance target in 2010, our ambition has been increasing.
in 2015, we were the driving force behind the multilateral development banks (mdb) in the paris process and at the united nations summit on the sustainable development goals.
in this context, we pledged to provide usd 100 billion for climate action projects in the five—year period to 2020. we’re delivering on that target.
indeed, since 2016, we have invested approximately usd 71 billion into climate action projects and last year alone, usd 16 billion again.
we have listened to the conclusions of the european council in june, which requested the eu bank to step up its climate action activities.
we are presently finalising our increased ambition for 2030 climate action and environmental sustainability, and our approach builds around three pillars: one, an increase in our own financing.
last year, nearly 30% of the eib’s new commitments worldwide were dedicated to climate and environmental goals.
i would like the eib to be much bolder and aim for 50% for these activities by 2025. secondly, a commitment to growing sustainable finance from billions to trillions.
by working with our public and private partners, we aim to help unlock at least eur one trillion of investment by 2030. this would include a marked increase in support for climate adaptation and resilience.
thirdly, building on our 2015 climate strategy, we will align all the eib group’s financing activities with the paris principles and goals by the end of 2020. this is extremely important because it would be counterproductive if we finance 50% not in greenwashing but in real climate projects, and then with the rest of our projects, the other 50%, we destroy exactly what we have just achieved by financing dirty stuff.
alignment with the paris agreement will determine a change in the eib group’s policies and actions, starting with a pledge to phase out energy projects that depend on fossil fuels.
the new eib energy lending policy, which is currently under discussion by the eib board, will be an important step in this regard.
with a very strong focus on energy efficiency, renewable energy, power grids and research and development, the eib believes the proposed energy lending policy is well aligned with eu priorities and funding.
this builds on our 2015 climate strategy, which committed us to mainstreaming climate change considerations in everything we do.
science tells us that transitioning to a carbon—neutral economy entails ending the use of fossil fuels as soon as possible.
thanks to our emissions performance standard, we have not supported any coal—fired power projects for almost a decade: the first mdb to do so.
in addition, we will position the eib as an incubator for climate finance and expertise to mobilise others, helping our societies and economies transform to a low—carbon level.
but we must not forget that some countries are further advanced than others on the road to a low—carbon economy, and that some areas, communities and sectors will be more deeply affected than others by this transition.
so, while stepping up our role as climate bank, we further commit to working closely with member states, the commission and parliament to ensure a just and fair transition.
it is not just about energy efficiency, energy supply and energy security; it is also about jobs and growth.
i’m confident that the eib group can greatly contribute to implementing the ambitious vision of the european green deal, thanks to our proven ability to mobilise investment and support for eu priorities on climate action and environmental sustainability.
and, as requested by vice—president timmermans yesterday before parliament, you can count on the eib to be a key partner in the implementation of the sustainable europe investment plan.
– mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the european investment bank on taking a very active stand on the sustainable finance issue, because we know what is the challenge in climate change and the circular economy.
this is what the sustainable finance initiative is trying to correct.
yes, of course, you could be very proud and you should be proud of the fact that over 20% – almost 30% – of the investments are climate-neutral and sustainable, but let’s take it the other way.
when we are using the public’s scarce resources, be it the eu budget, be investeu, be it the european investment bank, the finance should be only for sustainable, greening initiatives that turn our infrastructures in the lines of the green deal and that turn our economies to circular economy, climate-neutral and a future orientation on the logics of backcasting.
and to be fair, we need the eib's effort to improve the financing of renewable energy projects, energy efficiency projects.
mr president, i campaigned in france with the president of the republic, emmanuel macron, for the transformation of the european investment bank into a climate bank at european level.
firstly, 50% of your climate action, that means around €15 billion in loans every year, plus green infrastructure, renewable energy, building insulation, very concrete things for european citizens and businesses.
so it is very important that in the commitments you are going to make, in the decisions you are going to make in the coming days, you can guarantee to the countries that have the most transition needs, and particularly in central europe, that greening the eib, making the eib the european climate bank, does not mean more financing in the west and less financing in central europe, it means on the contrary perhaps more financing in central europe and eastern europe, because that is where the needs are the most acute, and that is how we will take the whole continent for the good of europeans and the planet.
– mr president, first of all, the full support of the greens to make from the eib a climate bank.
but we are getting a bit concerned if the commission is saying: well, you are already a climate bank.
this is totally inconsistent with your own plans for sustainable investment for the future.
this is totally inconsistent with your plans on a carbon-neutral economy.
the eib wants to play a role, but then we also need a commission that is serious about changing the eib into a climate bank.
and i see the commission looking surprised, but if we are looking at the first litmus test, it’s going to be the energy lending policies, and there the commission is playing a role.
for example, on gas, you are promoting an exception for low-carbon gas.
if you are serious about a climate bank, you should be serious about the energy lending policies: no financing to fossil fuels.
(applause)
mr president, we all saw the citizens of europe at the european elections come out and vote in high numbers, particularly the youth, and demanding us to combat climate change, to improve our energy efficiency and to protect our environment.
when it comes to the principles, the first thing that i need to say is: everybody needs to contribute to tackling climate change.
a study by the european commission says that when it comes to reaching our 2030 co2 emissions targets, particularly countries with lower income will be affected more.
thirdly, one-size-fits-all from the side of the eib, after you review your energy lending policy, will not work.
that’s welcome in this european parliament and i ask you for even more ambition because this european parliament has pushed for and embraced the initiative of sustainable finance for private financial institutions.
first of all, we always see sustainability as broad.
it’s not just about environmental risks, but also about social and governmental risks.
second, we urge finance institutions to do due diligence – to identify, prevent or mitigate sustainability risks.
so, my question to mr hoyer is: will you be really ambitious, set the example for the other financial institutions and become a leader in sustainable finance, defined as i just have?
mr president, i would like to welcome the proposed leading policy of the eib for energy projects, which includes extra financing for less—developed member states, a bigger focus on renewable sources, and the phase-out of fossil fuels by 2020. it is an important step forward, especially concerning member states like my home country greece, lacking in energy efficiency of buildings, but actually willing to address eu goals on tackling climate change.
the four components of the eib’s energy lending policy – unlocking energy efficiency, decarbonised energy supply, supporting innovation in new energy infrastructure and securing the enabling infrastructure – need a huge amount of investment to become everyday—life reality.
for example, energy efficiency investments in building and industry represents approximately three quarters of the total investments required in the period 2021-2030, equal to eur 281 billion per year.
so, an active transformation of the eib into a climate bank is not only the way to accelerate addressing our climate goals.
it is also a strong and clear message to the whole world that here in the eu, we are determined to maintain leadership on tackling climate change by creating jobs and growth.
the debate showed us that we are in agreement, that we are happy that the new commission wants to present both a strategy for green finance and an investment plan for a future europe, and that we are making the european investment bank even stronger as a climate bank with a new name.
we have learned a lot from juncker plan i, efsi 1, efsi 2 and now eu-invest, where we are already mobilising €1 200 billion private and public money by 2027, with more than €330 billion for achieving sustainable goals and climate objectives.
despite 16% of the equity, the british economy only gets 8% of the loans and now we learn the eib is going to risk half its lending on the eu’s green agenda, the biggest transfer of wealth to the climate industrial complex.
adopting the proposal in its original form would effectively turn the eib into the real eu climate bank.
not only would the eib become the first public international financial institution aligned with the paris agreement, such an unprecedented move would also stimulate the much—needed energy transition in central and eastern europe, where governments are resistant to this change.
colleagues, the climate emergency is already here.
we cannot and will not tolerate leaders who treat climate protection as a secondary issue and i was proud, therefore, to have joined more than 7 million other people in 150 countries on 20 september as part of the global strike for the climate.
mr president, the european investment bank has energy and transport sectors which account for a very significant part of its investment portfolio.
this gives the eib a relevant role in financing projects that can promote environmental sustainability and the fight against climate change.
more investment is needed in areas such as energy efficiency, renewable energy, multimodal, low-emission public transport systems, among others, but more is needed.
mr president, in the eastern mediterranean, and in the mediterranean in general, the effects of climate change are already evident.
we therefore support the commitment to the paris agreement and the european union's policy of clean energy for all, with renewable energy sources.
especially for isolated and island states such as cyprus, natural gas will have direct effects in reducing environmental pollution compared to other fuels such as oil.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's energy policy is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
mr president, we hear a great deal about the environmental and ecology credentials of the european union.
this eu ecowarrior myth has become so dominant among the remain-minded that i wouldn’t be surprised if commission representatives were not among the climate emergency mob blockading london streets.
if we are serious about making climate protection and achieving our un 2030 sustainability goals a top policy objective, then we will need state aid in all countries.
finally, it is evident that there can be no effective conflict resolution or sustainable peace in syria without accountability for the crimes committed.
these factories run counter to all current thinking on animal welfare, human health and environmental protection.
we will not let brexit wreck our economy, damage our nhs or pollute our environment.
we can see the positive results of these investments across the union and they will continue to foster convergence and support transition towards a sustainable agriculture.
one of the key challenges of our time is climate change.
we already see its impact on our environment and it is set only to worsen if we do not step up our efforts.
the mff will be essential to this purpose, as it will cover the period leading towards the 2030 climate targets deadline.
on climate, member states seem to support the 25% mainstreaming target, even if some see it as the maximum and others as the minimum.
further to the eu’s climate target on energy transition aiming for carbon neutrality, as a presidency we see that there is the need for a fund to facilitate fair transition towards carbon neutrality.
from the presidency’s point of view, on new own resources the non-recycled plastic packaging waste proposal seems to gain the strongest support, and a positive approach from the majority of member states.
this requires a modern budget focused on eu added value, and more resources for programmes contributing, for example, to climate action, research and innovation, digital security, border management, etc.
let me now address the issue of climate change and parliament’s call for a more ambitious quantified target in relation to climate—related expenditure.
the commission is committed to delivering on the paris agreement on climate change and to making the union lead by example on the global stage.
that’s why we have proposed to set ourselves a high objective and to dedicate 25% of the overall next eu long-term budget, or approximately eur 320 billion, to projects contributing to climate action.
the target of 25% is based on our experience and on our bottom—up assessment of how much each and every spending programme can actually contribute to climate action.
some programmes and funds will contribute significantly to climate action.
for instance, the climate objective of those programmes that already contribute to climate action could be increased.
in practice, this would require mostly much higher targets within the common agricultural policy, the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund because of their critical mass in the budget or, in relative terms, the overall share of the budget allocated to programmes that don’t contribute to climate action could be decreased.
we consider the commission's proposal to be inadequate and the council's position to be unacceptable, not only as regards the size of the budget, where parliament is calling for a more ambitious budget to tackle the climate crisis, to strengthen the social agenda, employment and the shift from austerity to sustainable development, but also as regards the internal allocation of these funds.
because it is provocative, unfair and irrational to increase, as mr hahn has admitted, by 22 times the amount of money spent on defence and cut back on the common agricultural policy and cohesion, and not give the money needed to achieve the ambitious targets we have set for tackling the climate crisis.
because we have a climate just now of intolerance across the world and in the eu.
madam president, let me quote: ‘employees are leaving left, right and centre, being suspended and sacked at every opportunity, it’s an awful environment to work in.
so the two biggest issues of our time, the climate emergency and brexit, played a part.
now, tackling climate change will involve new patterns of travel and different types of holiday: overland travel and more stay-cations will have to replace the existing model.
– can i ask ms rowett what empirical proof she has that low-cost airlines in particular affect the climate.
– low-cost airlines don’t adequately measure the effect of aviation on the climate, so it’s low-cost ones that are particularly encouraging more flights than we can afford in this climate crisis.
and i’m not proposing that we should have no holidays, i’m proposing that we should have adequate transport that is affordable, and not making the climate fry.
it has stated the need to review a strategy for tourism which is updated, which takes account of digitalisation, as has been mentioned here, but which also takes account of climate change and the new challenges facing this sector, which is so important for the various member states of europe, but for the european destination as a whole.
we must ensure we create the right environment to support this changing industry while protecting the beautiful destinations of europe from ruin, threatened by mass tourism.
we must fight anti-semitism and racism in a comprehensive, educational and sustainable way, and not only on the internet.
if you have any influence in any sense, to be in politics in the 21st century is to be in the collective war room of humanity against environmental catastrophe.
so let me say this as clearly as possible: climate justice is empty without social justice.
i salute the climate strikers skipping school to save school, the extinction rebels disrupting indifference, and the countless young activists like isra hirsi and xiye bastida who are proving no one is ever too small to make a difference.
we have talked about own resources and, of course, we have mentioned taxes as solutions to own resources: a carbon tax, a plastic tax.
today, taxation is increasingly burdensome, always under the same pretext: the ecological pretext.
but what is the coherence, on the one hand, of having trade agreements that lower customs duties, of multiplying free trade agreements with the whole world with countries that do not respect any of our environmental standards and, at the same time, adding an extra layer to the tax mixture, which will both weigh on the global competitiveness of our european companies and deal a severe blow to the purchasing power of our fellow citizens?
the debate on the multiannual financial framework is a toss-up between numbers and how to achieve the ambitious climate targets, and some of the heads of state and government themselves seem to be at a loss.
but cows and sheep get eu standards, whereas people get potentially lower british standards – on workers’ rights, consumer rights, environmental protection – no level playing field.
other well, that's a waste of... what we have not done is act in our own well-defined interest to keep these two countries in our territory, to recognize the work they've done, and to stand by our word.
there is a risk of divergence on everything from workers’ rights to environmental standards, to taxation, due to the decision to scrap the level playing field from the withdrawal agreement and place that in the political declaration.
it weakens workers’ rights, it slashes and burns environmental rules, and it will hold back people whose communities have already suffered generations of governments abandoning them.
so, while all eyes in the uk are currently on westminster, i want to say something loud and clear here in strasbourg: i will not give up on workers, on our environment, or on those likely to be worst affected by this dangerous deal.
madam president, jean-claude, i have looked back and in these five years we have been through at least 15 very serious crises: the refugee crisis; the euro crisis; the greek crisis or grexit; the russian invasion of ukraine; fake news; the diesel crisis; the climate crisis and the paris summit; terrorist attacks; the rise of populism; the crisis of the rule of law in some countries of the european union; the crisis of the legitimacy of the institutions with the failure of the spitzenkandidat; the demographic crisis; the trade war between the united states and china; brexit - brexit is the worst of the national-populist decisions, because no one is more lost than the one who does not know where it is going - the nationalist coup d'état in spain - populism is trying to break up europe, also starting with my country.
both themes affect the union's credibility, our ability to act as a global actor in an increasingly turbulent foreign policy environment.
we have to face the challenges of migration, climate change and the digital agenda.
i, too, believe it’s been a waste of time and energy, and i agree with so many of you that things should not be artificially rushed now.
we know the aim of the brexiteers is to undermine social and environmental standards, so hard won, not to increase them.
we cannot accept cuts in funding for regional and social cohesion, for job creation for young people, for technological innovation, for horizon 2020, for tackling the climate crisis.
but those who voted in the european elections, especially the young people with their increased participation, they want more and better europe, with better jobs, with technological innovation, with tackling the environmental crisis, they want a europe that is a pioneer in technology, in the environment, but also supportive of the farmer and the countries of the east that have joined the european union and the countries of the european south, they do not want more austerity and more cuts.
the carbon footprint is staggering, avoidable and flies in the face of wisdom.
that is why we need, on the one hand, a sustainable, common european asylum system for the future.
a much better procedure for dealing with the council’s secretiveness is for us to highlight individual examples of how the council wastes money: exotic meetings in exotic locations for the ministers when they don’t have much to discuss, and many other ways that they waste money and this is not the moment to express them.
the next item is the topical debate on climate and ecological emergency.
i hope that the climate emergency is also felt by the commission representatives, who i hope will join us as soon as possible.
these are just a few of the stark conclusions that the intergovernmental panel on climate change of the united nations presented in its latest report this september.
the phrases ‘climate change’, ‘climate crisis’ and ‘climate emergency’ have been echoing through our streets and cities, and in this parliament too.
we’ve had enough of empty rhetoric from those who say that they believe that climate change has to be addressed as a matter of urgency, but then duck out when push comes to shove, when the real binding measures that can make a difference are negotiated.
we are calling for a new approach on how to address the climate emergency we are facing, because a climate emergency it is.
that’s why we want to start working now on a long-term economic, social and environmental plan with ambitious legislative proposals backed by sufficient financial investments and proper enforcement.
to act on climate we need the money to finance the required transition as early as next year.
achieving carbon neutrality requires a revolutionary transformation that has the potential to create new jobs, ensure our industrial competitiveness, enhance resilience, and improve air quality and human health.
the socialists and democrats are calling for an ambitious plan for deep de-carbonisation, shifting subsidies from fossil fuels to support clean technologies, ensuring clean energy production, safeguarding our biodiversity, developing a new sustainable agricultural model that can also avoid food shortages, having in place afforestation and reforestation plans, preserving water resources and investing in new technologies that address water scarcity, renovating our building stock and ensuring the new energy-efficient building stock, and, importantly, having in place a strong just transition fund that ensures economic, environmental and social progress, leaving no one behind.
we are calling for ocean-based climate action, which could deliver up to 21% of the emission reductions needed by 2015, further investments into developing ocean based renewable energy, de-carbonising marine transport through energy efficiency and alternative fuels, and restoring and protecting marine ecosystems and ocean-based food sources.
climate change is a direct and existential threat that spares no country.
the world is already witnessing multiple devastating impacts of climate change.
stepping up global action is therefore more urgent than ever in light of the latest scientific data, especially the intergovernmental panel on climate change’s special report on global warming of 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels.
scientific evidence shows that human-induced global warming has already reached 1°c above pre—industrial levels and is rising at 0.2°c per decade.
without stepping up international climate action, the global average temperature increase could reach 2°c soon after 2060 and continue to rise afterwards.
in addition, climate change is increasingly contributing to the deterioration of global biodiversity, water resources and ecosystems.
it is a positive sign that there is increasing knowledge, awareness and concern about climate change and its effects on the world at large.
while human-induced climate change is caused by the way in which our societies have produced and consumed goods during the industrial age up to the present day, the engagement of the young people of today is vital if we want to implement those changes that will ensure that the planet will be fit to live in for future generations.
the climate action summit last month was another welcome initiative to mobilise and boost the political will to step up collective efforts in line with the paris agreement.
it is that shared awareness and collective will to effect change among governments, businesses and society as a whole that is needed in order to bring about the kind of paradigm shift and transformations of economies and societies that are needed to avert catastrophic climate change.
it continues to successfully decouple its economic growth from its emissions.
from 1990 to 2017 the eu’s economy grew by 58%, while total greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 22%.
the eu is set to overachieve its target for greenhouse gas reductions by 2020. it also has a complete package of legislation in place to ensure that it will reach its target for 2030 and thus also deliver its contribution to the paris agreement.
to this end, as is required of all parties, the eu will submit a long-term strategy for greenhouse gas emissions reductions with the united nations framework convention on climate change by 2020. with a view to preparing the european union’s long-term strategy, the council has been discussing since november last year how to achieve climate neutrality in line with the paris agreement, based on the commission’s strategic long—term vision – a clean planet for all.
the scale of the economic and societal transformations needed in order to achieve climate neutrality in the eu will require efforts from all sectors of the economy.
most member states agree with the objective of climate neutrality in the eu by 2050 and several member states have already set national targets contributing to that goal.
we are continuing to work towards an agreement that all member states can sign up to and look forward to the european council finalising its guidance on the eu’s climate neutral vision before the end of 2019.
member of the commission.
the new parliament and the new commission, which is due to be set up shortly, have - and rightly so - made sustainability, climate protection and environmental protection a priority.
we are not at the beginning of the europeanisation of sustainability and climate policy and the development of common rules, standards and funding instruments.
in a european single market, a union, the europeanisation of sustainability and climate protection makes a lot of sense.
we have a proven tool for this, the ets the emissions trading system , which allows us to think about and decide on reductions on a regular basis, but which allows us to develop, in a non-bureaucratic and market-based way, about 50% of our emissions in a targeted way by 2020, 2030 and towards climate neutrality by 2050. the eec works for the energy industry and for industry.
i think it might be interesting for a new commission and for a new parliament to discuss whether the eec could not be extended in a market economy to transport and transport emissions, transport and even to buildings and heating, heating, cooling and electricity consumption.
we are relying on advanced technologies that accelerate energy efficiency, capture emissions and make a significant contribution.
thirdly, we have a 40% reduction target, and with the measures decided on in the old parliament - in the clean energy package, in the mobility package - we can achieve a 40% reduction target, or even 45% in 2030, according to our calculations.
since europe is responsible for only about 9% of all global greenhouse gases and their emissions, a trade agreement with other partners and joint emission reductions make a lot of sense.
never has europe been more in demand than today, when we can guarantee investment protection through exports and imports with singapore, australia, new zealand, vietnam, mexico, mercosur, and then also make sustainability and climate protection important subjects of a trade agreement for us and for our contractual partners.
it will be necessary to examine whether to impose carbon prices in the form of duties or taxes on imports into the european union, if necessary, in order to avoid the shifting of co2 emissions and to allow for fair competition.
the new budgetary framework currently being moderated by the president, which is slowly bringing us closer to the target, provides for 25% of all investment, of all expenditure, to be devoted to climate protection.
this means that of the 160 billion euros a year, at least 40 billion euros are allocated to programmes - 40% for one programme, 60% for the second programme, and 0% for some programmes because they are not linked to environmental and climate protection.
– madam president, it’s clear that tackling climate change is one of the biggest challenges of our time, and quite rightly so; as has already been mentioned, it’s one of the key priorities of the new commission.
in this debate i’m quite sure we will see those who, in a matter of speaking, will show their middle finger to the next generation, telling them that climate change doesn’t exist and refusing to take measures.
therefore, the epp group believes that there should be a third way: a way that tackles climate change but that takes people along; that doesn’t put the burden on the shoulders of those who can least afford it; and that leaves no region behind.
in the view of the epp, we shouldn’t only have a green deal or only have a european climate law, but also a strong industrial strategy to make sure that we have the cleanest, the most innovative industry that actually keeps jobs for those generations in the future who will need it.
if we’re talking about sustainability in three regards – sustainability that, yes, indeed is environmental and tackles climate change, but that is also social and economical – we need to have a strong industry to make sure that we can also deliver on climate change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my group knows that no institution, no legislator, no government can remain on the sidelines of the climate change disaster which is already causing so much suffering.
but it's the young people, our children, who consider that this is an urgent problem, that this is a real crisis -- a climate crisis -- and that's why they go out every friday to demand that we act.
on a finite planet, we consume too many resources and have too much waste.
in some productive sectors, we waste 98 percent of what we produce.
how are we not going to be able to rationalize and make a system of production and consumption much more reasonable, with a circular economy system that changes the paradigm from recycling to prevention, with the bio-economy, that knows that everything everything we use, all our natural resources must be conserved and protected in any production system, designing different, green cities, where 70% of citizens live and working on a decarbonization, on a zero carbon in our economy... to do that we need to include all sectors.
that's why the new york climate summit was important.
– madam president, my thanks to everyone for putting this topic on the agenda under the title ‘climate and ecological emergency’.
this is about our future, but this is also about opportunities as a european continent to really change our economy in a way that delivers on climate neutrality but also creates new jobs.
all the reports are out there and still the council is struggling to agree on climate neutrality.
the agriculture sector is an important sector that can deliver on climate action, but i’m challenging my colleagues then to deliver, not only in speeches here but also in making sure that the agriculture reform is going to be a truly green reform and not again just subsidising the bigger farms.
and the last point on trades: let’s also make sure our trade agreements are in line with climate, so stop with these voluntary sustainability chapters but make them binding so that we are also really pushing this agenda internationally with the urgency that this matter deserves.
i am not going to say that it is surprising, but i will say that it is at least frustrating whenever we hear about tackling climate change and this urgency.
we ask him to tell us what the priorities are and he tells us about the carbon market, he tells us about trade agreements, he tells us about everything that has brought us to this catastrophe and that we are not able to respond to.
we cannot combat the urgency of climate change, mr oettinger, with green economy measures that do not challenge the system, that have no public investment plans, that do not want a real energy conversion, that do not really want to work for environmental and social justice.
to address this urgency, i want to bring a further topic to the table, soil, because climate change and fighting climate change cannot be done without soil protection.
i know that the commission has announced a biodiversity strategy and i hope that this strategy will focus on the issue of soil protection, which contains as much as a quarter of biodiversity.
i therefore ask the commission to set a target of neutrality in relation to land degradation by 2030, because without adequate soil protection we will not be able to combat climate change and to do this we need a holistic policy, which counters intensive farming, monoculture and uncontrolled and unregulated building.
we are debating today a climate emergency, and that is exactly what it is about.
we see scientists report after report, scientific study after scientific study, showing that we need much more leadership from the eu and the rest of the world if we are going to deal with the climate change that is required.
we therefore call for the eu to set a more ambitious target for 2030 and to reduce emissions by at least 55%, not the current 40%.
they're counteracting the climate change that's required.
shipping must be brought under climate legislation with ambitious targets.
the airline doesn't just have to pay 15 percent of its emissions.
it's a climate emergency.
and i am surprised, commissioner oettinger, that you are giving us the outgoing commission's report as a roadmap for the climate action emergency.
the commission's proposal for a common agricultural policy is making us increase the greenhouse effect, making us increase the loss of biodiversity, when we should be doing the exact opposite.
you support free trade agreements which are climate-destroying, which also contribute to the destruction of biodiversity.
let's spend billions of euros on the climate.
we can do something about the climate.
we have a big problem and we should actually declare a climate and biodiversity emergency.
the climate crisis threatens billions of people, animals and plants, and we will have to take action on all fronts, on all fronts.
how is it possible, then, that europe is spending billions on environmentally unfriendly and climate-damaging subsidies for the livestock industry?
livestock farming emits more greenhouse gases worldwide than all the cars, boats, trains, and planes combined!
how is it possible, then, that the proposed climate commissioner timmermans continues to deny the need for fewer animals in the livestock industry?
how are we going to meet the climate goals if we continue to spare the livestock industry?
the cost of global action on climate change can be cut in half if we eat a little less meat, if we consume a little less dairy, and if we skip fish and eat a little more plant-based food.
madam president, all the debates on climate change speak of the apocalyptic consequences if we don’t drastically change our energy sources and lifestyles.
the same alarmism was present at the 1988 toronto summit, which compared climate change to nuclear war.
there is, frankly, more credibility with the theories such as sunspots, the milankovitch cycle and orbital variations than there is with anthropogenic warming, but by far the biggest impact of climate policies is on energy costs, living standards and the economy.
these policies replace the enormous tax revenues generated from fossil fuels, with taxpayer subsidies for rent-seeking renewable companies that generate no tax receipts to fund public services.
over the past few months alone, over six million people worldwide have marched and demonstrated to ask policymakers like us to listen, to take action on the climate emergency, and to protect the natural world.
how we choose to act now, and the choices we make about protecting our environment, will determine the future of humankind on this planet for the next 10 000 years.
we must ensure that the commission’s proposals for legislation over the next months reflect the ecological emergency and the climate chaos that our children, our grandchildren and future generations are facing.
madam president, the changes brought about by man's action in the environment are causing extreme phenomena to occur more and more frequently.
forecasts predict climate migrations, flooding in coastal areas... reversing this threat requires addressing global climate objectives and spinning up domestic action.
at local and regional level, battles such as mobility or waste are won and, from proximity, it is easier to make people aware of the impact of including the principle of sustainability in everyday life.
that is why i propose that the fight against climate change be a horizontal axis in the budgets of all public institutions, that the energy they contract be 100% renewable and that this climate and environmental axis be a key in the presentation and accountability.
madam president, tackling climate change also means taking care of our land and soils.
but for that, the soil has to be healthy and alive, because a whole world of microorganisms, fungi, bacteria, insects and worms can live underground if, and only if, we don't destroy that ecosystem with chemicals and over-exploitation of that soil.
so yes, we need an ecological transition in agriculture to restore natural balances and thus fight climate change.
healthy soils, like air and water, are essential for life, biodiversity and the fight against global warming.
(mike's speech begins) ... europe has finally enforced the paris climate agreement, it's important that we lead the world in emissions trading and plastic bans, it's necessary that we do much more, for example in research, through hydrogen initiatives, through plastic export bans and much more.
this is the global climate problem.
let us cooperate wisely and for our mutual benefit economically with these countries, so that we can also have an environmental impact on them.
a green deal also takes advantage of people's and businesses' self-interest in a sustainable environment.
climate action must also be allowed to make money, to save money.
climate action has to be fun, too, and then the smart deal is a really good deal.
madam president, we have ten years left to try and avoid environmental and ecological breakdown.
i’ll say: i was one of the people who got my local council to be the first in london to declare a climate emergency and have plotted a course and a timetable to get to carbon neutrality by 2030. and we will do the same to ensure the london assembly and the uk government deliver on their commitments.
i’d also like to say: and i was one of those who persuaded the eu to end fossil fuel subsidies, put a tax on aviation and helped ensure the eu got to carbon neutrality by 2030 and used its influence to get other nations to do the same.
on page 168 you state that the transactions from the eu commission’s climate department, which manages a budget of eur 864 million, were not audited because we did not sample any transactions in the area of climate action in 2018. we have no audit results.
let’s consider goals, like some examples of paying for flights for staff to jamaica on a pollution budget.
in our thinking, universal health coverage is a sustainable investment.
mr president, the un high level political declaration on universal health care is a significant step towards achieving the sustainable development goal.
sustainable development goal 3.8 is to 'achieve universal health coverage, including protection from economic risks, access to quality and essential health care services, and safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all'.
we denounce the climate of impunity and the absence of a credible investigation, the refusal of the egyptian authorities to provide italy with the documents and information necessary for a prompt, transparent and impartial investigation, in line with international obligations.
the climate strikes, led by greta thunberg and involving millions of children, are the clearest example of children uniting to make their voices heard, and they are right.
the challenges of climate change will have a huge impact on our children, and we in this parliament have a duty to listen and to respond to their concerns, to do everything possible to ensure that they are not the generation who inherit a depleted and declining world.
and there is simply overproduction in the world, a fact that is primarily due to the fact that some non-european countries have unfair practices and are systematically violating climate goals, climate standards, but also labor laws, because there are no unions.
on industrial policy, we are working with our international partners to reduce global steel over-capacity; we are also putting a lot of money with the new instruments, under the new mff, but also in the current one, to innovate and for our steel sector to become more sustainable.
let me also mention that the new commission has announced the carbon border adjustment tax.
the european union has always been accompanying these efforts, these steps, different stages, and will continue to do so with all the energy and the resources it can mobilise.
so hoping and working, rather accompanying the un work for a settlement, making clear that cyprus’ sovereignty and sovereign rights have to be respected and that the european union will always react in a united manner to defend them, and always inviting our turkish counterparts to de-escalate and work in a different kind of environment.
here in this parliament, exxon mobil are still licenced to lobby despite their proven climate change denial record.
facilitating emissions-heavy travel has to stop.
we must reverse the incentives, promote small-scale traditional farming and restore biodiversity.
– i repeat what i said before, that we need a common and sustainable solution.
well the past five years have shown that whatever comes our way – migration, climate change, terrorism – can only succeed if we work together in unity and trust.
mr president, coming from scotland, which has already declared a climate emergency, i support calls for this parliament to declare a climate and environmental emergency in europe.
but in doing so, it is absolutely essential that we commit to taking bolder and urgent climate action in response to the deteriorating situation.
i would urge the commission to ensure that its plans for a new european climate law and a green deal recognise the urgency and scale of the climate emergency that we face, and have at their heart the well—being of people and planet, because we must also ensure that the transition to net zero is just and fair and leaves no one behind.
we need all countries across the eu and beyond to step up to the plate and to come to glasgow next year with serious climate commitments.
europe is in full compliance with the paris targets with regard to emissions trading, energy saving and renewable energy development, and this is already on the basis of 40% co2.
that's why i'm in favor of taking climate goals more seriously.
first, great credit is due to the juncker commission and especially commissioner arias cañete on giving leadership in paris and bringing the clean energy package through the last parliament.
climate change is certainly a very important issue, although it is not yet a disaster, but it can certainly happen if we do not take concrete action.
i also support increasing the funds for these purposes, because only with new technologies, new ways of working and using energy will we be able to reduce emissions, because i do not believe that we are prepared to change our way of life so much that this could also significantly contribute to reducing energy consumption.
i ask the commission, however, to what extent these climate objectives are taken into account when we conclude trade agreements with countries outside the european union?
the public control of the energy sector must be opposed to private energy monopolies if we want it to operate in a sustainable way, combining social and environmental concerns.
the unsustainable patterns of production and consumption must be countered by the fight against consumerism and the waste associated with it.
mr president, there’s no climate emergency in this place – just a lot of hot air.
if you were serious, you would show real leadership by stopping the senseless pollution caused by transporting this parliament between brussels and strasbourg 12 times a year.
by 2050, the environmental impact of this will be 600 000 tonnes of co2 emissions.
when will this parliament end such hypocrisy over the environment?
speaker after speaker says that the lives of our children, our planet and our existence are at risk, but we’re not prepared to end our own pollution by stopping this stupid twin—parliament structure of strasbourg and brussels.
we see climate change every day, the effects of it, when we look at floods, fires, whether it's in venice or in the slovenian island of piran.
it's easy to declare a climate emergency, but we have to do a lot more.
what are we going to do about energy?
how are we going to provide low-carbon energy?
mr president, climate change is the single most important issue today.
for them, the existential threat of climate change is already here: storm surges, saltwater intrusion and coastal destruction have resulted in failing crops, water shortages and an uncertain future – contributing, in turn, to migration.
i was proud to sign the green new deal pledge and join millions of people all over the world in the global climate strike.
what we’re seeing here, in this climate change debate, is all rationality disappearing and climate alarmism basically becoming a belief system: it’s moving out of the scientific realm into a more humanistic or religious realm.
the key points of climate change are the following.
– mr president, the heads of state and government are going to meet in brussels right after the madrid climate summit.
as it stands right now, not a single one of the european union member states has submitted a national greenhouse gas reduction plan that would be adequate or in any way sufficient in order to reach the paris agreement targets.
a stable climate is not just a nice thing to have, it’s absolutely vital in order to have a liveable planet for the younger generation and also for future generations.
and also, if we’re lagging behind, as we’re doing right now, we’re also losing out on technologies, on climate jobs that, right now, our competitors elsewhere in the world are developing.
it is time to act and the member states need to finally agree on the climate neutrality target of 2050. but, let’s be clear, and let’s keep in mind that that is not a very ambitious target.
that means that we should have a multiannual financial framework (mff) that invests in renewable energies and in ecological agriculture and not, as it is foreseen at present, in agricultural mass production and in fossil fuels.
but on the income side we also need to be sustainable.
a plastics tax or a carbon border adjustment tax is not just a revenue; it can really be a means of how to shape policies and make sure that we have policies that protect the environment and support a fair transition.
so, i wish the best of luck to the finnish presidency and really hope that all the groups here can contribute by urging governments to actually play their role and say yes to climate neutrality, yes to an ambitious mff and not just continue with business as usual.
but unfortunately, i think the same monster of senseless waste is there.
they want to provide an additional eur 500 million for climate policy projects.
the eib is now to become the climate bank.
the ecb is supposed to be conducting a climate-friendly monetary policy, when it is not even able to normalize the interest rate level.
the european central bank is not responsible for industrial and environmental policy, i beg you!
climate change is a top priority, important indeed and we would miss something else, it is a fundamental issue.
it should be remembered, however, that european emissions are 9% of global emissions and that this is therefore an important battle on a global scale, otherwise it would be very limited in the very small context of our continent.
when you talk about a series of considerations on the mff theme and say: we are not reducing cohesion policies, we are not reducing agricultural resources, we are imagining that we are going to increase climate change policies to an exorbitant extent for a large environmental programme, and we are hearing a lot of good things that are not reflected in reality, and that make us think that the next council in december will be yet another occasion in which we will hear more statements of principle than concrete facts.
mr president, the december meeting of the council will take place in a changed environment, with president charles michel at the helm of the european council, but also hopefully with the new commission very clear as to what the priorities for the next term should be, and this house more pluralistic and more assertive.
and among the people i mean also migrants: i mean the british expats after brexit, those who look for asylum to gain security for the lives, refugees from war-torn areas, and climate refugees soon to come.
we see that this elusive european demos is arising spontaneously, especially among the young people in response to the climate crisis.
our role should be to facilitate the creation of a welcoming and generous space where this nascent demos will not only emerge, but will thrive and not only in response to climate emergency, but in tackling jointly other issues.
there is no better environment than the european union to construct a sustainable and flexible space to leave to the next generation a better europe.
and above all, we must put the european union's long-term climate change strategy into action if we are to achieve our goal of being the first climate-neutral continent, with a just ecological transition that leaves no one behind.
only if we work together can we build our common future and build a new europe that is more feminist, more ecological, more social and more just.
as greens, we know that the climate emergency is a far greater crisis facing us, which is why we are determined that this should be a climate election.
yesterday, the world meteorological organization revealed that global greenhouse gas emissions reached a new high last year.
setting a net—zero carbon target of 2050 is totally inadequate and flies in the face of both the science and what our children are demanding of us.
aiming for 2050 means risking runaway climate change, a risk to citizens’ lives that we must not take.
leaving it too late to achieve carbon neutrality could literally mean the difference between life and death for millions of people.
when your grandchildren ask you, ‘what did you do in the climate emergency?’, you had better make sure you have a good answer.
if you want to debate the forthcoming council meeting today and the focus is always on climate, i would argue that this could be a kind of misunderstanding, especially in view of the major problems that exist here in europe.
there is something happening again on the climate issue: we are discussing whether new co2 taxes are coming, whether new restrictions should come and so on and so forth.
all of these are things that you could do something about for the environment immediately and effectively.
i am thinking of research and development, energy, transport and infrastructure.
advocating climate neutrality and at the same time condemning nuclear energy, as some in this hemisphere do, is absolutely inconsistent.
we cannot serve the climate change goals, which must be ambitious.
and last but not least, on the issue of climate change, i have a deep conviction that at this moment, it is not a future threat, but a sad state of affairs, that our ambitions are currently empty words.
it is impossible that the council only a month ago thought of asking the commission to draw up a concrete plan and the common eu funds allocated to that plan for the support needed to achieve the 2050 climate targets.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for the forthcoming european council calls for concrete progress on two key points: the multiannual financial framework and the fight against climate change are obviously related issues.
the union must have an ambitious road map to tackle the climate emergency, as we heard from our commissioner timmermans, but to achieve this we must allocate adequate resources without delay, so as to achieve climate neutrality quickly with investments that allow a fair transition, to create new jobs, to make our countries hydrogeologically secure.
and of course, the climate.
citizens in all corners of europe want us to do more on security, defence, protecting the external borders of the european union and people, particularly our youth, who speak united with one voice on combating climate change.
they have been our priorities for decades because they are important, but clearly we have to do more in research, innovation, climate, digitalisation and security.
i now turn to the second item on the agenda for the next council, namely climate change.
we must do everything in europe to achieve carbon neutrality.
after brexit, we account for about 7% of greenhouse gas emissions.
the climate diplomacy of the new commission and mr timmermans is therefore essential if we are to succeed in getting china and india, which alone account for more than 50% of greenhouse gas emissions, to adopt a policy that can help us win the fight against climate change.
it was jeffrey sachs who recalled this a few months ago before the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on development of the european parliament.
general commitments on climate change, which are then advanced at national level with new taxes and bureaucracy, while new emergencies are advancing that would require instead of investing in prevention to defend a territory plagued by extreme climate phenomena.
the climate crisis is not a matter for the next five years, it's a matter for the next 50 years, and it's one of these urgent matters.
fighting climate change will not be the task of one man, or even the task of one political party; it is the task of all men, all women and all political parties.
to make the fight against climate change an ideological issue, to legislate from partisan positions is to condemn the fight against climate change to failure.
the fight against climate change is being damaged by those who do not want to join the consensus and by those who exclude others from the consensus.
you're not better at fighting climate change the more alone you are.
we need a green pact that is three times sustainable: to have a sustainable climate, to have a sustainable industry and to have a sustainable society.
we need a green pact that combines our climate protection policy with our social market economy; otherwise we will lose the support of the citizens and we will be supporting the theses of the nationalists and populists.
if we do not do this, we will not protect those who are already suffering the consequences of climate change: coal producers or farmers in flood-prone areas who are rightly asking for help.
climate action is neither left nor right.
and by the way, a united kingdom separate from the european union will not be able to fight climate change on its own.
i expect you to take measures to make the objectives of the new commission in the field of climate change, migration, external border control and the budget possible.
go and open your statements to our common challenges, to europe's role in the world and to all the issues where we have seen in recent years that we are pushing our limits in the decision-making and opinion-forming process, thus reducing and jeopardising the hopes of citizens in the european union project tax policy, migration, asylum, security, research, investment, africa policy, climate and environmental protection, to name just a few.
this is what europeans expect, including young people in the streets for climate marches and civil society more generally.
we therefore want real political and financial efforts to achieve our goals and to respect the paris agreement while ensuring a just ecological transition for all.
madam president, the topic of the day is climate change and the european union budget for 2021-2027. the european council will discuss the issues in question and prepare the budget priorities.
we want to be leaders in climate change, in social policy, in justice, in the rule of law, in international aid, in education, but we also want to be leaders in gender equality and freedom and many other areas.
if we want to reduce emissions by 40% by 2030, we're going to have to find a huge amount of funding to do that.
and it will certainly not be easy, because it will require the ability to strike a balance between traditional priorities such as agriculture, cohesion policy and complex new challenges such as climate change, digitalisation, the clean energy transition.
but the most important thing is to keep the key european priority in the negotiations, which is to build a socially sustainable and safe europe for our people.
the negotiating position of this parliament is known and clear: an ambitious budget, about 1.3% of gross national income, with the right priorities to meet the challenges of the present and the future - energy transition, climate change, migration, security, defence - but without making the fatal mistake of divesting from convergence, cohesion and rural development.
the agenda, while still in principle, already contains two themes of major importance that will largely determine the framework for our work in the coming years: climate change and the multiannual financial framework.
climate change requires urgent action, i.e.
concrete measures to reverse global warming trends and to phase out carbon dioxide emissions by 2050. the projects we are already implementing, for example in the islands, through the clean energy transition programme can serve as a good example.
the huge issue of climate change and the environment has already been raised.
madam president, this morning we saw the release of yet another report bringing to light the urgency of the climate emergency, this time from the un environment programme, which shows that the world needs to ramp up its ambitions for cutting emissions fivefold in order to bring us down to the ambition of only 1.5 degree of warming.
and if there is one thing on my christmas list, it is that the european council in its meeting finally sets a united target for zero carbon and 2050 is still too late.
we have a responsibility correspondingly to fix it, too, and that starts with leadership in our own department, putting our money where our mouth is, on climate.
commissioner timmermans spoke very powerfully about climate change, our responsibilities to our children and the opportunity to be a role model to the world, and ms tuppurainen spoke of the challenges of brexit to the next eu budget and the need for some to pay more and receive less.
i think there’s a way that the council presidency and new commission can do both, and that is to take the lead, to set the example, by ending the senseless pollution caused by transporting this parliament between brussels and strasbourg 12 times a year.
by 2050 it would save over 600 000 tonnes of co2 emissions.
it would send a massive signal to europe and the world that the eu is really serious about fighting climate change.
it’s simply not sustainable to keep telling others what to do but refuse to do it ourselves.
what we’ve seen to date were the two eu climate policies of the renewable energy directive and the emissions trading scheme.
the emissions trading scheme has put a completely artificial price on carbon that has led to higher energy prices and the closure of things like british steel in the uk.
the renewable energy directive has led to perverse incentives and the creation of a new crony capitalist subsidy—seeking climate industrial complex that rivals anything that the fossil fuel companies have produced.
it’s also led to environmental damage that, for example, leads to virgin forest being been felled for things like wood chips, biomass and biodiesel for palm oil.
– i was a bit surprised to hear you express deep concern about the economic impact of climate policies and you say there was an absence of economics in the debate.
but what i can prove is that the climate policies are destroying jobs.
come up to places like hartlepool, come to scunthorpe, and you’ll see mass unemployment due to these artificially high carbon prices set by politicians and not by economists.
there is unprecedented air pollution, and there’s also a known link between poverty and mental health problems.
i just want to finish with his immortal words of defiance and hope: ‘all young people, regardless of sexual orientation or identity, deserve a safe and supportive environment in which to achieve their full potential’.
populist parties create an enabling environment for this kind of hatred.
hate crimes have risen since the uk’s 2016 eu referendum, fostered by an intolerant political climate.
i couldn’t afford the tariffs on good malt or cashmere, but i got the commissioner a tin of fine scottish ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, international trade and, more specifically, fair and rule—based trade is essential for human and sustainable development.
and looking ahead, we need a renewed, a reformed multilateral trading system, one based on shared commitment to rules, global solidarity and a commitment to ensuring that trade works towards our shared climate goals.
you have rightly prioritised the climate emergency, digitalisation and migration.
(applause)
president, the green deal is the great experiment of this commission: europe climate neutral by 2050. and i asked myself: how much does it cost?
the citizen gets higher bills energy bills, higher taxes and has to pay for them.
i see even in the netherlands that there are climate riots all over the country, from farmers, construction workers.
if i may continue: i think we should stick to nuclear energy.
this is one of the main sources of climate-friendly energy.
it costs a lot of money, and gas is a climate-friendly resource.
we have all seen the people of europe come out and vote: students, farmers, smes, people expecting more on security, expecting us to deliver more on tackling climate change.
we need to continue to invest there, but of course we need to invest in digital, climate and so on.
it is an opportunity to enhance our relationships with neighbouring continents such as africa, for example, to foster partnerships and provide cleaner and renewable energy.
one thing, for example: the climate law, next year will be the only and last chance where we can make our ambition higher before paris really starts.
we are certainly committed to combating climate change, but we must also be careful that industry is not penalized, that our agriculture is not penalized.
the silk road, the chinese hegemonic strategy, which risks putting our entire production system in danger by dumping, whether environmental, social or merely commercial, is a serious matter.
agriculture remains a fundamental instrument for protecting the environment and safeguarding employment in our european union.
so it's not a sustainable role.
we have never had a commission that is so ambitious on climate.
we recognise your priorities of climate change, economic competitiveness, migration, security and the rule of law, and you’ll find no greater ally than the uk to achieve our mutual goals in those areas.
now we’ve completed a thorough process of democratic scrutiny, i welcome the opportunity to vote for the commission today and see it get down to work on the huge issues that face our continent: climate change, trade wars, exploitation, injustice and discrimination.
you've presented and addressed the real issues that we face, from climate change, migration, digitization, health, demographic issues.
madam president, only a socially strong and responsible europe can unite the faith and trust of our citizens in the european union and be able to unite in responding to new global challenges such as migration, climate change, the transition to a clean economy and many others.
i am confident that they will act for the good of people and our planet and leave a positive mark on their areas that are crucial for the future: ensuring a welfare state and a just society, strengthening democracy, the sustainable development goals, gender equality, a new migration agreement, a fund for justice.
a great friend of slovenia, first vice-president timmermans is taking on the most important task for all generations and the planet - the fight against climate change and the just transition to a zero-carbon society.
we have fought for a progressive left-left-green alliance, for a shift towards development, solidarity, the fight against inequalities, and for putting environmental protection at the heart of all union policies.
do not sacrifice european agriculture and industry on the altar of climate policy.
instead, find the balance between sustainability and affordability.
it is also about how we move towards the eu's strategic autonomy in the international environment in the future.
i would particularly like to highlight the progressive pillars of the programme in areas such as the fight against climate change, the just energy transition, the digital transition in the service of people and the reduction of inequalities, and the attention paid to the policies of proximity, convergence and cohesion, which are the result of proposals from the s&d group.
in this climate of xenophobia, racism and intolerance towards foreigners, i’m very pleased to hear the tone of the debate today.
ensuring its sustainable development is vital if we are serious in the effort to tackle the climate change, corruption and chaos there.
it is amendment 11. it speaks about a climate emergency and we’re doing this because, after a meeting yesterday, we understood that there are groups that are willing to threaten the whole cop resolution because of that amendment, and we are responsible.
we have a resolution now that speaks about climate emergency.
i am formally requesting that my support and that of the european conservatives and reformists group for the resolution on the climate conference (cop25) in madrid be withdrawn because of the acceleration of the goal of climate neutrality by 2050 and the increase of the 2030 emission reduction target to 55%.
in addition, the parliamentary majority wants to give the green light not only to coal energy, but also to gas and nuclear energy.
because beyond this hall, people are waiting to be helped: people facing the danger of climate change, people facing the uncertainty of a changing economy, people feeling insufficient power in their own lives.
madam president, unfortunately the european union is suffering from a climate hysteria that is far from rational, and unfortunately this climate hysteria has been unfortunately reflected in the programme of the new european commission.
i cannot agree with the objectives that the european commission has set itself in the fight against climate change, i consider them to be unrealistic, unrealisable and even harmful to many european economies.
i think it's going to have an impact on the energy mix in individual countries, on their industrial structure, on employment, and it's going to be reflected in the wallets of citizens as well.
the european commission's programme is credible to me for other reasons too: it responds to the urgent challenges of our time, it does not hide the fact that climate change is happening and it wants to respond appropriately, proportionately and rationally.
madam president, as a british mep i am proud to be part of a sovereign nation that works alongside our partners in europe to tackle climate change.
throughout europe, governments and local councils have been declaring a climate emergency, but today this parliament became the first parliament in the world to declare a climate emergency across a continent.
it is imperative that we all reduce our carbon footprint in every aspect of our lives.
madam president, i have just criticized the european commission for its climate policy, and now i must commend it for its plans for the next financial period with the european budget, particularly as regards the shift of funds from the 'eating', the direct sponsorship of the common agricultural policy or the cohesion policy to the promotion of innovation, science, research and technology.
madam president, i don’t believe the resolution that we passed today to declare a climate emergency would have happened had it not been for the campaigning and the pressure of those thousands of young people in all parts of the world – those young people walking out of their schools and colleges as they did in leicester a few weeks ago, when i was pleased to join them.
madam president, i voted against the climate and environmental emergency motion because i’m really concerned at the hyped-up anti-science scaremongering that’s terrifying young people, telling them that billions will die, that there’ll be a collapse of civilisation, a lot of the rhetoric coming out of extinction rebellion and echoed in the debate over the last few days.
i think that the fact that we voted against an amendment today that said that we should be committed to bringing environmental subject back to rational discussion, and we rejected it, admits that actually we’re having an irrational discussion.
there’s no scientific evidence from the ipcc or anyone else about the extinction of humanity, and we should be very careful about claiming that anthropological climate changes cause floods and droughts, which we have been doing quite casually during the last few days.
in fact, the ipcc says that such issues are probably caused by socio-economic conditions, and we forget socio-economic conditions too much and demand, in fact, as this parliament has done, decarbonisation, which will lead to eco-austerity, massive price hikes in energy, and ordinary working people paying the cost for scaremongering and... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i’d just like to reiterate what my colleague said.
they also call it the dismal science, but when it comes to the climate emergency, i would describe the apocalyptic forecasts as nothing but science fiction.
the adoption of these policies today, and the aim of carbon neutrality by 2050, is nothing short of reckless and the most extreme example of economic illiteracy i’ve ever seen.
the fact that amendments were rejected demanding a full impact assessment shows rank indifference to the cost and practicality of aggressive climate policies.
dieter helm, professor of energy and economics at oxford university, was right when he said: ‘we should be honest that it is a huge industrial undertaking, and it will have significant cost.
this is a good day: an ambitious action programme by the european commission in parallel with the madrid climate conference.
strong climate action is the key to jobs, competitiveness and innovation, not the other way around.
it's true that we need strong energy taxes, that we need to reform carbon trading.
president, vice-president timmermans, colleagues, it is now clear that further steps are urgently needed to achieve a sustainable future.
you are indeed proposing an integrated plan that takes account of climate, economy, entrepreneurship and innovation, which is very positive.
finally, i would like to point out that europe accounts for only 10% of co2 emissions.
we can be proud: today we have an ambitious roadmap for a climate-neutral europe by 2050. but we cannot, for all our ambition, change abruptly the objectives we have already agreed upon.
in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, it is particularly important to me that not only reduction but also storage potential is used to the maximum.
i therefore welcome the fact that the new european forestry strategy should include incentives for sustainable and active forest and land management alongside a reforestation strategy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans, with my colleagues in the bureau of the socialist and democratic group, i am returning today from madrid, where the international climate conference, cop25, is taking place.
we know the determination of vice-president timmermans, the determination he has put into working on the circular economy and the fight against plastic pollution, and so we are very confident.
commissioner timmermans, you have the opportunity before you to tackle head on the three crises facing europe: the crisis of inequality, the democratic crisis and the climate crisis.
we have just 10 years to curb the worst effects of the climate crisis.
madam president, the eu’s climate policies have failed.
they have resulted in energy prices substantially higher than america, where energy costs are 80% lower than europe.
the renewable energy directive has led to perverse incentives and environmental damage caused by expensive wind farms that kill migratory birds and bats and harm our precious marine resources.
they have created a crony capitalist subsidy-seeking climate industrial complex that has now a vast lobbying base here in brussels.
biomass is the most egregious renewable that illustrates the idiocy and hypocrisy.
you gave us tougher carbon targets to try and protect us from dangerous climate change.
given the attitude of the united states, nato and the un in the role of 'pontius pilate', the complacency cultivated by the new democracy government and syriza, and even more so the euphoric government climate, is unrealistic and dangerous.
this is not the result of stupid british voters or the media or fascist racists or climate deniers.
what is preventing you from ensuring that the planning law in malta, which is also destroying the environment, is finally tackled in the area of corruption?
another year of discussions on measures to stop climate change.
let’s not forget who will suffer at the hands of climate change.
according to the 2019 climate change performance index, there is today no country on earth that is heading towards the 1.5° target.
during the cop25, the gap between the reality of our climate emergency and the pace of negotiations has been clear.
i am so convinced that the european union must not give up, but must continue on its path, implement the green deal and prove that these measures are feasible to make climate action a reality.
madam president, it’s a tragedy that 30 governments failed to reach an agreement on carbon markets at cop 25. it’s a tragedy for small island developing states, for indigenous people, for young people.
yet there is consensus that we need an energy transition, as well as nature-based solutions with a focus on oceans and forests, to balance our global climate.
the climate emergency will not go away: it will become more lethal.
and whilst i welcome the green deal proposed by the commission, i know that if we really want to address the twin crises of climate change and poverty, we must be honest about the failure of neoliberal austerity policies.
the green new deal proposed by diem25 is a far more holistic and realistic plan, which recognises the links between the climate emergency, poverty and migration.
we owe a carbon debt to low-income countries, in particular, for the loss and damage caused by climate change.
will you sell out climate change with a race to the bottom trade deal with trump or will you step up?’ the world is watching, not waiting.
we will continue to mobilise until action matches the urgency of the climate crisis.
so maybe, next year, it would be a good idea if the heads of state went to glasgow – to the cop26 – to show the importance that they give to the topic of climate protection (if indeed they do).
in light of the disappointing outcome of madrid, it’s good to see that there was an agreement on climate neutrality in 2050 at the summit.
and for those concrete actions, the discussion on the long-term budget – the mff – is the perfect opportunity, because the eu budget needs to support the climate targets and not undermine them.
right now, the proposals that we have on the table are not doing that job; they don’t match the climate talk.
there are still too many harmful subsidies that are being dished out; too little going into the protection of climate and biodiversity.
so i hope member states will start to walk the walk when it comes to climate and budget.
let’s not forget that 70% of the poles themselves are supporting that target, so i really hope the polish government will change its my mind: the later you start the transition the harder it will get, and the climate crisis does not stop at any one country’s border.
secondly, the objectives that you and mrs von der leyen have set out - on climate change, social cohesion, rural policy, technological innovation - require money.
my own political group would like to see more ambitious targets for the social agenda, for the climate, but at least.
the council, acting under the finnish presidency, is proposing, in relation to the european parliament's proposals, cuts of 13% in regional development and cohesion, 27% in investment for people and social cohesion, 25% for life, for climate, 30% in the horizon programme, 48% in the erasmus programme, 35% in the connecting europe programme.
we welcome the fact that the council has committed itself in its conclusions, despite poland's opposition, to supporting the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 in line with the paris agreement.
we are convinced that the green deal is a landmark not only for environmental protection but also for economic growth, competitiveness and the quality of life in europe.
with the conclusions, for example, on your almost unanimity on climate neutrality, but we call it the unanimity – right?
and maybe this is also something for some of the countries that are always talking about climate action and climate ambition, and one of those countries is my own –that may be climate action also means that you have to do something with money.
so maybe the netherlands, but also denmark and sweden and austria, and probably finland when they’re not president anymore, translate your ambition also into a higher budget that can help those countries to have a just transition on climate.
how are you going to make sure that the council is ready for an increased climate target 2030 before we have on 13 september in leipzig an eu-china summit?
one of the most hot political issues right now, it's the environment.
if this institution were serious about its environmental commitment, it would immediately put an end to this mad circus of moving to strasbourg for 12 weeks a year.
well, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about environmental gain.
madam president, all eyes were on eu leaders, hoping that they would commit to a climate neutrality target by 2050, but poland refused to sign up and that’s not unanimity, even if the council tries to call it so.
we in the uk now have a serious risk to workers’ rights and environmental protections, to parliamentary scrutiny of trade deals, and therefore a risk – again – of the possibility of a no-deal brexit at the end of next year.
this parliament, elected on proportional representation, demonstrates all that can be achieved by nations working together in cooperation, representing citizens against global corporate business interests and confronting the global challenges of climate breakdown, social injustice and the ecological crisis.
there is no labor crisis, there is no economic crisis, there is no migration crisis, there is only the climate crisis.
well, let's talk about the climate crisis, which you described last time in strasbourg as an emergency.
it almost feels like they're doing another episode of the fast and the furious, but it's not an honest majority of people who are committed to climate change.
you were very disappointed with the madrid climate summit.
and what is the ecological footprint of that climate summit?
next year is the climate summit in glasgow, and then in the next few months there are interim summits in vancouver, durban, cali, kazan, edinburgh, kyoto and so on.
the difference is that the co2 emissions of the formula 1 race are much lower than those of the climate summit.
formula one wants to be climate neutral even by 2030. that's quite an accomplishment.
so i call on the climate change assemblies in this room: stop with these expensive conferences that cost 100 million each, and take an example of the climate performance of formula one.
our duty now is to concentrate on our common future, and that means to negotiate with the united kingdom sound and friendly economic and political future relations that can serve our common interests and that can safeguard the integrity of the single market and our high levels of environmental, social and labour protection.
i know that european institutions are concerned that the uk will try to undermine standards on workers’ rights and environmental protection and we share those concerns.
we will try in the uk to do all we can to maintain those crucial workers’ rights and environmental protections.
we need a sustainable, realistic transformation to address the climate challenges.
commissioner vestager said it well this week: technology is not a nice extra to tackle climate challenges, technology is essential.
i encourage all – all – true europeans to ... (the president cut off the speaker)(interjection from mr monteith: ‘freedom!’)
madam president, after the failure of the cop 25 in madrid, europe seems to be one of the few places willing to undertake the fight against climate change.
the czech republic is willing to do our part for the climate, but we will need help.
equally, while a green investment plan is a nice idea, without the private sector these funds would certainly not meet the needs of industrialised countries, such as the czech republic, slovakia and other countries in the region, which face a far greater challenge to meet the climate goals while maintaining their economies.
madam president, well i see the european parliament has already started to cut its emissions: there’s more people in the gallery than in the chamber, and you lot are actually supposed to believe in this project.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the climate of hatred fostered by the polish authorities towards the lgbti community and the attitude of those who justify violent verbal and physical attacks is unacceptable.
mr president, it seems that we are faced with a dilemma here: either free trade or environmental protection.
ultra-liberals believe that climate change is not true, or that climate change is not caused by human action, so any free trade agreement, with or without precautions, is welcome.
the manual greens believe that any trade agreement is a license to do what you think is right, without prejudice to what happens to the environment, and cite bolsonaro as an obvious example.
what we have to do is to harmonize environmental protection with the opening up of frontiers.
that is, to go to sustainable development.
the agreement says that all environmental agreements are respected, that the paris agreement must be implemented, that illegal deforestation is condemned and that member countries are obliged to carry out substantial reforestation.
i would therefore like to reiterate that my group is in favour of the mercosur agreement, believing that the mercosur agreement respects the commitment we have to honour in the european green deal on environmental protection.
the green deal means we show that we are serious about a sustainable future.
is our trade policy consistent with our climate goals?
but not all trade is good trade, and so—called free trade has hidden social and ecological costs.
we all pay the price for destruction of forests and for climate change.
minister tuppurainen, commissioner hogan, you both mentioned the trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapter.
commissioner hogan, you also referred to the commitment on article 5, but it could not be clearer that president bolsonaro frankly does not give a toss about the amazon or about the climate.
we need evidence of concrete change and improvement and also evidence from our side that trade policy is compatible with our climate and biodiversity goals.
european citizens and young people around the world who look to european leadership on the environment were promised a radical green deal.
commissioner, our leverage is strongest before we sign any deal, and the paris climate targets have to be more important than the prospect of brazilian beef on our supermarket shelves.
europe exports its values through trade, and we must use new trade agreements to guarantee that strong environmental legislation, democratic safeguards and good law and governance are respected.
if we mean what we say about wanting to prioritise climate targets, then it is high time that we followed words with action.
trade can be a force for good, but in the time it’s taken to negotiate this deal, the climate emergency has become urgent, and that must now be our priority.
such behaviour is set against a backdrop of an increasingly repressive environment in iran, which has seen human rights defenders, independent media, lawyers and online activists targeted for speaking out about what is happening in the country.
– madam president, 2020 will be marked by a line-up of important milestones in regard to gender equality, such as: the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration and platform for action; the 5th anniversary of the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development; the 20th anniversary of the un security council resolution on women, peace and security; and lastly, the renewal of the eu strategic engagement for gender equality 2016-2019. in february, we will indeed celebrate the international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation (fgm).
a long-term strategy for eliminating gender-based discrimination and ensuring long-term sustainable cultural change must be explored.
multiple pressures, including climate change, are contributing to the erosion of livelihoods in burkina faso and indeed eu agricultural policy is part of the problem, with subsidised milk powder eroding the foundations of the local dairy industry.