the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
i don't subscribe to the climate of self-congratulation and self-praise.
the areas we must deal with are certainly culture, environmental protection, and the promotion of employment.
the first is environmental protection.
the commission's proposal is to support the longterm unemployed, to support our young people who are looking for work and, at the same time, to provide them with the tools for training and retraining so that they can cope in the new globalised environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, and so on the environment, and more.
we have made very specific proposals, mr langen, which you almost denounce, to strengthen the fight against poverty, to tackle climate change, to increase transparency, to combat tax fraud.
as an elected representative of the greek people, i consider that i have no right to tolerate and consent to the implementation of this extravagant waste of european taxpayers' money by the european union, which has condemned my countrymen to austerity and misery.
we want an answer because it is also important where the radioactive waste will be stored.
i would therefore say that the arrangements for countries wishing to move forward are again institutionally provided for as differentiated integration and therefore it is now a matter of political choice which countries should take advantage of this and whether they want to take advantage of this issue to move forward with cooperation on social or environmental matters.
those who foster a climate of hatred, violence and division among citizens will inevitably be treated as equal members of society.
this is absolutely a key part, including with regard to climate change.
climate change: i agree that we have to find a sustainable solution, including so that people can live with the solutions.
the low price of the solar energy is a key solution for that.
mr president, guy verhofstadt has already left – he’s so busy – so i will jump to ms keller’s speech on climate change.
i have worked a lot on climate-change issues, including at a personal level.
i have made a promise that my family will be carbon neutral at the end of next year.
i have solar panels at my home, i have an electric car, i have reduced consumption and i have planted trees, so that the end result is carbon neutrality.
we have to lower emissions, and continue on that path, and we also have to increase carbon sinks.
there is proof that the finnish way, a sustainable way, of managing and using the forest is the best way to handle forest, and that also has my strong support.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
today, humanity and support for the less able and environmental ethics are winning.
in the face of increasing natural disasters due to climate change or inadequate preparation by national authorities, we are not just observers, but we are responding forcefully.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardized by the introduction of new technologies, and that the protection of the environment is not jeopardized by the introduction of new technologies.
the earthquakes in italy, which also killed people, and the major fires in sweden, which made the northern member states realize that climate change is not just a threat to the south, and that we need a european auxiliary force to support the efforts of the member states.
mr president, natural disasters are unfortunately on the agenda in the european union because of the 'nature' of climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water resources of the community are not used for the production of waste water.
on this basis, we should also look at how to reuse water resources, because there is a huge limitation on water resources, and climate change is exacerbating the problem.
their reuse must contribute to the development of agriculture, the protection of the environment and the promotion of public health.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's water resources are not used for the production of waste water.
madam president, sustainable development will either be people-centred or it will not exist at all.
in fact, the report promotes the selective management of state funds for the directed waste of this public money on industries, businesses and specific interests, undermining institutions and authorities, for the benefit of a few powerful economic centers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the council to adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the energy performance of buildings.
it is clear that we must stop deforestation, rely on efforts that actually enhance environmental conditions that ensure that we address the problems of climate change.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the criticisms of erdogan contained in the european union's reports are characterised by the role of strategic partner they attribute to turkey, taking photographs of the euro-european arrangement in the aegean for co-exploitation, as well as a bipartisan plan in cyprus to share the energy pie.
their goal is to control the energy of a country rich in natural resources.
so we have no accessible, structured environment, nor an extended scope of the directive.
secondly, because pollution, as you know, knows no borders, knows no borders, and that is why we must insist that the international rules on transnational pollution be even more demanding on the part of the european union.
and yet, with the directions it gives, it shapes the climate.
to have sustainable growth with jobs, and that means supporting youth employment.
the young people, who have now come back into the spotlight as they fight for the environment.
and we welcome the mobilisations of young people across europe for the environment, because they are sending a decisive message.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
and the key element, of course, for sustainable growth is first of all to create jobs.
if we add to this already bleak environment for freedom of speech orwellian-inspired software that will detect forbidden words, we understand that we are laying the foundations for a suppression of freedoms taken from the darkest pages of history, appropriate only to soviet regimes.
to defend the goals that greta thunberg has set, we must put more resources, as the european union, into tackling climate change.
mr president, the amendment of directive 2009/73/ec on rules for the internal market in natural gas is a key element of the european union’s energy security strategy, but allow me to say that it’s time to take some distance from russia concerning the dominant role that it plays in the supplies in the eu.
this directive, among others, forms a firm and clear regulatory framework to ensure affordable and sustainable energy for all european consumers.
this is achieved by ensuring a level playing field for those involved in the eu energy market, as well as security and predictability for the potential investors, and this is extremely important as well.
but it is not enough just to have energy security and economic and sustainable energy.
however, a firm political decision by the eu to support it will send a clear message of european determination to promote energy security in the southeast mediterranean.
beyond the ambitious plan, such as the eastmed pipeline, i should also mention the very positive development of the approval of the eur 33 million funding of the gas interconnector greece-bulgaria (igb) pipeline that will interconnect my country, greece, and bulgaria for the first time, diversifying the energy mix in the region and enhancing competition.
this is the way in which energy security becomes a reality: with a robust legal framework and strong financial support, but also firm political will.
the principles of a fair and sustainable system are simple: compulsory insurance, a guaranteed adequate pension, proportionality and stability of contributions, remuneration of benefits, support for the continuity of contributions with redistributive conditions, long-term structured saving and the creation of reserves, so that the state pension system is sustainable and dignified for citizens.
there is no doubt that whosoever denounces an act which harms the public interest, such as corruption, fraud, tax evasion, pollution of the environment, violation of nuclear safety, etc., makes a decisive contribution not only to the prevention of such illegal acts but also to the smooth functioning of the rule of law.
i also welcome the strength and focus of the three authorities on consumer protection, on environmental, social and corporate governance considerations in finance, and on financial technology.
the vote will take place on wednesday 17 april 2019.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report of ms pilar ayuso, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the transparency and sustainability of risk assessment in the food chain in the eu and amending regulation (ec) no 178/2002 [on the general food law], directive 2001/18/ec [on the deliberate release into the environment of gmos], regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 [on genetically modified food and feed], regulation (ec) no 1831/2003 [on food additives], regulation (ec) no 2065/2003 [on food additives], regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food processors] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food processors [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food processors [on food additives] regulation (ec) [on regulation (eu) no 1107/2009 [on food additives] regulation (eu) [2018/1388/1388/c/2008 [on food process[2014/a] regulation (eu) [2014/d regulation (eu) [1708/08/388/c.
so if we want europe to move forward and become stronger in political integration, stronger in political transparency, strengthened in social cohesion and do more to tackle climate change, as the 16-year-old greta thunberg asked us to do yesterday, then the european union, mr weber, must stop being a group of 28 states where the germans discuss and decide.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
as shadow rapporteur for the left group, i have contributed with our amendments to improving the commission's proposal, by reducing red tape, improving geographical coverage, involving smes more effectively, giving a stronger role to development banks and more money to tackle climate change and through investment.
mr president, mr president of the council, your country has adopted the most inspiring climate goal in the world – of achieving carbon neutrality by 2035. however, as we stand, we risk missing the targets set by the paris accord, especially in view of the latest climate events and our increasing comprehension of their nature.
finland, with its bold climate action, shows the way of the future and we really need your progressive leadership.
i therefore ask you fully to integrate the 17 sustainable development goals globally agreed by the united nations, as measured by eurostat, into the new multiannual financial framework.
it is estimated that 43% of europe's land area is covered by forests, which, in addition to the wealth of ecosystems and the useful source of renewable energy they provide, have the capacity to absorb carbon dioxide emissions.
european forests absorb 10% of these emissions.
we grew up with the fear that climate change was going to be a problem that would concern some of the next generations, and, ultimately, that generation is us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, next week the secretary-general of the united nations is expecting us in new york to present our plan for how we will stop the increase in carbon dioxide emissions by 2020 and bring them down to zero by 2050. the voice of science is united, it is clear and it has sounded the alarm.
so the response to the climate emergency requires nothing less than a radical transformation of our economy and society.
we have one last chance to make an orderly and just transition by implementing the 17 sustainable development goals and the political agenda of the paris agreement that seek to tackle climate change while also eradicating poverty and extreme inequality.
so let's do it by incorporating the 17 sustainable development goals into the multiannual financial framework and the european semester.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the collapse of thomas cook is not the only challenge to the sustainability of tourism.
we are faced with the climate crisis and the intensification of extreme weather events and also with the critical issue of security in matters where the need for respect for human rights prevails, such as the refugee issue.
it is a serious and unexpected situation requiring immediate action, but it’s not climate or ecological.
it is creating climate refugees.
this means that we need a comprehensive cross-sectoral platform full of new regulation and legislation, an action plan that will ensure climate neutrality by 2050, and at the same time not only creating millions of jobs, but saving us trillions of imported fossil fuel which of course we don’t have in europe.
finally, let me conclude again by recalling that only together in a spirit of trust and unity we can find sustainable solutions for the big issue of migration in europe.
we must not continue to waste community resources on an agreement with erdoğan which turkey is not implementing.
i say this because it shows the climate of terror that exists and is connected to this new myth that you have been selling us, the climate change myth.
there is certainly climate change, but it is part of the change that has been on the earth for millions of years.
and here i want to highlight the oxymoron and the irony of the case, that we see people, who are shouting about climate change, being the ones who have luxury cars at their disposal, traveling from end to end of the world by airplanes and don't care about what is happening in general.
we should first look at what people who talk about climate change are doing about all this.
it is not possible for them to be in the comfort of the european parliament and their own home, having a good time and talking to us about climate change, which they want to force us to believe.
because we've reached a society where everything said about climate change can't be questioned.
so let's stop this terrorism, because i'm starting to see that climate change is the new fairy tale that they're selling to bully us for the rest of our lives.
so is the pollution problem caused by the worker who has travelled by car or by air and you are burdening him with green taxes, or is it the big airline groups and the car companies of the european union, which the european union and governments subsidize with green funds?
but the truth is stubborn: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the protection of the environment presupposes a centrally planned economy, free from the profit criterion, free from exploitation, free from imperialist wars and monopolies, aimed at satisfying modern social needs, with full use of technological and scientific progress for the safety and health of the population and for the protection of the environment.
the outcome of these competitions concerns crucial areas of profitability for the large groups, such as so-called green investments, digital, energy, which are the apple of discord, while it is precisely at this time that the conditions are being formed for who will ultimately prevail and who will be left behind.
your goal is to create a safe environment for monopolies to enrich themselves with an intensity of exploitation, stagnant wages and pensions, the dismantling of the social security system, the abolition of labor rights, the drastic restriction of trade union rights and the intensification of repression.
the council's guidelines have nothing to do with protecting the environment and protecting the public interest.
the whole discussion of climate change is a sham, because the destruction of the environment is a consequence of the capitalist economy, which is driven by the pursuit of profit, as a consequence of imperialist wars.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, it is a fact that we are experiencing a serious climate crisis.
we cannot allow the climate crisis to destroy the foundations of our civilization.
– mr eppink, you refer to the cost of the green new deal by 2050. recent research and scientific evidence shows that the cost of climate inaction by 2050 will be in the trillions.
we have a very different view of the environment from you.
the leadership of frans timmermans is a guarantee for a swift, effective and just transition to a climate-secure world.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, in a few hours in this room we will be called upon to declare a climate emergency in the european union.
we do this to protect people and to recognize that the highest human right is the right to breathe and to the environment that has allowed us to evolve into the beings we are today.
this battle will be continued by climate activists, primarily indigenous peoples, who are protecting their land and protecting ourselves.
we protect forests because they protect us from overexposure to carbon dioxide.
in romania, in our country, in london and everywhere else, we're going to see more climate activists, as fewer and fewer resources are available for more and more people.
we must also set up a hotline, provide legal support and set up a mechanism for immediate response to environmental crimes.
madam president, at a time of intense competition between imperialist centres such as the european union, the united states, china and russia, and also between energy giants, the green deal is the tangible proof that climate change is being used as a pretext to give the big groups plenty of money to race against their competitors.
the real concerns of the people about environmental protection have nothing to do with the system of trade in pollutants, with waste exports, with the 'polluter pays' logic or with the logic of recycling only the problems.
capitalists and their associations are commodifying and destroying the environment for maximum profit.
that's why they're taxing the climate.
only a centrally planned economy, free of exploitation, imperialist wars and monopolies, can meet modern social needs and ensure the life and health of the population and the protection of the environment.
madam president, the 'fair taxation' issue is part of the fierce debates on taxing monopolies in third countries that compete with european union companies, it is trade wars for control of highly profitable sectors of the economy, such as the digital economy, energy, so-called 'green investments'.
to refuse to accept the waste of human life, as well as to rebel against corruption and exploitation.
witness the murderous inaction of daredevil far-right governments who are forming a new black international against our effort to prevent climate catastrophe.
i have also witnessed the european commission's agonizing effort to defend the environmental and political integrity of the paris agreement.
ladies and gentlemen, if there is one thing i have learned in madrid, it is that we have a duty to lead the fight for a humane world with climate justice and climate security.
we must lead by example, by implementing the green deal for climate neutrality in our own home.