the union must not waste time, because while we are sweeten our political map and finance, the world does not rest.
the programme is intended for four policy areas for which the following amounts of investment are envisaged: sustainable infrastructure (up to eur 11,5 billion), research, innovation and digitalisation (up to eur 11,25 billion), small and medium-sized enterprises (up to eur 11,25 billion) and social investment and skills (up to eur 4 billion).
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of the union in the union's climate and energy policy.
i believe that investeu will contribute to improving the competitiveness and sustainability of the union's economic growth and to the integration of the union's capital markets.
when we discussed the adriatic, my position as rapporteur was that we need not a one-size-fits-all solution that blindly favors industry or environmentalists, but sustainable regulation based on proven solutions and scientific research.
these problems are likely to worsen, mainly due to climate change.
it seeks to extend the lifecycle of water, turning a waste product into a resource and is fully in line with the circular economy concept that this commission is actively promoting.
the objective is to facilitate the uptake of water reuse for agricultural irrigation wherever this is relevant, wherever this is safe and wherever this is cost effective, in order to alleviate water stress whilst preserving the health of consumers and protecting the environment.
water is our most valuable resource, and it's under pressure, both from human activities and climate change.
it is therefore necessary to link waste water treatment and reuse within the framework of the implementation of union policies, such as the circular economy policy.
the deliberate reuse of treated wastewater has an inevitable impact on our environment.
climate impacts are beginning to have a stronger impact on our environment and the increased stress caused by increasing droughts is particularly reflected in agricultural production which can benefit most from the smart use of treated wastewater, especially on our islands.
the increase in demand each year, together with the effects of climate change and the resulting increase in average temperatures, is a wake-up call as the number of areas facing water scarcity could increase.
this is why i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on minimum requirements for water reuse, because eu legislation, in particular the water framework directive (2000/60/ec), has developed a plan for the reuse of municipal waste water as additional measures for efficient water management.
on the other hand, i must pay particular attention to the question of environmental protection.
despite the adoption of my amendments calling on bosnia and herzegovina to bring the operation of the refinery in bosanski brod in line with environmental protection standards, there is still no progress and the citizens of slavonski brod are suffering the consequences.
we expect bosnia and herzegovina, as a signatory to international environmental conventions, to start complying with their provisions.
in this sense, the social climate must be permanently changed and be encouraging for women to develop in any area they want.
therefore, in an oral question, we asked the commission to explain what it has done to support quality research, what it plans to do with regard to future research, how much funding it plans to allocate to research in this area under the ninth framework programme horizon europe, and whether the commission considers that the regulatory environment in the european union supports quality research on medical cannabis.
i am also partly sceptical about the need to pool funds, but of course i support this report because the fact is that we are planning to fight climate change, the fact is that we want a more social europe, the fact is that we want more investment in the environment and, of course, we want more jobs.
pollution across borders.
in croatia we have specific cross-border pollution from bosnia and herzegovina.
the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one.
emissions from buildings for heating and cooling, emissions from power plants, emissions from industry are also very high.
i think they're going to have to change the directive at the very least to align it with the new energy laws that we passed this year and at the very least in terms of measuring reporting on air pollution.
the slovak republic has fulfilled its role and made technical changes to reverse the flow and to this day, even this winter, we supply ukraine through our transit pipeline towards ukraine in order to guarantee their energy security.
statistics show that around 90% of europeans live in cities exposed to levels of air pollution considered harmful to human health.
the world health organisation and the european environment agency (eea) estimate that about 400 000 premature deaths attributable to air pollution occur in the eu every year.
5. air pollution has a local, regional, national and cross-border dimension and requires action by all levels of governance, which i strongly believe will be improved because we have no other alternatives.
the commission has also been working on a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
mr president, the question is not whether we should fight financial crime, tax evasion and tax avoidance, but how to do so most effectively, without distorting the investment climate and creating an overly repressive environment that encourages a grey economy.
simplifying tax systems rather than harmonising them at eu level would be much more beneficial, as, in addition to making fraud more difficult, it would have a positive impact on economic growth, job creation and the investment climate in europe.
i would like to take this opportunity, madam president, first of all, as shadow rapporteur for the acer regulation, to thank mr petersen for the excellent cooperation and negotiating skills that have resulted in the fact that, of course, the ambitions we had for acer have not been realised, but acer is nevertheless sufficiently strengthened to actually be able to effectively implement the energy policy of the european union through the whole energy union package.
energy poverty is therefore an obligation for member states to implement these directives.
active participation of citizens in energy production is also something they have to do.
the integrated climate and energy packages already show that there are risks in how member states will successfully implement the very regulations and directives we are discussing today.
it is an important proposal because road transport is responsible for 27% of final energy consumption in the european union and 20% of the european union’s total greenhouse gas emissions.
in fact, we estimate that an updated labelling scheme could save annually as much as 129 petajoules (pj) of fuel by 2030, or savings of 10 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year – the equivalent of removing almost 4 million passenger cars from european union roads.
let me start by congratulating the rapporteur and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) on the progress made in parliament.
i am also pleased that the report supports the commission proposal as regards the inclusion of tyres in the product registration database established for energy labelling.
secondly, abrasion of tyres is the major source of microplastics in the environment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as road transport consumes about 25% of one quarter of total energy consumption, and tyres account for about 10% of that consumption, we are actually talking about a few percent of total energy consumption and it is important to work on this.
today we will vote on the final completion of the energy union of the electricity grid.
as a member of the committee on regional development and as a representative from croatia, i support a new approach, better-defined objectives and a future orientation with stronger support for sustainable and environmentally friendly solutions.
mr. chairman, studies have shown that changing the time of the hour, which is caused by seasons and seasons, has had a negative impact on health, on transport, on the energy system, on agriculture, and that is why i am advocating today to abolish the change of time.
of course, new challenges are now facing not only the member states but also these candidate and acceding countries, such as environmental challenges, energy efficiency or migration, so it is important that we provide sufficient budgetary resources to respond to new challenges as well.
however, such a future is becoming increasingly uncertain given the political climate in the european union, the internal challenges facing the union and the upcoming european union elections.
if we've produced eight billion tons of plastic in 65 years, and if we've produced six billion tons of waste, then we really have to think about that fact.
also, the fact that 85 percent of marine plastic pollution, half of which comes from single-use products and a quarter from fishing gear, is also something to think about, and i hope we'll find alternative solutions.
even though our share of the pollution is relatively limited, our change of economic model has a global impact, and it will also change economic models elsewhere.
the size of our economy is such that, if we change our economy and create a more sustainable economy, it will have an impact on the economies of other parts of the world.
plastic pollution is something that is felt across the board and by many countries and many regions.
in just 65 years, more than eight billion tons of plastic and more than six billion tons of waste have been produced.
plastics account for 85 percent of marine pollution, half of which is single-use plastic, and so i think that's where we need to take the first step, as this report i voted for says.
i am pleased to be here today to discuss the quality of the water our citizens use, given that according to a new study by the european union environment agency, only 40% of europe's rivers, lakes, estuaries and coastal waters meet the environmental standards set by the european water directive.
it is therefore clear that most member states need to make additional efforts to meet the objectives of the directive to ensure sufficient quantities of quality water for the environment and for human needs in the future.
the current directive has been in force for 20 years without major changes, and i therefore welcome the efforts of rapporteur michel dantin and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to align drinking water quality standards with the latest health data and to adapt the legislative framework to better respond to new challenges such as increasingly frequent and prolonged droughts caused by climate change.
but for the protection system to work, we need to create a social environment where the sacrifice of whistleblowers is valued and the institutions act transparently and professionally on the information they have provided.
madam president, i am a strong advocate of ensuring a high level of workers' rights and creating a social climate in which it will be normal for those rights to be respected.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the union's policies on the environment and the environment.
we need jobs that combine digitizing the economy, tackling climate change, and through the circular economy, education and retraining.
we're already experiencing the effects of climate change.
and it would be right to rigorously examine and reject those who do not commit themselves to the social, climate, digital challenge, but also to the migratory perspective, which must be changed to prevent it from being possible to criminalize those who save lives at sea - as has been done with the captain of the sea watch - or that the european union is not up to its humanitarian action to prevent actions to return to unsafe countries such as libya - where a refugee camp has been bombed with a criminal balance of forty fatalities.
the new government of the new democracy in greece, on the ground laid by syriza, is accelerating its deeper involvement in the imperialist plans whose monopolies are destroying energy sources.
the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the people of europe are not left behind by the imperialist plans, but are able to become masters of the energy wealth through relations of friendship, solidarity and common struggle.
but on a range of issues, from tax and trade to climate and protecting life in our countryside, there is a gulf between your views and the green agenda for change.
for that reason, of course, we have to keep in mind that pollution knows no boundaries and that climate change knows no boundaries either.
mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that it has been two years since the report on the sustainable development goals (sdgs) that i was rapporteur for passed this parliament.
it’s the only realistic scenario to deliver on the targets and to create a sustainable future.
to be the world leader in the fight against climate change, not to be second or third, but the first, the world leader.
and to do that, we, as the european parliament, as the representatives of the european citizens, are asking for a significant increase in the 2020 budget, and 2021-2027 budget, to fight climate change, to alternative energy sources, but at the same time to create smart, new, green jobs for investing in new technology.
in july 2016, the 27 agreed that it would be a mistake to focus all our energy on brexit.
so i want to say this to make it clear to everyone, ladies and gentlemen, to everyone, that the level of ambition of a future free trade agreement that we will have to negotiate and conclude with the united kingdom in any event, that level of ambition will clearly depend on the guarantees that we will have put on paper together in social, environmental, competition or state aid matters.
it’s good to repeat that this parliament will never accept an agreement with the uk whereby britain can have all the advantages of free trade and zero tariffs and not be aligned with our ecological, health and social standards in the future.
this is the case, for example, with the european union's commitment to an intolerable policy of fiscal, social and environmental dumping.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
we live in a time of great demographic, technological, but also climate change.
so, at a time when a global crisis seems to be brewing, the best way to protect european citizens is to provide the european union with a real budget, an offensive political budget, which is also capable of responding to the challenges we face, particularly in relation to climate change.
the populist cowardly cynics are, to me, those who delay, denounce investment as waste, block and refuse to recognise the value of research and education, climate targets and investment, land-based agriculture and social cohesion, external border protection and security, defence, foreign policy, energy policy.
in november 2018, this plenary, in its resolution on parliament's position with a view to the next financial framework, was clear and approved the creation of a financing line for sustainable tourism and, to this end, asked the commission to immediately come forward with a legislative proposal, a concrete proposal, as proof of respect and recognition of this sector.
let's make sustainable tourism a priority.
the fact is that the political climate has changed, the fact is that my political group, the european people's party, is the one that has made health a high priority for the european union itself, and i think that in this sense we all need to make a concerted effort to do our utmost to define at european level an action plan and strategy to combat rare diseases.
turkey, china, russia, saudi arabia are investing energy and resources in the balkans and we are taking steps backwards not by facilitating the stability of that region, which is fundamental to the stability of the whole of europe.
we welcomed mr barnier’s idea of the level playing field, preventing the uk from undercutting the single market and its standards on environment, workers’ rights and tax.
policies are needed that respond to the demographic, technological and climate changes we are witnessing.
the european union is facing a number of challenges, including climate change, technological developments, migration and new geopolitical challenges.
madam president, climate and ecology are not only the issues of the future but absolutely the issues of the present.
a common, sustainable, green plan is urgently needed.
we need a new europe which can reconcile, on the one hand, the protection of the environment and nature and, on the other, of course, the desire for economic growth and development.
ladies and gentlemen, time is running out, and that is why we need to make a just transition with the help of the eu budget, but we can only do so with the help of an environmentally-oriented budget for the period 21-27 because the cost of electric vehicles, organic farming or alternative energy sources should not be paid by our citizens, artisans, farmers, but above all by the environmentally-oriented budget of the european union.
the countries that want to become members must be evaluated solely on the basis of their performance and not on the basis of the political climate in individual member states, even the largest countries of the european union.
i myself, in my capacity as a rapporteur for the renewable energy file, met a huge delegation who came here to europe last year in relation to palm oil.
if you look at the border zone now that once divided germany, where hundreds of people lost their lives trying to cross looking for freedom, often also being assisted by other people who helped them, this area is now a major production area, safeguarding climate and biodiversity for the future generations and becoming a symbol of hope.
and so society has a special role to play in protecting the best interests of the child, but also in creating a positive environment in which every child will be able to develop as a whole person.
this includes additional investment in nurseries, kindergartens, schools, education and health institutions, but the family environment largely determines the environment in which a child develops and therefore parents need to be helped first, especially in the most vulnerable first months and years of life.
the challenges that we face are to embrace the balkan states, to give them a future, not to divide but to unite, to guarantee security and prosperity and of course a favourable environment for the citizens.
mr president, the improvised camp vučjak, just 6 kilometres from the croatian border, on the site of a former waste dump, has directly contributed to a significant deterioration of the humanitarian situation.
on the climate issue, i fully support the view that europe should play a central role in efforts to reduce the climate risk.
let me also say that if climate is the key priority, it should be fully respected in our financial plans.
i don't know how much we are to blame for everything that is happening around us, for these temperatures, for the situation in venice, for climate change, but i do know that we are the last generation that has time to remedy this situation, that we are the ones who must take responsibility.
of course, agricultural policy is important, cohesion policy is important for less developed countries, but i am asking that at least 25% of the budget does finance the fight against climate change and digitalisation.
one is a fund that enables energy transition to clean energy sources and the other is a fund for remediating the damage of elementary disasters because they're already happening.
the modern challenges - demographic, technological, climate change - that we are witnessing must be adequately recognised in the european budget.
by strengthening key programmes such as research, innovation, investment in infrastructure, but also environmental protection or the fight against cancer, we are also working to bridge new priorities.
climate change and weather extremes are indeed a reality and are having increasingly severe consequences for the economy and for the lives of the member states of the european union as a whole.
a union that risks to fail in the face of the climate crisis, thereby risking the livelihood of the younger generation and future generations.
but it’s also a union with a great potential to be the front-runner for climate protection, to be the place of innovation and for visionaries; the continent that would stand up for its values and for human rights, be it at home or in the world.
will you be able to meet the challenges of the environmental, social and democratic crisis that we do have in europe right now?
how, for example, is the commission going to deliver an ambitious climate-protection programme if there is no will to change the agricultural and the trade policy?
we need an ambitious agenda, and without a deep reform of the agricultural policy and of the trade agenda, any climate policy must remain half-hearted.
but we are willing to work with the commission in order to strengthen european democracy and human rights; in order to tackle the climate crisis and to foster european integration.
colleagues, it is time for us to act: climate cannot wait, social inequality cannot wait to be resolved.
the issue of cutting emissions should not be included in the argument of environmental extremism, but we should try to put some firm points in the field.
9% of global emissions are produced in europe, over 40% between the us and china.
environmental protection does not require flowery promises, but an ambitious policy to limit global warming to 1.5°c and to reduce co2 emissions by 70% by 2030. the tax evasion of large corporations is not stopped by referring to the oecd, but by imposing effective corporate taxes and closing tax havens.
is climate change destroying italy?
fourthly, the issue of climate change.
you said, we have to make this sustainable, we have to bring all the aspects together.
i want to focus on three key words: sustainability, inclusiveness, social justice.
we must therefore aim decisively and unambiguously at socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable development as the only asset today to boost economic competitiveness, create new quality jobs and preserve the planet, leaving no one behind.
this will require a new approach to economic governance that is growth-oriented, not only by revising criteria and benchmarks but also by incorporating social and environmental sustainability from the european semester onwards.
i truly do hope that you and your new college do bring a new energy to the european union.
you can also count on the support of a large part of the european conservatives and reformists group if you maintain the principle of a single market without protectionism, the levelling of the quality of life across the european union, if environmental policy does not weigh on the global competitiveness of european businesses.
the interests of multinationals, mr president, are diametrically opposed to the interests of people, animals, nature and the environment.
we see this in the energy transition, for example, and we see it in the authorisation of harmful pesticides and gmos.
and then there is the proposed climate commissioner, mr timmermans, who denies that a reduction in the livestock industry is necessary to combat climate change, when this is already an undeniable fact.
it is disappointing that the ambitions of this commission are totally inadequate to solve the biodiversity and climate crises.
we are talking about climate sustainability.
the fact is that eurasia is a region where the key interests of the world's geopolitical players intersect, where more than 70% of the world's population lives, where 75% of the world's energy reserves are located.
i take it that the paris climate agreement is just a piece of paper that we're discussing, but it means practically nothing to us, and if we can demand its enforcement, we don't do it?
as far as common policies are concerned, we have a common agricultural policy, an environmental policy, a monetary policy in the form of the eurozone, and so on.
mr president, this is indeed a very important, extremely important issue, which speaks to the sustainability of the ecosystem and to the importance of pollinators.
and i am really astonished, but almost admired, by the right-wing colleagues who enthusiastically explain to us that, thanks to this agreement, mr bolsonaro will miraculously transform himself into a defender of the environment and indigenous peoples.
firstly, because the increase in export quotas for soybeans, ethanol, beef, poultry and sugar alone represents the equivalent of 9 million tonnes of greenhouse gases.
the climate extremes that we've heard about recently, at least we who are members of the environment committee, by the ipcc, we're told that climate extremes that were once expected every 100 years, can now be expected every year.
until when will this hubris of the human race be replaced by humility and respect for our environment and nature?