the following agenda item is the debate on the report of the joint undertaking on the development of fusion energy and iter (2018/2222 (ini)) by mr marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (a8-0393/2018)
in writing.
world energy consumption is increasing at an astonishing rate and is continuing to do so.
fifty years ago, we were consuming a third as much energy as we do today, and the international energy agency predicts that demand will grow another 30 percent in the next 20 years, so we have no choice but to make arrangements for sustained capacity expansion.
we need to bring in more and more new sources of energy, while our current consumption is not sustainable.
one such solution is to release the energy of nuclear fusion.
rice cultivation also benefits the environment and land use.
it is good that this report also focuses on issues that will significantly improve the quality of life of citizens, and let me give you a few examples, such as the very serious and increasingly urgent need to address the need for european energy supply and the need to accelerate decarbonisation.
the prospect of a new dynamism in european integration in the face of major global economic, social and environmental challenges is today threatened by the rise of anti-eu nationalism and populism in europe, even on the part of some member state governments and leaders.
as rapporteur for the european disability strategy 2010-2020 on the mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities, i already drew attention in 2001 to the need to strengthen anti-discrimination and access provisions in the use of the structural funds and to use the european funds to improve accessibility of goods, services and the built environment.
face challenges such as globalization and climate change.
young people protesting climate change.
the smart villages concept aims to provide a sustainable framework at eu level by extending the benefits of technology to rural areas.
unfortunately, while the eu is setting long-term goals, programmes and resources for climate action together with the european council , these same member states and often the private sector are not unanimous in their support for a sustainable transition.
i support a real and smart sustainability pact that puts young people and working people, smart and sustainable technology, innovation, the circular economy at the centre.
i propose that we start the next phase of smart villages immediately, and along with the initiative, we end the very high subsidies for fossil fuels and we put that money into renewable energy.
i also think it is right to introduce a climate test for the next multiannual financial cycle.
– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for this strategic ini report which serves as an input from the parliament ahead of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) summit of september 2019, and also as a reaction to the recent commission reflection paper.
we need a real paradigm shift, mainstreaming, and concrete tangible actions, targets and deadlines, including a robust sustainability proofing, consistent indicators and an effective monitoring framework.
the proposal for the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund highlights the key role of these two funds in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, developing digital infrastructure networks, promoting sustainable multimodal mobility, improving the living conditions of disadvantaged groups (such as roma communities), to name just a few areas where significant progress can be made with the erdf and the cohesion fund.
we cannot allow citizens to be blind to the eu's resources; to let brussels' aid become a symbol of waste; to let money be stolen by mafia structures, perhaps also there, driven by politicians.
as has been said, if we can restore the trust of european citizens in tap water, we can radically reduce the demand for bottled water and thus radically reduce the generation of waste.
energy union integration is a success story.
the commission has also been active in the field of energy efficiency, with a particular focus on the energy sector.
hungarian freshwater fish farmers have been waiting for this breakthrough for many years, especially in recognition of the fact that they produce high-quality, healthy fish food and provide important environmental and nature conservation services through their fish farms that support diverse wildlife.
a lot of things have been said already: migration, climate, rule of law.
a second question: i come from the northernmost part of europe and i would like to remind you that climate crisis has some of the most dramatic consequences in the arctic circle and europe.
we need a european industrial policy with a target, as there is for environmental policy, 20% of gross domestic product must come from manufacturing, industry and agriculture.
by 2050, we will have two and a half billion africans, and if we don't act today, it's not enough to have frontex guards, we need a real strategy to invest in africa, to fight climate change, poverty, disease, to defend agriculture and to fight terrorism.
i particularly welcome, of course, the fight against climate change, which is compatible with the programme of our new commission president yesterday.
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister rinne for coming here and to congratulate him on his presidency and on the motto he picked, sustainability.
prime minister, sustainability is the key issue that is going to shape our future and you rightly say that is the case within the european union as well as beyond.
please help us to make clear that sustainability also has to be the guiding principle of our external policies: trade, development, foreign affairs and especially the international fight, against inequality.
we now move on to the rule of law: in the eastern mediterranean, states within the european union and states outside, we have been trying in recent years to build a partnership for prosperity and peace, focusing on the exploitation of energy and the role of the european union through the republic of cyprus.
energy is of vital importance to the european union itself.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of the environment.
mr president, i am pleased to see that one of the priorities of the finnish presidency is climate action.
i believe it is extremely important that the eu's climate commitments are defined and achieved in a way that does not limit the union's global competitiveness and does not contribute to the growth of emissions in third countries.
at the same time, it is important that the achievement of climate objectives is implemented in a technology neutral manner with adequate union resources behind the objectives.
the global fight against climate change and the implementation of the paris agreement by all parties is one of the greatest challenges of our time, as the impact of climate change is no longer just an economic and welfare issue, but in many cases an existential one.
the european union can be proud of its achievements and commitment to combating climate change.
and this is evidenced by our performance so far, where gdp growth has been decoupled from our carbon footprint.
but the fight against climate change is not just up to the eu, which accounts for just 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
in this context, it is particularly welcome that the mandate of the newly appointed vice-president-in-office of the european commission has placed a high priority on the conduct of international negotiations on climate change.
it's terrible to see that while young people, celebrities, and ordinary people from all over the world are fighting climate change, and the world is becoming more committed to stopping the climate catastrophe, there are still some who look the other way and are appalled that 800 football fields of rainforest are being destroyed every hour in the amazon.
it is disheartening that when we should be doing our part to fight global warming, some governments put their selfish political goals ahead of the lives of our children and grandchildren.
this happened when some middle eastern european leaders refused to commit to the 2050 carbon neutrality targets, or when, in an outrageous and cynical manner, the ruling parties did not participate in the national parliament's debate on climate change.
a politician who is a climate change nut is a death sentence.
we need to be all in on finding the tools that we can use to fight climate change, or not.
in parallel, gm feed crops have been introduced worldwide, which may affect biodiversity, contribute significantly to pesticide resistance and introduce gmos into the natural environment.
europe must face migration, wage inequalities, economic disparities and climate change, and it must come up with a solution.
i want to emphasize that global warming is a very important issue that we need to address as soon as possible.
scientific evidence shows that it's not too late to slow down climate change.
the european union needs to make a serious financial contribution to member states' spending if the eu is to become a climate-neutral economy by 2050. up to 90 percent of hungary's energy production could be climate neutral by 2030. the impact assessment also showed that the total carbon neutrality target for 2050 in hungary will cost at least eur 150 billion.
in my view, the european union should make it a priority to maintain its competitiveness, which should be in line with climate objectives.
i therefore believe that we must find a way to co-finance the costs of climate neutrality in the future in order to ensure that european operators remain competitive.
madam chair, global climate change is evident and clearly has a negative impact on the environment.
so today i want to bring an optimistic message about a complex and big challenge like climate change.
despite the turmoil in the council and the obstruction of many member states in the council, i am optimistic, madam president-in-office, that the new commission will come up with a good new green deal and a good climate law.
so we're going to need a carbon correction mechanism or a carbon tax.
we only have a few years left to take meaningful action against climate catastrophe.
representing a member state that is home to some of the poorest regions of our union, i also have to add that fighting the climate crisis has to go hand in hand with the poverty crisis, because our poorest regions are the most vulnerable to these climate-related risks.
if climate change threatens the health and livelihood of those people who are already vulnerable, escaping poverty becomes even more difficult, and this is why a just transition is the only way forward to a carbon-neutral and circular economy.
politics is shifting throughout europe and i’m very happy for my hometown, budapest, whose newly elected leaders pledged to declare climate emergency, ending years of inaction, and i applaud the ambitious climate agenda put forward by ms von der leyen.
but let’s not forget that effective climate action has to go hand in hand with a strong regional policy with more solidarity, leaving no europeans behind.
mr president, on the face of it, this dispute is over economic and energy resources.
madam president, the eu likes to see itself as an ambitious front—runner on the agenda of climate change, and indeed we are great at setting targets for the very distant future.
all these countries were basically already stating that they live the reality of a climate catastrophe and a climate emergency.
at lulucf, we have made concrete climate policy.
i think that is much more sensible than talking about symbolism while one side of this parliament is denying climate change and the other side is having symbolic debates about declaring a european climate emergency.
let's talk about what agriculture and forestry can do, how to capture more carbon, how we can do reforestation, how we can do more humus production to combat climate change, rather than having these symbolic debates that are not going to get us anywhere.
mr president, a few days ago, oxford dictionary announced the word of the year – it was ‘climate emergency’, and it reflects our reality.
all around the world, young people are on the streets telling us – politicians – to take real, meaningful action to avoid a climate emergency.
let’s vote for this resolution, declare climate emergency in europe and show to the world that the european union is the global leader in climate action and that this house is ready to treat the situation with the gravity it deserves, so that our citizens have the future they deserve.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, we're all working together to find solutions to the challenges of climate change.
when it comes to climate change, we need to think not only of the emergency but also of the opportunity.
i am convinced that the european union can only become climate neutral if it makes the most of its knowledge.
i would like to stress that thorough impact studies are needed to ensure that economic and climate objectives are not contradictory but mutually reinforcing.
and let's show by deeds, not words, that the european union is the first to tackle the challenges of climate change.
by declaring a climate emergency, i think we're giving decision-makers a sense of urgency, and what we need most now is wisdom and consideration, because if we do the wrong thing, we may end up going in the opposite direction of what we planned.
not only the minimum wage but wage differences have to be eliminated across europe; climate change and the rule of law have to be acted upon.
because at the moment we still have three member states blocking the eu’s climate neutrality target, including my own country, hungary.
i hope that we can ensure that real climate action does not fall hostage to power politics and backdoor compromises and that we can fulfil the promise of a safe and sustainable future for all.
madam president, i’m glad to see that dealing with one of the greatest global challenges, climate change, has become a top priority for the new commission.
here in the european parliament, we are also working to find solutions to the challenges of climate change as quickly as possible, which is why we have also supported the declaration of a climate emergency.
in order to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, a financial framework should be developed that takes into account the interests of citizens and does not pass on the additional costs to consumers.
the increase in energy and food prices is unacceptable and i believe that a solution based on cost-effectiveness, respecting the principle of technological neutrality and paying particular attention to supporting the poorest regions of the union is needed.
now if we are looking at the common agricultural policy, which makes up over 40% of the total budget, we can see that in contrast to the aim of enhancing the competitiveness of the european agricultural sector, this area has become a hotbed of corruption, and here my colleague has referred already to the new york times article which has demonstrated that the cap is intentionally untransparent, contains loopholes and is prone to corruption, and undermines even the eu’s environmental objectives, and every reform which is proposed is basically sabotaged by the decision—makers.
failure to deliver and take meaningful action, failure to listen to science and evidence, and failure to live up to the expectations of citizens, who demand a safe and sustainable future.
with the majority of big emitters unwilling to take climate change seriously, the eu must become an even more prominent world leader regarding climate protection, and i am aware of the criticism we receive.
commuting between two parliaments is terrible for the environment and, yes, we use way too much paper in this house but, on the global level, the european parliament is probably the most ambitious and committed institution to fight climate change.
the members of this house must be the engines of change and the ambassadors of global climate action, and we need tools to do that.
we are the last generation that can do something about climate change and climate catastrophe.
we have only time left to do that, and we have only time left to find solutions to the consequences of the climate catastrophe.
europe will lead by example and europe will lead the way in the fight against climate change.
we need to take the strength to fight from the people, from the young people, who are fighting for their future, the millions across europe, against climate change.
i welcome the agreement reached by the leaders of the european union's member states to make europe carbon neutral by 2050. i think we need to establish some very important principles before we can move forward.
the most important of these is that it is not people, but the biggest polluting corporations and the biggest polluting countries that pay the price for climate protection.
the costs incurred should not be passed on to families, so the new rules should not lead to higher energy, food and fuel prices.
it should also be taken into account that the principle of technological neutrality is essential to drastically reduce co2 emissions.
finally, i would like to emphasize that hungary is not only demonstrating its commitment to climate protection with words but also with actions, as it has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions by 37 percent since 1990.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2).