we must ensure that we safeguard the highest standards for the health of our eu citizens, the environment, but also ensure the survival of eu farms.
we in ireland have a temperate oceanic climate.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
i particularly welcome the emphasis on small businesses, and this is something that we in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) committed to in our opinion, and it has been endorsed by all groups, and i am very pleased about that.
i am pleased that i was a rapporteur for his successor for the committee on industry, research and energy.
as a member of the european parliament’s committee on international trade, i see these as crucial aspects towards a well-functioning global trading environment and for ensuring a level playing field for eu companies that operate in it.
not only because it has proven difficult to find agreement on such plans in the past, but because it is a strong agreement that will help to ensure the sustainable exploitation of stocks in belgian, german, french, irish, spanish, portuguese and, yes, united kingdom waters.
sustainable stocks are vital and that’s what we have to include.
therefore it is absolutely important that, when we can do so, we reuse water in terms of irrigation, agriculture, urban waste etc.
madam president, i am pleased to support this agreement and particularly to highlight the important opportunities it brings for the eu and côte d’ivoire to work together in a sustainable way in the exploitation of fisheries resources.
sustainability is a crucial element of all fisheries policies, so i am pleased that this agreement pays due attention to that priority.
the vote will take place on thursday, 14 february 2019.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on use of cannabis for medicinal purposes, tabled by dubravka šuica, guillaume balas, urszula krupa, catherine bearder, estefanía torres martínez, martin häusling and piernicola pedicini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000122/2018 - b8-0001/2019) (2018/2775(rsp)).
written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the reflection paper towards a sustainable europe by 2030 (2019/2570(rsp)).
the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 march 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on enisa, the ‘eu cybersecurity agency’, and repealing regulation (eu) 526/2013, and on information and communication technology cybersecurity certification (‘cybersecurity act’) (com(2017)0477 – c8—0310/2017 – 2017/0225(cod)) (a8—0264/2018), and– the report by julia reda, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european cybersecurity industrial, technology and research competence centre and the network of national coordination centres (com(2018)0630 – c8-0404/2018 – 2018/0328(cod)) (a8-0084/2019).
a robust eu cybersecurity strategy is vital to enable us to repel any cyber-attacks against our energy supplies, aviation sector, commercial sectors or governments.
we must be ready to defend crucial infrastructure, such as energy grids, plants and industry, against sinister attacks from criminals or terrorists.
this is about the sustainability of the food-supply chain and we hear a great deal about that – about the challenge of climate, biodiversity, air quality and water quality.
so i very much welcome this as a first step towards a more sustainable food-supply chain.
i read comments from arla, who talk about their drive for more sustainable farming, where they say that consumers are willing to reward the most sustainable dairy farmers.
i hope that is the case and that those who are dealing between consumers and farmers ensure that the farmers get a sustainable price for the work that they do.
i had irish dairy representatives over last week in brussels and we spoke about issues around welfare and environment, and the challenges generally.
deprivation levels for single-parent families have doubled over the last five years, yet we have talk of a hike in a carbon tax.
a carbon tax is a false solution and a distraction.
rapid, far—reaching and unprecedented change is what the ipcc report called for, and instead we are discussing carbon tax top—ups that punish ordinary families.
instead, we should be closing the corporate tax loopholes and introducing a wealth tax to frontload the investment in sustainable alternatives and set a timeline for fossil fuel phase—out.
the protection of forestry is an extremely important element in the overall protection of the environment and in slowing down climate change.
the illegal timber trade has a devastating environmental effect and so i welcome this recommendation warmly as a step in the right direction for both the eu and vietnam.
the preservation of habitats and biodiversity can only be accomplished by working with third countries to ensure that not only does the eu not export illegal timber, but equally does not support the trade of imported illegal timber.
– mr president, greta thunberg was blocked from addressing this parliament because she speaks truth to power, and that truth is that we are failing on climate change – failing to take the bold steps that are required, failing to lead.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report has told us that we need to stay under 1.5 degrees if we want to limit climate catastrophe.
this is not about political compromise, it’s about following science, and failure tomorrow to support the amendments calling on the eu to reduce emissions by at least 55% is not only an insult to the activists who are watching us from the gallery but it is also telling them that their future is irrelevant.
in light of today’s debate on climate change, and indeed the huge challenge we face on the issue, we have called for budgets to be made available to modernise and decarbonise industry, transport and energy.
the next eu budget can help to foster sustainable growth, put in place more effective reforms and help us to build a better society that improves all our citizens’ lives.
– mr president, my thanks and congratulations to ms monika hohlmeier, my colleague, and also to commissioner oettinger, who is doing such good work on this portfolio, as he did on the previous portfolio on energy.
secondly, i welcome the prominence given to the climate challenge.
we have a big challenge ahead to ensure that 2030 targets are met – we discussed those this morning in the presence of commissioner cañete – and that we implement the measures needed to ensure that the eu remains at the forefront of climate action.
this has been successful in recent years, with european fund for strategic investments (efsi), for instance, alone having delivered 35 750 gigawatt hours of additional electricity, 90% of which is renewable.
additionally, it has ensured 5 000 gigawatt hours of energy savings per year.
but the question i really have is, why did the group's leader refuse to allow young people to come into the meeting to talk about climate?
i can say that my group here in the european parliament, i’ve been involved in climate change, i represented parliament in the climate agreement in paris.
i was involved in the renewable energy file as rapporteur, so my credentials in climate change are better than anyone’s probably, certainly from the speaker’s point of view.
and secondly, i just want to say that my party as well in government, right now, under our new minister, is actually at the minute preparing our climate and energy plans, which are going to be very ambitious, and also the 2040 targets have put in at least 25% for climate action.
so both fine gael, my party, our government in ireland and the epp group here in parliament are leading the change in a very practical way for climate change.
madam president, the 2030 agenda is based on the union’s core values of democracy, participation, good governance, social justice, solidarity, sustainability and respect for the rule of law and human rights within the eu, its member states, and around the globe.
the four essential pillars of sustainable development – social, environmental, economic and governance – must be put into practice.
the fair transition to a sustainable low-carbon economy that is inclusive for all is an essential part of this.
i strongly welcome this report’s call on the commission to draw up an ambitious strategy for the implementation of the 2030 agenda and i think it’s important to emphasise the importance of sustainable food production.
(the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, all during my life i never saw much sense in this biannual clock change and i was delighted when came here to the european parliament to be part of a working group that set out to end it, and of course as we progressed over the last five or six years, we got all the evidence from research which show that from a health point of view, animal welfare, energy, that the biannual clock change has outlived its usefulness.
mr president, having been involved in the whole climate area all during this mandate, i’m very pleased with the progress it has made.
i think that great credit is due to commissioner arias cañete, mr ristori and many others, who firstly ensured that the paris agreement got over the line and now, too, the clean energy package has put in place all the necessary legislation to deliver it.
that would deliver the connectivity that would be necessary to make maximum use of a renewable source.
while this is indeed something that would be a challenge for my own country, ireland, we must drive forward the energy transition, and restricting state aid available to power plants provides a twofold benefit by divesting investment from fossil fuels and making this investment available to renewable energy.
having helped to deliver the 32% renewable energy target last year as a rapporteur for this file, i am certain that investment in renewable energy is investment in a cleaner future and a step in the right direction.
mr president, civil society applauded us for adopting an ambitious report last october, and for taking a strong stance and sending a clear message to car industries that they must also keep up to speed on climate ambition and demands.
however, what is disappointingly clear from the final agreement between the council and parliament is that the council and eu ministers are happy to water down bold environmental legislation that aims to tackle one of the eu’s biggest polluting sources.
co2 emissions from transport are increasing and efforts to improve the fuel efficiency of new cars are slowing so we must demand a lot more from the sector.
we should also praise our grandmothers and our great-grandmothers, who knew about recycling and knew about the environment before the words were invented, because they lived it.
over a period of time we will be sending a signal to the industry that plastics pollution has to end, and that a lot of plastics being used are either to be collected and reused or whatever.
definitely we have to do everything we can to bring about an end to plastics pollution of the environment as soon as we can.
the vote will take place on thursday, 28 march 2019.
the next item is the debate on the report by michel dantin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the quality of water intended for human consumption (com(2017)0753 – c8—0019/2018 – 2017/0332(cod)) (a8—0288/2018).
mr president, this report gives us an opportunity to define what is sustainable economic activity and what is not, and to consider the interaction between environmental goals and social protections.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change’s report of last october was the starkest message yet of the impending climate catastrophe.
the scientific consensus is that we have until 2030 to act to make rapid and far—reaching transitions in all areas of our economies if we are to limit global warming to 1.5° – that’s just 11 years away.
the opposition that we’ve heard in this house to climate action is actually about protecting the profits of corporations and financial institutions above our future, and everyone knows it.
they demand real action – not tokenism, not carbon taxes – real action, such as a 100% renewable energy by 2030. you call them idealistic, but actually they are the ones who are being realistic.
voting time on wednesday 27 march 2019
i very much welcome this report, madam president, because the issue of drinking water is linked to key environmental issues which cannot be tackled by individual member states but must be tackled in a conceptual way across the continent.
the philosophical idea of this report, that if we increase the credibility of drinking water, we encourage consumers to drink more tap water, not bottled water, i think that idea is very correct and it can lead to indirectly regulating the amount of plastic waste that objectively remains after drinking plastic water.
so raising awareness about the quality of tap water, raising the bar for tap water to be truly safe, those are, i think, significant positive environmental actions that need to be encouraged, and that can ultimately lead to less plastic waste in the water that citizens buy in this packaged form.
as well as that, of course, i have been involved in the renewable energy file.
over the next few years we have to incentivise renewable gas within the european union.
we have done a lot to complete the energy union and to put it into effect in the union and we can be satisfied with the work we have done in the last five years.
by protecting whistle-blowers through these rules, we can better detect and prevent harm to the public interest such as fraud, corruption, corporate tax avoidance and damage to people’s health or the environment.
it will build on the achievements of some of our recent programmes, such as horizon 2020 and fp7 and help us to reach our targets and create jobs, particularly in the areas of renewable energy, food production, digital etc.
producing sufficient sustainable and sufficiently healthy food for all, now and in the future, in europe and globally, while facing extreme weather, resource scarcity, changing markets and demanding consumers will require innovation and technological development.
horizon europe will ensure that our future food production will be more sustainable and competitive, protecting the environment and catering to various needs.
also i welcome the strong support being given to climate action and also research into cancer.
mr president, having been involved in the whole climate change agenda all during this mandate, i am delighted to take part in this debate and indeed very pleased with the progress we have made in parliament and compliments to commissioner arias cañete, who has led us from the paris agreement right up to here, and also people like bas eickhout, who has been a driving force in this whole area in the past five years.
we have, as miriam dalli said, another policy in place, that’s very important, and i suppose this is the one area that we really need to tackle in terms of reducing emissions.
i drive from my home in killarney to dublin airport, i drive from strasbourg to frankfurt, and i see more and more heavy-duty vehicles on the road, but if we bring in emission reductions it’s not actually going to decrease the amount of transport on the road but it can make it energy—efficient, and especially in relation to reducing emissions.
we are doing it in a sensible, progressive, step-by-step manner and that will help the industry, it will help our environment.
the parliament’s report was far superior to what’s been forced upon us now by member states who are determined to avoid taking any action at all against climate change, it seems.
disclosure isn’t a big risk; it’s the bare minimum we can demand from the finance sector that is doing so much to damage our economy and our environment.
so let me repeat once again: the scientific consensus is that we have until 2030 to act to make rapid and far-reaching transitions in all areas of our economies if we’re to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
and just as we’ve seen in other votes on the sustainable finance package, conservatives who really, it has to be said, appear not to give a single damn about the future of our planet, are sabotaging the future of our children and their children.
we have to decide whether we’re going to actually pursue real climate action or whether we’re going to just burden families with carbon taxes and pretend that we’re taking real measures.
we’re going to have to decide whether we invest eu monies in creating real sustainable jobs and growth across the eu or whether we’re going to actually invest eur 13 billion in the creation of a european army.
on environmental, human rights, demographic and migration issues, we need the european union to go global in relation to africa.
mr president, it’s good to hear that the finnish presidency will prioritise the challenges of climate.
but i think it’s important that we take on board that one of our best options in the fight against climate system breakdown is a dramatic global tree-planting programme that would sequester greenhouse gases.
trade deals that facilitate a race to the bottom, in terms of environmental protections and quality standards, are incompatible with meaningful climate action.
we all know that forests are our lungs, that they play a very important role in sinking carbon, and that wood products are the real storage of this greenhouse gas.
i come from slovenia, which is 60 percent forested, and in slovenia we have a quality, sustainable forest management system, and the percentage and area of forests is increasing.
but our forests, like others, are vulnerable to a variety of environmental influences, from fires, to the effects of snowstorms, to the effects of avalanches.
this plan will essentially double down on ireland’s existing commercial forestry policy, which violates the basic principles of biodiversity, with its complete over-dependence on sitka spruce conifers.
42% of all sitka spruce grown in ireland is harvested for energy purposes, the rest is used as construction timber.
42% of all the sitka spruce grown in ireland is released back into the atmosphere as carbon.
at the heart of the problem is the renewable energy directive: the crazy and completely unscientific policy of treating biomass as having zero emissions or as being carbon neutral.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
because shell, one of the biggest polluters on the planet, successfully lobbied the commission in the lead-up to the 2014 eu climate pact.
the idea that gas is a more suitable transition fuel than an energy approach based on renewables was created by shell.
it is estimated that nearly a quarter of total annual amazon deforestation in recent years has been caused by these displaced beef farmers, so how in the name of god did the commission come to the conclusion in march in its sustainability criteria for biofuels that soya bean production should not be designated a high risk factor for indirect land use change?
there are a number of ways, but one crucial way to deal with this is to fundamentally revise our trade policy, a trade policy that actually meets the sustainable development goals and stops deforestation.
there are two very important ways: you have the sustainability chapters, the tsd chapters that really need to be enforced and become binding.
madam president, the wave of fires that has ravaged the amazon forest and its indigenous communities this year affects us all because of its human, environmental and climatic repercussions.
i would therefore like to highlight the leticia pact for the amazon, signed on 6 september by bolivia, brazil, colombia, ecuador, guyana, peru and suriname, which ratifies the commitment of these countries to the system of international treaties to protect the environment and, in particular, the paris agreement.
environmental rights and workers’ rights are being trampled on.
at the moment, a large german concern, volkswagen, is negotiating with turkey to move its plant there, in violation of human rights, in illegal state aid, in the fact that turkey pollutes the air and does not comply with any environmental standards.
however, ensuring that democracy goes well beyond the balloting process on voting day requires a political environment with freedom of expression and respect for plurality.
there must be sustainable conditions to enable the community to thrive, and not merely to survive, after the suffering they have faced.
the european union will continue to call for sustainable solutions for the rohingya, and for the myanmar authorities to ensure that conditions are met for safe, dignified and voluntary returns.
the war drums must be kept away and we must put all our energy into making this work, but this must be closely linked to the defence of human rights in the country.
because what we really need are safe routes, effective asylum procedures and sustainable cooperation with the countries of origin based on our values.
and finally, to strengthen europe's determination to lead the fight against the climate threat and to accelerate the implementation of the paris agreement.
i think this is part of a wider debate that is needed in terms of the financing of the green deal, the green agenda and climate change.
if you look at the scale of the investment that is needed for the sustainable development goals, for the green deal, the trillion investment fund that ursula von der leyen is speaking about, this is a very broad challenging issue for us here in the european parliament and i really am glad to see it centre stage.
mr president, the european investment bank’s revised draft energy lending policy, released at the end of september, had some worrying changes.
the original draft states in section 3 that the bank will no longer originate fossil fuel energy projects after the adoption of the policy and stop lending to fossil fuel energy projects by 2020. as natural gas is a fossil fuel, logically natural gas, according to the original draft lending policy, would not be exempted.
but the revised lending policy rewrites this subsection, so that it now states that to manage phasing-out of lending to fossil fuel energy projects smoothly, the bank will continue to approve gas infrastructure projects already firmly under appraisal until the end of 2020. now it means, for example, that the eib will pump money into the planned liquid natural gas project on the shannon estuary.
we urge all to ensure always the protection of civilians and unhindered, safe and sustainable humanitarian access throughout syria.
a sustainable solution to the syrian crisis will not come through military means.
it is they who liberated the yazidi women from their mountaintop prison in sinjar, eventually opening the way for a sustainable peace process.
improving the business and investment climate and tackling the oligarchic structures is also crucial to unleash ukraine’s economic potential, but i would say for having a healthy environment in the country altogether.
we also continue to engage on energy sector reform, and we look forward to the unbundling of gas transmission from production and supply, which should happen by the end of this year.
we expect the new government of ukraine to embark on an ambitious and timely pace of continuous reforms, especially in large-scale privatisation, land reform, energy, healthcare and, of course, the fight against corruption.
furthermore, it is of utmost importance to involve ukraine and other eastern partners in major eu initiatives on digitalisation, migration, social inclusion, sustainable energy and climate change.
for sustainable economic growth, we must invest in people.
i agree with the recommendation to shift taxation from labour to other factors that are less detrimental to sustainable growth.
clearly, this is the last year of the current multiannual financial framework, and we are preparing for the transition to an inclusive europe and dealing with sustainable development goals on the 2030 agenda.
we would expect climate change funds with additional funding for the just transition fund that the 41 coal-dependent regions and western macedonia in my home country, greece, need.
instead of cutting back on committed funds, we have to do a lot in the new economy: tackle climate change effectively, boost technology through research, create other jobs.
it also talks about the importance of climate action, young people and human rights.
but perpetual growth is not compatible with climate action.
growth is increasing, emissions are increasing, but climate action is not even running at a standstill.
so i think if we are to be honest with ourselves, if we are to talk about the challenges facing europe: demographics, aging population, environment, the lack of research and development and innovation in the european union, and the many other areas that we have failed to invest in – not necessarily the european union itself, but national governments – there must be an obligation on us to revisit how we assess future investment, how we assess investment in infrastructure and in development and in areas of the economy for long-term development.
so i would call on others to look at this particular issue and for us to revisit that particular pact to unshackle governments in terms of long-term investment in environment, education and infrastructure and the other critical areas that will make this european union more dynamic.
we do need to have a better common european asylum system by facilitating, coordinating and strengthening practical cooperation among member states on the many aspects of asylum – and i include my country, the uk, in that list, due to the hostile environment created by theresa may when she was home secretary and which continues today.
mr president, we could of course run through the litany of wrongdoings at the european asylum support office (easo): breaches of procurement rules, human resources breaches, data protection breaches, harassment and bullying of staff, and a general climate of irresponsibility.
she’s obviously very happy to help the environment, but her problem is that the irish government are giving a derogation for medical use.
climate change is no longer a theoretical debate among scientists, but a reality.
and third, we need to be much more ambitious in terms of targets, aiming for a 65% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. future generations will judge us for what we are doing to the planet and those judgments will be decidedly very harsh.
the message from new york was clear: the climate summit, the sustainability summit, has put us in the driver's seat - and commissioner oettinger, i would like to see it that we are already on the right track, but the summary was different - we are miles behind what we have declared to want to achieve.
the old commission was right to describe a scenario 1, one where sustainability becomes mandatory for all policy areas.
but i have not yet heard the new commission president commit that this binding scenario 1 for sustainability in all policy areas will be the compass of the new commission.
madam president, let us be clear, the un climate summit in new york has given birth to a mouse.
only 66 countries, representing less than 7% of co2 emissions, have committed to do better by 2020. meanwhile, the big polluters, the rest of us, are just sitting on the fence.
the european union has committed itself to investing €1 trillion over 10 years in the ecological transition, with the european investment bank playing a central role, of course.
the climate emergency also means taking action on the impact of pollution on our health.
air pollution is being made considerably worse by climate change.
it must also become a priority for the new commission, alongside the climate emergency.
i have been listening to this debate with great interest and unfortunately i have not heard a single word about the speculative nature of the emissions trading system.
nor have i heard the left's concerns about the rise of energy poverty in the european union.
54 million people in the european union suffer from energy poverty.
today, you propose to expand the scope of restrictive climate policy.
that is why we need a climate policy that is sensible and prudent, that takes into account the differences in the level of economic development of the member states, that speaks of the right to self-determination of the energy mix, which is in line with the treaty, that also takes into account the differences in the level of wealth of societies, precisely to prevent energy poverty.
madam president, at the eu summit, there was 10 minutes discussing climate action.
the un climate summit in new york last month was supposed to boost climate action but it produced nothing.
the latest science makes it clear that not one of the eu’s climate and energy targets are in line with the paris agreement.
if you’re serious about dealing with climate challenges and problems, there are some actions that need to be taken now: you need to end fossil fuel subsidies straight away; you should stop liquid natural gas projects across europe, including the shannon project in ireland; you need to stop funding gas projects, and you should end the stability and growth pact and let’s invest in renewable energy.
without these basic steps to undo these climate contradictions, we are in denial.
in transport and environment we have a real challenge and frans timmermans and kadri simson have a real struggle ahead of them.
start with public housing and give us an a energy rating to public homes.
eur 300 million has been mobilised in the last two years to support reforms and promote sustainable job creation, particularly for the youngest generation – the one that has been at the forefront of the recent protests.
finally, just to pay tribute to our national broadcaster, rte, which has a hearing on climate change for children in our parliament this friday.
and the family is the best environment for raising a child.
every child has the right to a family, to school and to grow up in a supportive environment.
(the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, the challenges we face in trying to protect the world's children and create an environment in which they can have a safe and secure childhood have changed dramatically over the past three decades.
(applause)
madam president, europe has a huge climate debt.
in the global north, we contribute far more to climate breakdown with our history of emissions, yet we refuse to take radical action, even though we have a disproportionate amount of the world’s wealth.
the truth is, climate change isn’t caused by people, it’s caused by an economic system that drives inequality and rewards environmental destruction.
we need a 70% reduction in emissions by 2030: anything less, and it means that we don’t actually view this as a climate emergency.
we need to change the system, not the climate.
mr president, declaring an emergency, catastrophe or crisis without actually having policies in place that will actually have a meaningful impact on the environment and on climate change will simply be just denying the reality that is there at the moment.
i think, if the european union to be serious about climate change, it has to make sure that all policies are inclusive: that not only do they send out a strong message, but that people actually buy in and support what needs to be done to change how we live, how we work, and how we commute.
the bottom line here is that unless you have access to finance; unless companies and businesses invest in research and innovation; unless our colleges have the capacity to research and innovate in the areas of climate change, then we really will be talking about a catastrophe and a crisis, because it will be just that.
on environment, i would urge the leaders to consider a permanent ban on all new fossil fuel infrastructure, including liquefied natural gas infrastructure, and those gas infrastructure projects on the eu’s project of common interest list.
we support countries like greece that are taking on the hardships and the difficult missions and we are empowering young people, tackling climate change and creating the conditions for them to find lots and lots of good jobs.
a large part of the money will be spent on climate issues, as we know.
commissioner, you say that 21.1% will go to fight climate change.
but i’d like to ask you whether you are not concerned about the lack of joined—up thinking when it comes to dealing with climate change.
of course, we have to acknowledge that global warming and rising sea levels are now a factor that continually threaten our coastal areas, so venice is just a symbol of what is happening across the globe.
madam president, by discussing extreme weather events and climate change you are trying to hide the fact that today the progress of science and technology is able to offer man much greater protection from natural phenomena than in the past, preventing or limiting to a considerable extent the consequences, and in line with any changes in the climate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic images of the floods that are occurring these days are yet another demonstration of the effects of climate change.
extreme weather events like these could increase by 50% by 2100, and according to a study by the european environment agency, in just 36 years, extreme weather events have caused economic losses totalling €450 billion.
in the past, oil companies have not only hidden the fact that the use of fossil fuels would have harmful consequences for the climate, but some have even invested in climate change disinformation.
but the time for misinformation is over, and with the recent development of attribution science, it is possible to link the responsibility of a single company to a particular climate event, and that would allow the polluter pays principle to really apply.
climate change is a challenge that we all face, but we can't blame it all on climate change, we have to be able to do more and do it better.
venice can be, if we wish, the symbol of a european renaissance based on security and sustainability, which can protect us from the negative effects of climate change and which can put in place all the necessary actions to reverse the course and permanently stop the environmental degradation in progress.
i fear climate change.
we need to learn about the laws of climate change.
climate experts say that ireland is already overdue a catastrophic storm surge of up to 3 metres at a nationwide cost and damage to property alone of eur 1 billion.
attitudes change when you publicly discuss these issues in a tolerant, loving environment.
we are facing a crisis in our ‘information ecosystem’, as lydia polgreen described it.
but we are also convinced that security will only be sustainable and real if it is built on peace and on a two-state solution.
actually, i’m convinced that this is the only achievable, sustainable, realistic solution to this conflict.
mr president, the recent murder of two romanian forest rangers highlights the urgent need to protect europe’s environmental defenders and to save europe’s last old—growth forests.
more than 160 environmental defenders were murdered in 2018, and thousands more were criminalised and hounded in countries such as the philippines, india, brazil and colombia.
we do need effective eu legislation that establishes a mandatory human rights and environmental due—diligence framework for companies and financial institutions that are eu—based or that provide goods or services in the eu so as to make companies accountable for the impact of their activities.
there is global warming.
it has been identified because of the amount of carbon emissions, fossil-fuel burning and how we just exploit our planet, which are the real reasons why we have this emergency.
it is time for us now to accept that we have an emergency and accepting that to respond with an emergency in terms of developing policies that will immediately impact on saving the planet, saving the environment, saving the biodiversity and saving our oceans.
human rights, climate change, the rule of law, supporting democracy: they’re all key issues that we should all be involved in.
so let us establish this joint parliamentary assembly, promote democracy and human rights, champion climate change and ensure that the rule of law is upheld.
i shall not waste much time in thanking the commission for the work it has done in the last few weeks and congratulating it on this communication.
we're already suffering from a carbon leak right now.
i was expecting a comprehensive strategy for sustainable food.
sustainability of food is not just a matter of production, but also of processing, trade, import and consumer information.
some people say climate action costs too much.
we are talking about transitioning to a carbon neutral economy yet we don’t have the capacities because we don’t have the capacity in our universities and we don’t have the graduates that are flowing from that.
one in six people in the european union has a disability ranging from mild to severe, which means that some 80 million europeans are prevented from participating fully in social and economic life because of environmental barriers and attitudes.
i would like to point out some important progress that was made in the eu’s climate policy last week.
firstly, last wednesday the commission presented the european green deal, which is a road map to embed climate action into all policies.
secondly, one of the main priorities of the finnish presidency was reached in the european council which, after a long debate, endorsed the objective of achieving a climate neutral eu by 2050, in line with the objectives of the paris agreement.
the eu has now agreed on the common objective of climate neutrality and all the member states but one have committed to implementing it.
first and foremost, to finalise the rule book on the issue of the carbon market, as laid down in article 6 of the paris agreement.
the rules on article 6 should ensure robust accounting for the use of international carbon markets, should avoid double counting and should also guarantee environmental integrity.
concerning the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage, the eu should resist calls to create additional institutional mechanisms, but should support instead solutions that would provide for countries to effectively address loss and damage associated with climate change.
as to the gender action plan, the eu was supportive of an extension and revision which strengthens gender considerations and women’s participation in climate action.
on 2 december, addressing the conference on behalf of the eu, the presidency made it clear that, in front of this climate emergency – the one this parliament declared last month – we had to change our approach dramatically and embrace the green revolution.
our objective being to make europe the first climate—neutral continent on the planet by 2050. indeed, during these two weeks of negotiations, it became increasingly clear that there was an elephant in the room – ambition, which was not on the agenda of this cop – turned out to be a major issue.
a number of parties, together with ngos, the youth with greta thunberg, and the public at large, in their thousands in the streets of madrid, called on the cop to do more to address the climate emergency.
until the very last hours of the cop, the eu showed the maximum possible flexibility in view of striking a deal which would preserve environmental integrity.
and it was agreed that the work on the global climate action agenda would continue beyond 2020. so, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, the eu will continue to negotiate the implementation of the paris agreement in the same spirit.
we stand firm behind the global transition to a climate-neutral future and the commission believes in a green deal for europe to lead the way.
it did not deliver what we had travelled there for on international carbon markets and on other issues.
for europe, there were some bridges that we just could not cross if we want to lead on climate; if we wanted to stay credible towards our international partners; if we wanted to respond to the young people in the streets and to citizens here at home in europe who are asking for action and a plan for the climate.
to put it plainly, we could not support global rules that would undermine the very integrity of global climate action.
we could not endorse an outcome that would take us back on climate instead of taking us, and the rest of the world, forward.
we will build on the global consensus to work next year to increase climate ambitions worldwide.
last week we presented in your parliament the european green deal, which is our proposed roadmap to take climate action across all our policies.
we have committed to climate neutrality by 2050, and we set out a timeline to increase our ambition for our emissions reductions in 2030. that’s europe’s momentum to increase ambitions worldwide and we will work relentlessly next year to do this.
by cop26 in glasgow, we intend to propose to update our nationally determined contributions to tackle climate change.
at the cop in madrid, europe showed solidarity with the countries that are most vulnerable to climate change.
we must make sure that we help the most vulnerable in their climate efforts so that they are taken along in this effort, that they have the capacity to deal with the changes so that they find courage and hope in a better, sustainable future.
you know, nothing makes such an impression as talking to representatives from countries that can quite literally disappear if we don’t do anything about climate change.
the eu and its member states already provide more than 40% of the global climate finance.
europe will continue to scale it up in line with the paris agreement, so we remain firmly committed to boosting global climate finance and to supporting developing countries.
this commission and this parliament know that people are calling for action, and that in fact they are taking action on the streets themselves to push us for more ambition and a concrete climate plan.
it’s a good thing to see that the 16-year-old climate activist was named person of the year by time magazine.
the green deal is a start for europe to reinvent itself, to base our wealth and our well—being not just on carbon, to get rid of that as an essential element.
we will fight to make sure that we all face head-on the urgent challenges of climate change.
i know we can count on this parliament to do that, and i know that this parliament understands that the fact that europe has only 9% of emissions does not give us an excuse to not do anything, because i’ve also seen in madrid that if we lead, others will follow.
outside the official negotiating rooms, there has been a positive development: for several years now, i have systematically asked our partners in japan, south africa, mexico and many other large countries: what are you doing to increase your climate target?
that is why the international dimension of climate policy is more important than ever.
that's why the epp wants a high-level climate ambassador.
because only if the european union leads, but also takes others along, can we really avoid dangerous climate change.
in fact, a weak regulatory framework could have undermined our ability to make 2020 a stronger climate year.
we must do more to reduce our emissions in europe and in the eu, but we also have to keep up the pressure on the international community for glasgow, and it is good that we are united in that message.
a report from the us department of energy says that the amount of russian allowances is about 884 million tonnes, probably the same amount as in china.
so congratulations, commissioner, i think we are the shining example when we speak about environmental policy in the world in the future.
we are still on a track of warming more than three degrees, with all the devastating consequences, and the world is bickering about details, about allowances, taking them from old to new periods, or here in the parliament, the epp is saying that we need a climate envoy.
this kind of institutional battling doesn’t help the climate.
so this is also the moment to really become serious about sustainability demands within our trade deals, and mercosur should be the first.
the 2015 paris agreement confirmed the parties' determination to radically reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
so today we can hardly say that the rules for protecting our industry from global competition from countries with weaker climate solutions are obsolete.
the recent right-wing coups in venezuela and bolivia have undermined the positive role of the latin american alba group in these international climate talks.
these countries were once prominent advisors on indigenous rights, climate justice, and non-market approaches.
in the run-up to cop25 we were negotiating and celebrating the idea of a trade deal with the mercosur countries, which is toxic, and the idea that climate diplomacy is going to be an effective tool is a myth, from what we are seeing.
there is no doubt that there are a lot of climate deniers out there.
so from that context, while cop was a failure in terms of actually bringing forward a meaningful policy, it does highlight the fact that there are many countries out there which simply will continue to jeopardise the climate for economic gain alone, without taking a holistic approach.
i would urge that we would look at it from an economic point of view and an environmental point of view.
we also need to enhance our diplomatic efforts, as a european union, across the globe to encourage countries in the context of the next cop to be serious about bringing forward tangible proposals that will actually have a meaningful impact on how we transition to a carbon neutral world and save the planet.
however, the initiative fails to adequately address the main root causes of the decline of pollinators such as land-use changes, intensive agriculture, use of pesticides and climate change.
the irish national park and wildlife service report submitted to the un convention on biological diversity this year blamed the pollinator decline on the obsession with ever-increasing levels of agricultural productivity; the loss of hedgerows, farmland edges and scrub; and monocultures, including cash crop forests made up of fast-growing coniferous species of low biodiversity value.
the importance of pollinators for agriculture, food production, biodiversity and the landscape has been well covered in the parliamentary debates here, but the plight and survival of the bee has really captured the imagination and the hearts of the public, and we, as legislators, must respond to this and act accordingly and responsibly.
to have tough standards and a stable framework to fight climate change and protect our biodiversity, especially when we're talking about the lungs of the planet.
madam president, i do not think that, in essence, the agreement with mercosur is antinomic to our climate ambitions, to paraphrase one of the previous speakers.
on the climate front, the aim is to raise the tone with jair bolsonaro's brazil.
deforestation could turn the amazon, which is currently a carbon sink, into a source of emissions.
and the amazon is ten years of global co2 emissions.
then you've got the top of it: wonderful sustainability chapters and environmental chapters.
he's making no secret of the fact that he'd love to throw the paris climate agreement out the window, and we're making deals like this with him?
we cannot have the same standards if we impose conditions on our farmers - and rightly so - and at the same time import from a country where environmental standards are not good at all, especially in the agricultural sector.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the title of this debate should be: are the tenets of the european union compatible with the environment it claims to defend?
on the one hand, there is the desire to impose ever more stringent, demanding and therefore costly environmental standards on european industry and farmers.
europe is now the best student in ecology, down 16% in two decades of co2 emissions.
we must move away from the free trade model, we must relocate human activities, protect the environment and defend our economy.
madam president, this mercosur agreement prioritises profit for transnational companies and investors, while lowering social and environmental standards for workers, farmers and citizens.
the green deal claims that european farmers are key to managing the transition and that the farm to fork strategy will strengthen farmers’ efforts to tackle climate change and preserve biodiversity, and it talks of ensuring a decent living for farmers and their families.
what is there to make of the eu’s climate diplomacy, when argentina, brazil and uruguay blocked progress at cop25?
i had an argument with ricardo salles – brazil’s environment minister – in madrid, and he said that not a single tree in the rainforest has been cut down for soya or beef production.
madam president, i would like to wish you well, commissioner hogan, on your reappointment as commissioner and wish you well in the trade portfolio and to say at the outset, i mean this is going to be a very big challenge for europe in the context of promoting global greening, ensuring that we protect not only our own climate agenda here but that we foster it across the globe.
and at the same time, we are encouraging a trade deal with brazil, uruguay and argentina which will effectively destroy much of the amazonian rainforest that is left – the lungs of the world – upend biodiversity and send out a message across the globe that europe is not as serious as it should be about climate change.
it undermines the basic principles that we in europe are promoting in terms of the environment, and secondly and as importantly, it undermines our agricultural industry as well.
madam president, the commission has presented its climate ambition with the green deal, and i congratulate it.
what is the policy coherence when we know the impact of this agreement, not only on climate and deforestation, but also on indigenous peoples, biodiversity and human rights?
stop telling us that this chapter "sustainable development" is a guarantee for sustainable development; it is not true and you know it.
and, as it happens, when it comes to human rights or sustainable development rights, well there is no possibility to use this dispute settlement mechanism.
so, to be consistent, i suggest you read the davos boss, the davos boss who is not a leftist and who says: "a company must be accountable for environmental and social responsibility".
so, commissioner, and madam president of the council, i urge you to be less ideological in your trade agreements and to respect what companies themselves are doing today in respect of the environment.
at the same time, we are facing the challenges of climate change and environmental degradation, which require a global response.
with every new trade agreement, the european union is stepping up efforts to implement and enforce sustainable development commitments, and the eu-mercosur trade agreement is no exception.
with a strong, sustainable development chapter in the trade agreement, we are on the right track with argentina, brazil, paraguay and uruguay in committing to the implementation of the paris climate agreement.
how can a deal that ships goods needlessly around the world, imports beef produced on cleared rainforest, that suits the interest of car manufacturers but not the climate, be compatible with the safe, clean future for all?
we risk talking out of both sides of our mouth here, talking of a circular economy and sustainable agriculture and then importing climate-destroying agricultural produce.
it’s essential, therefore, that women, young people and minorities be included in sustainable solutions for peace and stability.
we are not tackling the causes of the instability, climate change, illicit tax flows through our corrupt financial institutions in the global north, exploitation by our corrupt extractive industries and western support for corrupt administrations.
this way, we can ensure that the budget provided will support the conducive environment for the protection of children and human rights defenders.