to ensure confidence in the whole system and to ensure that the protection of human health and the environment are the main objectives of european union legislation, the essential points we have fought for are, first and foremost, transparency, independence and the absence of conflicts of interest in efsa's scientific panels.
the pest special committee report highlights the need to put citizens' health, the environment and food safety back at the centre of attention, ensuring that efsa has adequate financial resources, independence from lobbies, no conflicts of interest and adequate expertise in the approval processes.
but we must correct the mistakes of the past by shifting agriculture towards sustainable practices.
the energy transition and the fight against climate change constitute some of the greatest challenges we face today.
in this context, it is essential to develop a low—carbon, environmentally friendly energy source that can work as a complement to renewables and fusion; as an energy source it holds a lot of promise.
the project aims for key scientific breakthroughs in the development of fusion as a low-carbon and virtually inexhaustible energy source that should support the eu’s objectives to fight climate change.
it is also extremely promising in fulfilling the other dimensions of our energy union to make energy secure for our citizens while supporting growth and job creation.
we want to ensure that europe continues leading the way on fusion energy.
the construction of the project needed for the start of experiments is now around 60% complete and the assembly stage of the project will soon start, paving the way for the first experiments in 2022. and to respond to ms rivasi’s contribution: it is true that the fusion will not be commercially available before the second half of the century and therefore does not enter into the portfolio of low-carbon technologies for our climate mitigation strategies up to 2050. however, climate change and decarbonisation of energy production are long-term challenges that will require viable and sustainable solutions, also post-2050.
from that perspective fusion does offer attractive prospects for sustainable low-carbon energy strategies for the second half of the century, when fusion could come to represent a suitable complement to renewable energy sources.
the expected advantages of fusion in terms of low-cost fuel abundance and low environmental impact make its development worth pursuing from such a long-term perspective.
with the continuous support of the european union for the project in the next multiannual financial framework, the project should therefore reach crucial stages, contributing to building the energy, security and low carbon economy of tomorrow.
the application of information and telecommunications technologies can now contribute not only to reducing waste but also to making it easier, more immediate and more transparent for citizens and businesses to access the services and financing opportunities offered by the european funds.
with the single market, we have a powerful engine of sustainable growth to underpin our living standards.
partly, this is because reforms at national level are necessary – and by the way, they would be so under any monetary system – to produce sustainable growth; partly, it is because the economic and monetary union (emu) remains incomplete.
but, from 2010 onwards, a loss of confidence in the sustainability of sovereign debt had produced a vicious circle of rising borrowing costs, financial fragmentation, and contracting economic activity.
we are out of it primarily because of the resilience, the energy, and the entrepreneurial capacity of european citizens, as well as their trust in their leaders’ commitment to the euro.
we also share the view expressed in the report that monetary policy alone cannot sufficiently achieve sustainable economic growth and that the euro area economy should be supported by a mix of ambitious, socially balanced, growth—friendly and productivity—enhancing structural reforms and fiscal policies in line with the stability and growth pact.
the objective of the banking union is, in addition to ensuring financial stability, to preserve the diversity of sustainable banking models in the european union, avoiding the european banking system itself to be led towards a single model or one that penalizes small banks, because such diversity allows better to meet the demands of citizens and their projects.
in recent years, investment conditions in europe have improved due to a more favourable economic situation, flexibility in the interpretation of the stability pact, new initiatives such as the european fund for strategic investments, but investment volumes in europe still remain below the average level reached in the decade before the crisis, and new and more important gaps have also opened in areas related to innovation, physical and social infrastructure, and climate change.
in addition to further strengthening support for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, innovation and sustainable infrastructure, this programme intends to begin addressing the huge gap in social infrastructure, as highlighted in the report of the task force on investment in social infrastructure last january, by ensuring the feasibility of projects in the fields of education, health and social housing.
the text we are about to vote on is overall balanced, including the part requiring that at least 65% of investment under the sustainable infrastructure window contribute to the objectives of the paris climate and environment agreements.
the idea is to address policies like climate change or improve digitalisation or increase financing for small and medium-sized companies, which are lacking finance in certain member states.
efsi has not been the medicine for all diseases and neither is the investeu fund the medicine which addresses all the probable problems in the world, but it’s a valuable additional investment tool which can create concrete jobs and modernise our economy, making it more sustainable, and create added value to our welfare societies.
our group will be strictly in line with the outcome of the committees' vote and i really hope that some of the amendments which are detrimental will not be adopted, to give a strong signal also with regard to the centrality of the sustainability objective.
the association agreement between the european union and central america, the first genuine interregional association agreement ratified by the european union, has undoubtedly produced positive developments in trade policy, despite the complexity of the international economic environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, globalisation has often had negative effects on the sustainability of our production and social protection systems, so europe's role should be to protect its citizens from these negative effects, to offer protection against unfair competition, to promote a future of sustainable growth that puts people at the centre.
now we need to go one step further, what the europeans are asking us to do: transform this fund into a real fund for an ecologically and socially just transition to a sustainable development model.
i believe that people, in this particular case workers, must be at the centre of a new development model that combines work and the environment.
the autonomy of the eu legal order, the safeguarding of our social, labour, environmental and taxation standards, the honouring of financial commitments, the balance of rights and obligations, none of these can be put into question.
but any extension must be for a clear reason and not just to waste more time.
they will become victims, as unfortunately already are citizens of third countries, of the hostile environment promoted by the tories since 2012. theresa may's promises can be revoked at a stroke by the british parliament.
for example, we could start by ending waste.
we are going to start a great fight against the waste of the union, and we are going to do it from here, from this parliament, from this useless and unjustifiable triple seat.
ladies and gentlemen, asking for the cancellation of this waste is not an attack on democracy, and democracy is not a privilege nor is it a building.
ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, on the one hand there are the decimals, austerity, waste, privileges; on the other hand there are the citizens and the demand for change.
the call that all interreg components should contribute to the sustainable development goals, that small projects and people-to-people projects should be maintained and strengthened, and that the new pilot component number 5 should also focus on creating links between the least developed and the most developed regions, increasing the capacity to create those regional innovation ecosystems that are able to bridge the gap between regions, both within the states and in a transnational perspective, is also welcome.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am pleased with the outcome of the vote on this important report on the authorisation procedures for pesticides, so that europe finally responds to the demands of millions of european citizens who are calling for toxic and dangerous products, not only for health but also for the environment and biodiversity, to be finally banned and, above all, for public, independent and, above all, transparent scientific assessments to be made possible.
this europe must put the health of its citizens and the protection of the environment and our territories at the centre.
however, the competitiveness of our european system of european companies depends on this and i think it is right to ensure an environment in which payments are made on time and that is an environment in which they can do their business well.
more than ever, we need to prevent and combat recurrent incidents of hatred and discrimination, which are increasingly fuelled by a violent political climate, and to protect the victims, especially the most vulnerable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rights and values programme has important aims and high-profile objectives, such as promoting respect for human dignity, equality, the environment and the rule of law.
that is also why the commission started, last year, and is now pursuing a debate about more efficient and democratic decision-making in specific policy areas by making use of the passerelle clauses foreseen by the existing eu treaties to allow the use of qualified majority voting in areas such as eu foreign policy, eu tax policy or environment.
only by developing economic activities in the country and establishing a healthy political climate can the protest movements be quelled.
in the first decades after the war, insecurity prevailed with no limited contact with the non-jewish environment.
jew-hatred poisons the social climate as a whole.
the citizens are fed up with austerity, corruption, injustice, privilege and waste.
with the italian move, we are reducing debt through investment-driven growth and cutting waste, we have taken away the pensions of politicians and financed the citizenship income that finland knows very well.
the european funds are essential resources for the development of our territories and for combating water pollution, for example.
in addition to not reducing attacks on livestock, killing natural predators such as wolves and bears is an act that disrupts the ecosystem, increasing the number of ungulates and wild boars, which in turn interfere with agricultural activity.
i conclude by reiterating the message recently launched by the minister for the environment, sergio costa, a strong and important message that must cross italian borders: wolves and bears don't touch each other.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the positive trend in the populations of species considered to be at risk in the union shows that the habitats directive is delivering all the desired results in terms of safeguarding biodiversity.
we need a european action plan, commissioner, which is no longer deferred, and which enables us to identify concrete and immediately applicable actions in order to combine our ambitious objectives in terms of biodiversity with the safety of farmed animals and the economic survival of our farms.
in a few months we will be in the electoral campaign and i, in my college which includes campania, puglia, calabria, abruzzo, basilicata and molise, will not tire of repeating that europe must be changed, but with proposals that are feasible a minute later: less austerity, more social europe, more investment, more erasmus for professionals and structural reforms in the economic field of the organization of the institutions... (the president cut off the speaker)
the agenda includes the report by elisabetta gardini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council decision amending decision no 1313/2013/eu on a union civil protection mechanism (com ((2017) 0772 - c8-0409/2017 - 2017/0309 ((cod)) (a8-0180/2018).
i would like to remind you that fire prevention is also very good for the environment, because there are studies that show that fires cause 20 percent of the world's co2 emissions.
the agenda includes the report by jytte guteland on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the implementation of directive 2009/128/ec on the sustainable use of pesticides (2017/2284 (ini)) (a8-0045/2019).
– mr president, i am delighted to attend today’s plenary session and to discuss the implementation of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides.
i want to start by stressing that we share common concerns and common goals – to protect citizens’ health, to safeguard the environment and to protect animal health – and we share these goals with europeans, who are becoming increasingly interested and engaged in how we produce food and want to ensure this is done in a sustainable way.
this is a rigorous and extensive process to demonstrate that products can be used in a manner which is safe for humans, animals and the environment.
this is why the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides was developed.
it requires member states to adopt national action plans outlining their quantitative objective: targets, measures and timetables to reduce the risks and impacts of pesticide use on human health and in the environment.
this report concluded that, while national action plans represented a significant step towards the sustainable use of pesticides, there were also significant gaps in many, many areas.
your report also notes the importance of low—risk active substances to achieve more sustainable agriculture.
these substances give farmers a tool to control pests while producing high—quality food in a more sustainable manner.
i also share your view that the sustainable use of pesticides should be integrated into the common agricultural policy.
my services will present a second report to the european parliament and council on the implementation of the sustainable use directive later this year.
i think we can all agree that the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides is an important part of a broader sustainable agriculture policy.
two weeks ago we adopted a reflection paper on progress towards a sustainable europe by 2030. it notably called for a genuine change in the way we produce, transform, distribute and consume food.
the full implementation of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides would very much help in this respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while i share the rapporteur's view that we need to reduce the impact of pesticides on the environment and on humans, on the one hand, and to actually improve national action plans, on the other, i believe it is essential not to create a direct link between the objectives set out in directive 2009/128/ec and the current new model for the implementation of the cap.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this report is already a good one, because it protects human health on the one hand and the environment on the other from the risks associated with the use of pesticides.
however, it could be improved, because one cannot speak of the sustainable use of pesticides without considering the entire life cycle of pesticides themselves, from their placing on the market to the setting of maximum residue levels in food.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's approval of the resolution of the pest committee was a significant step towards the effective implementation of the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market, which provides for the authorization of only harmless pesticides, that is to say, those which do not cause any harm to man, animals or the environment.
however, a high level of protection cannot be achieved without proper implementation of the sustainable pesticides directive, which is intended to be the tool to help farmers reduce their dependence on pesticides by replacing them with sustainable alternatives and agro-ecological practices.
so on the one hand, the increase in demand, on the other, the increasingly evident effects of climate change, put us in front of the possibility that areas with drought problems may increase.
it is up to us to find appropriate solutions at european level to maintain the well-being of citizens and, of course, to preserve the environment.
the water framework directive already exists, which mentions the reuse of urban waste water as a supplementary measure for efficient water management.
to give a brief overview of the specifics, we thought it important to define more precisely the main actors involved in urban waste water recovery operations.
particular attention should also be paid to the need for awareness-raising measures which highlight, firstly, the importance of saving water use and, secondly, how the reuse of urban waste water does not harm human and animal health.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must be committed to protecting the health of our citizens and the environment.
the agricultural sector, which is vital for europe and italy, needs new measures and actions to ensure future sustainability without increasing costs for farmers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the territory of the european union is subject to water stress due to human activities and climate change.
not only, as has been said by my colleagues, does this happen in the dry season and in the mediterranean countries, but extreme drought, which is being intensified more and more by climate change, is also increasingly affecting northern europe.
we have proposed decisive action on this, because these should be absent, both from the waters that flow into rivers and seas, to put an end once and for all to the enormous damage to biodiversity that we are doing globally, and of course to the reclaimed waters that are the subject of this regulation, so that their reuse can be allowed.
in two words: yes to water reuse, no to health and environmental risk factors.
it is, at least for me, hard to justify, or even to understand, how bad agricultural practices are still harming the very resources that sustainable agriculture depends on.
because it has not escaped anyone that water is a precious commodity, very precious indeed, and we cannot afford to waste even one cubic metre of it.
so we are faced with the phenomenon of climate change, which, if we do not act quickly and decisively, will cause us great problems and serious difficulties for our economic system as well.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
i ask for the cancellation of the waste of the double seat: this is not an attack on democracy, democracy is not a privilege!
the more time you waste interrupting, the less parliamentarians speak.
many of the members who support it have often provoked the political environment with particular economic assumptions, especially on wages.
this measure could have been a waste of resources, a welfare measure.
singapore has become a model of economic transformation and a prime example of how trade, investment and sustainable development can and should go hand in hand.
the agreement further contains a comprehensive trade and sustainable development chapter that includes obligations in relation to international conventions on workers’ rights and the environment; covers areas like biodiversity, eco-labelling and corporate and social responsibility; and gives a strong role to eu and singapore civil society groups in making sure that these commitments are put into practice.
and here already the singaporean authorities have shown good engagement in preparing for the implementation of the agreement’s sustainable development provisions.
so, delivering on the negotiating mandate, the commission has presented for consent an agreement that tightens the standards on investment protection so as to prevent abuses, an agreement that fully safeguards a government’s right to make new laws to protect health, the environment and other public interests.
it will enable us to step up scientific and technological cooperation in areas such as energy, environment, the fight against climate change, protection of natural resources, smart cities and transport.
the clauses on the protection of workers, consumers and the environment help us to protect citizens from the side effects of globalisation.
to name a few, i refer to the commitments singapore has made to ratify the conventions of the world labour organisation, to respect the paris climate agreement, but also to recognise our geographical indications, such as pdos and docs.
it opens up a significant market area and offers the possibility of enhancing dialogue in the areas of human rights, the environment, climate change and taxation.
giving corporations the power to sue governments for protecting the environment, health and human rights is profoundly wrong.
instead, we should replace it with a system that forces companies to pay for their violations of human rights and the environment, and right now.
i could talk about the individual parts here: air, waste, water, etc., but my colleagues have already done that.
i would like to add one more topic which has not been mentioned here, but which i personally consider important and which relates to sustainable development and the relationship between man and the environment.
i think that when we talk about the environment, how to ensure a decent environment for people, we should not forget that the issue of the status of animals is also related to this, even if indirectly, and we should also mention this issue and not just talk selfishly about our environment.
by the autumn, the necessary one million should be collected, and we should certainly address the issue of not only the environment of people, but also of animals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, mr vice-president, first of all, commissioner katainen is right when he says that if we are to really move towards the sustainable development goals, we need a lot of training, a lot of training.
perhaps a course could be offered to our minister for transport, who just yesterday presented an environmental impact assessment which seems to show that it is much better to send goods and people by tir and cars rather than by trains, as we here in europe believe is better, but we can also show this with data.
in the next mandate i believe we will have to turn this report into concrete instruments of work, taking into account, as many colleagues have said, the social aspects... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, any policy which does not aim at sustainability is a thing of the past, and in this respect the policies of the european union are at the forefront of the world.
over the years, europe has become a pioneer in sustainability, with social and environmental standards among the highest in the world.
but the challenges we face are complex, changing and urgent: from ecological debt to climate change, from democratic change to migration, from inequality to economic and social convergence.
the reflection paper on a sustainable europe by 2030 takes forward the policies already set out in the europe 2020 strategy, and in particular in the un 2030 agenda.
the circular economy has the potential to create over one million new jobs across the union, and clean energy has the potential to create as many.
– madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for the ideas expressed in this lively debate on sustainability.
i would like to give you a couple of examples, namely the paris agreement and our climate legislation, the circular economy package, the plastics strategy, the social dimension and the investment plan for europe, to mention just a few concrete examples of measures already adopted which will have a significant impact on sustainability in the future.
i have tried to take two different ways of looking at sustainability in europe.
the first concerns social sustainability.
i believe that education – training and reskilling people – is the most important social factor in relation to sustainability.
then, looking at the economic angle, i would like to mention the circular economy, including product-design policies and sustainable finance – those three concrete issues.
they are the issues which, i believe, matter most with regard to improving sustainability.
i had a discussion with several representatives of financial institutions, who are pleading with us to create a clear taxonomy and a classification of sustainable finance.
they are saying that their clients are asking for more sustainable assets.
so, if we manage to create sustainable finance criteria and a taxonomy, i’m sure that hundreds of billions of euro will shift direction and this, honourable members, will change the world, including through the circular economy.
the private sector is leading the show here at moment, and this house has been extremely supportive and innovative, supporting too the developments in product-design policy because we, as consumers, are asking for more sustainable business models, more sustainable ways to consume and more durable and repairable products.
so i am not worried at all about whether we can achieve the sustainable development goals, if we just manage to pick the right things to change and also, especially, if we keep the private sector onboard – because it’s not only us, as legislators or regulators, who can change the world.
our role is to create a better playing field, a more sustainable regulatory environment, which will enables us and other stakeholders to do the trick.
i believe we can combine social equality, social sustainability, environmental sustainability and sustainable economic growth in the future, and it should not be rocket science!
we have increased global resources, increased attention to environmental and social issues, increased co-financing rates.
in addition, there are no binding measures on global emissions, no measures and no recognition of international labour conventions, and little protection for our products.
the commission has also taken several steps forward in relation to the 2014-2020 programming period from an environmental and social point of view.
i think we should call it by its proper name, by the appropriate name which means "tax havens", and i think we should also name these tax havens: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the european union in the field of environmental protection.
this initiative will help in the transition from traditional vignette schemes, and tolls with barriers, to modern and smart, free-flow tolling systems, the kind of systems we need in order to shape more sustainable mobility in the future.
the transport system, which is often blamed in this house for environmental problems and sustainability, etc., is actually one of the great protagonists of this europe, which many people talk about without knowing what it is and which we are talking about trying to build.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner vella, i am very honoured to be asked today on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to present the oral question 'a europe that protects: clean air for all'.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the air, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of air pollution in the transport of dangerous goods.
with over 400 000 premature deaths a year, air pollution is unfortunately the number one environmental cause of premature death in europe.
breathing clean air is therefore essential, not only to protect the health of our fellow citizens, but also to ensure that a healthy environment is maintained for the benefit of present and future generations.
poor air quality has a detrimental impact on the maintenance of ecosystem services.
excess atmospheric nitrogen in particular damages the ecosystem, promoting eutrophication of the atmosphere and the appearance of acid rain.
it is for this very reason that the european union has been working since the early 1970s to establish common rules to control the release of harmful substances into the atmosphere and thus improve the quality of fuels and to integrate environmental protection requirements in the transport sector and in the energy sector.
but air pollution crosses national borders and that is why it is of great importance that action to improve air quality be coordinated at union level.
however, despite europe having a solid and uniform legislative framework to combat air pollution, environmental policy measures and instruments adopted in the member states and at local, regional and national level vary enormously from one context to another, from one member state to another.
there are now 30 infringements under way which concern the misapplication of the rules which are supposed to protect the health of european citizens from air pollution.
the message we are sending to the commission today with our question is precisely this: we call on the commission to step up its efforts to closely monitor the implementation of directive 2008/50/ec, industrial emissions, transport and vehicle type approval.
we ask you to give serious consideration to the need to provide answers to the concrete needs of regional and local authorities, which we must strongly support so that they can take effective and systematic measures to reduce transport emissions, also thanks to increased co-financing opportunities in particular under the programmes linked to the next multiannual financial framework.
finally, we call on them to act within the reform of the common agricultural policy to give farmers the tools to help them reduce emissions from their sector, in particular ammonia, and to address the growing human health concerns related to exposure to ultrafine particulate matter.
it must do more because more than 4.2 million people die every year worldwide as a result of air pollution and, according to who data, 91% of the world's population live in places where air quality is below standards.
i personally come from a region, lombardy and in particular northern milan, which is blacklisted because of air pollution caused by excessive levels and very high concentrations of fine dust and nitrogen oxides, and this is because the citizens are suffering from the poor choices of a regional government which unfortunately looks to particular and private interests over the collective good and the protection of the collective interest.
we have seen too many times that the right to breathe clean air has been sacrificed on the altar of huge, useless infrastructure projects, which are aimed at private interests and which are destroying the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the paris agreement and the emissions trading system, the european union has set a clear course for reducing climate-altering emissions harmful to human health.
in the city of taranto, in the south of italy, meanwhile, emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons have increased by 105%.
in taranto children are dying, schools are being closed, the right to education and health is being denied and people are being forced to choose between work and health, while the italian government is not following the implementation of the ilva agreement, is not implementing the institutional development contract, is not chairing the verification of environmental and employment data and is not actively using the resources available to the extraordinary administration.
i ask the commission to support any technically sound proposal by the puglia region for the signing of a programme agreement for taranto, similar to the one signed with the calais region, which committed resources of one billion euro to promote the region's low-carbon economy.
we are determined to make our contribution to mainstreaming gender balance on the eu agenda in order to ensure a fair and equitable environment in our societies and within our labour markets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to waste a single second of my time, but i must do so to express the shame and even the indignation of hearing such shamefully backward voices in this parliament when they speak about women.
for this, we need to work in favour of the real economy, but at the same time we need to work against climate change.
we have common challenges economic, social, environmental, here in these areas, please let us seek unity together.
this is the europe we want: a europe that supports the weakest businesses and protects our consumers, with transparent rules that ensure the quality of products and the sustainability of production processes.
having said that, i believe that afghanistan and the european union need an agreement that supports bilateral political dialogue to consolidate the internal stability of the country, without forgetting, and putting at the centre, civil rights, the rule of law, judicial reform, sustainable development and the fight against corruption.
we could certainly do more about the time taken to implement these standards, which are too long, and about the accessibility requirements for the built environment.
i only make one appeal: i ask my colleagues, the commission and the council to say enough of austerity policies, enough of limiting investment in energy efficiency and renewables, because they are what will save us for the future, enough of counting them as debt, we must cut them out of the stability pact.
the second issue which is very important, and certainly more important than brexit, for the future of the union is that of climate change.
we must intervene in the european semester, in order to focus it on the environmental objectives of sustainable development of the european union and the united nations, without turning it into a semester on austerity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every five seconds a person dies worldwide as a result of exposure to air pollution.
the consequences of these climatic conditions are undeniable, since 90% of the world's population is exposed to air pollution.
air pollution causes 7 million premature deaths worldwide every year, including 600 000 children aged five and under: more people die from aids than from war, murder, tuberculosis, and malaria combined.
i, on the other hand, care about the interests of all those billions of people who do not pollute, but who suffer the effects of air pollution and climate change.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must be very careful, because we will not allow you to circumvent the opinion of this house and the peoples it represents and thus open trade negotiations with the united states of america which are in reality a kind of 'escamotage' treaty which puts health and the environment at risk, which allows the unconditional entry of agricultural products and fisheries from the usa, for example.
and this is a positive example of the capacity of this parliament to produce legislation and also to be, in some way, a subject that when something does not work well, some authorities, some trends, some positions, solutions that maybe may be good for some conferences but then produce problems and negative impact on the real economy, this parliament knows how to correct and balance the necessary reduction of risk and non-performing loans, on the one hand, with the safeguarding of financial stability, the interests of citizens, debtors, small and medium-sized enterprises and produce a regulation that i think will have a significant impact, on the other hand, in greater prudence and therefore in disincentives that can then lead to an excessive accumulation of non-performing loans, but at the same time it does so in a sustainable way, in a manageable way, without negative impact on the real economy.
– madam president, the commission welcomes parliament’s annual strategic report on the implementation and delivery of the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
the commission published the reflection paper towards a sustainable europe by 2030 to inspire this debate.
let me underline that these three scenarios all rely on a shared premise in the commission that we need enhanced commitment in europe if we are to secure a sustainable future and achieve the sdgs by 2030 and beyond.
the core sustainability challenge for europe, as well as for other most developed parts of the world, is to find the way to increase our prosperity and to improve our wellbeing without destroying our natural habitat and exceeding the boundaries of our planet.
we have to put our food system onto a fully sustainable path and we have to green our energy, mobility and built environment.
there is no sustainability without social sustainability and being who we are in europe all our actions need to fully respect the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, as well as inclusiveness, facts, evidence.
let us now move forward with confidence and optimism, for europe is the best place in the world to lead the way to sustainability transition.
we have the skills, we have the brains, we have the people, we are the best connected continent and sustainability is deeply rooted in the european project.
i said earlier this week in the informal general affairs council that, in both the way we should organise the commission and our work, the sdgs could be a perfect framework for how we distribute the work and how we make sure that we take the right steps towards a sustainable future for europe.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great contradiction between this house (in which we are so few) and the squares throughout europe, where tomorrow thousands of young people will go out to strike, to protest, to draw our attention to the climate, to climate change which threatens our future and to the inequalities which continue to have a devastating effect on the cohesion and well-being of european society.
they understood that the fight for environmental justice goes hand in hand with the fight for social justice.
what it takes to implement the 2030 sustainable development goals are three things, which i don't see in here yet: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
we would need a big green new deal of investment to be able to accompany the ecological transition that is so essential to our economy.
since we were in new york for the adoption of the sustainable development agenda, we have been calling - and we are calling in today's report - for a european strategy to implement the sustainable development goals, with a mechanism for coordination between the member states and adequate monitoring of the achievement of these goals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainability and the transition to a climate-neutral, circular and socially inclusive economy are fundamental to ensuring the long-term growth and competitiveness of the european union.
however, the commission has not yet defined a comprehensive strategy for the implementation of the 2030 agenda covering the internal and external policy areas of the european union with detailed timelines up to 2030, nor has it included the sustainable development goals as a general framework in the revised 2017 guidelines.
the revenue of the next multiannual financial framework will have to be more oriented towards the sustainable development objectives.
secondly, to promote sustainable development and good governance.
we increased the attractiveness of gsp+ and enhanced the gsp+ monitoring of effective implementation of core international conventions related to human rights, labour rights, protection of the environment and good governance.
in return, it requires the respect of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour and the environment.
i therefore support the idea of safeguard measures not only for agricultural or industrial products but also for the respect of social and environmental rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, gsps represent a tariff reduction for developing countries, aid which is granted in return for commitments to standards of human rights and sustainable development, which are often ignored.
the serious shortcomings of the environmental management mechanisms for waste from the manufacturing sector, especially the textile sector, in these countries are well known.
we cannot impose ever stricter and more punitive rules on our companies and reward those who do not respect even the minimum environmental standards and civil rights outside the borders of europe.
thirdly, the lack of animal welfare standards also has a number of environmental consequences.
i am referring, for example, to the algal blooms, the creation of so-called dead zones, real dead zones near aquaculture sites, with possible effects on natural fish resources and biodiversity.
there are many things that can be done, apart from of course introducing stricter standards and enforcing existing ones: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new directive on the protection of the environment.
firstly, there is a lack of an adequate and necessary impact assessment by the european commission, indicating the negative effects that the change in the time schedule would have on people's lives, their productivity and the environment.
in addition, this directive would have effects which are currently not estimated and unclear on a number of cross-cutting sectors such as agriculture, trade, where there could be distortions of competition, and energy, which could see an exponential increase in annual consumption.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the internal market in electricity (com ((2016) 0864 - c8-0495/2016 - 2016/0380 ((cod)) (a8-0044/2018), the report by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the internal market in electricity (com ((2016) 0861 - c8-0492/2016 - 2016/0379 ((cod)) (a8-0042/2018)), the report by morten helveg petersen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and the european parliament (com ((2016) 0493 - c8-049848/2016)), the report by the committee on industry, research and energy (com (2016) 04938)), and the report by the committee on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the european parliament and the european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and the european union agency for the national energy regulatory agency for research and the regulation of the regulation of the regulatory affairs of the energy union agency for the european union agency for the european union agency for the european union agency for the european energy and the research agency for the national energy and research agency for the research agency for the research agency for energy (agency) (a8-0048/2016-0086/2016)
the rapporteur.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we took the first steps on this crucial package of proposals for the energy union, many months ago, we knew that the road ahead would not be easy.
there were and are many interests at stake and many obstacles to the integration of energy markets.
the dynamics, as demonstrated by the crisis in winter 2017 in south-east europe, affects european citizens by impacting on the availability of services, energy prices, household financial equilibrium and industrial production.
the question was, and is, how to facilitate - in the context of an energy crisis - the movement of energy under certain conditions to where it is most needed in the union, regardless of national political boundaries.
as a parliament, we therefore had a task above all others, namely to ensure that the criteria for mutual cooperation in the event of an energy crisis were sufficiently stringent, both in terms of the methodologies for assessing scenarios between countries, and therefore the principle of interoperability, and in terms of the criteria for mutual assistance.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new electricity market reform package will make it possible to empower customers, simplify the crossborder electricity market, ensure security of supply and facilitate climate-friendly electricity generation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources, such as solar panels, wind turbines, solar panels, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, however, i do not think the agreement is ambitious enough in terms of the transition to clean energy and self-production with self-consumption, which should be strengthened even further.
you have supported and strengthened the level of ambition in the ‘clean energy for all europeans’ proposals, and europe can be fully satisfied with the results.
i trust that in your vote tomorrow you will maintain your ambitious approach and thereby remain such an important player in defining our future energy policy fit for the 21st century.
for sure, implementation will be decisive, and we will use governmental relations for facilitating the need in the context of national plans for energy and climate.
as regards the few critical remarks which have come from one part of this house, although i have listened to them carefully, i would point out that they do not concern the debate which is under way, but the question of whether it is appropriate to create a single energy market, with all the consequences that this entails and with the objectives we have set ourselves.
so the debate is moving on to a subject which is completely different and which is not the single energy market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two years after our committee of inquiry tried to shed light on the dieselgate scandal, inertia and inefficiency are the words that best describe the response of the european commission, the member states and the car manufacturers to the emissions scandal.
as long as the 43 million dirty diesel vehicles remain on the road because of the lack of mandatory recalls throughout europe, as long as the manufacturers have not paid for defrauding the citizens and for polluting the air we breathe in our cities, we cannot put an end to the emissions scandal.
the world's eyes are on the european union as a world leader in the fight against climate change.
this directive affirms principles that parliament has endorsed several times over the years, in particular the responsibility of platforms and a better balance with the economic environment in which they operate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we europeans must have great ambition with this directive, to make the world understand that even the actors of the digital ecosystem cannot trample on the rights, violate the dignity of people, exploit and underpay the work of others, ignore the effort to invest in skills and professionalism and launch defamation and intimidation campaigns against the representatives of european citizens.
it is therefore neither a luxury nor a waste of public resources.
regional policy supports job creation, competitiveness between businesses, economic growth, sustainable development and the improvement of the quality of life of citizens in all regions and cities of the union.
five are the priorities: firstly, innovative, smart and inclusive development; a greener, low-carbon, resilient europe that can meet the challenge of the energy transition; a more interconnected europe, improving the mobility of people; a more social and inclusive europe, implementing the european pillar of social rights, for a new welfare, for a new pact between european citizens and europe; a europe closer to the citizens, promoting sustainable development and integrating cities and non-urban areas through local initiatives.
the following are the choices at the heart of the new erdf and cohesion policy regulation: we have established a thematic concentration, which provides for all categories of regions to allocate at least 30% of the resources of the objective relating to the environmental challenge; we have introduced elements of flexibility to allow for more local development-oriented policies in those regions that need it.
i know that there are still open questions, particularly on environmental issues, which concern the practical interests of citizens' lives: we'll discuss it and vote.
how can we support greta thunberg's fantastic initiative and also the climate strike of our young people, when this house, by introducing dangerous exceptions, actually makes it possible to use the only really redistributive policy of the european union for investments in fossil fuels?
for today, for the future, i ask all members to support the amendments on the stability pact and the environment.
it must not be spending; it must be smart and sustainable investment.
the common provisions regulation introduces a new dedicated policy objective – a europe closer to citizens – by fostering the sustainable and integrated development of urban, rural and coastal areas through local initiatives, which should allow for a well-integrated, multi-sectoral approach to urban development.
on the subject of thematic concentration, we have been in line with the indications given to us by the commission but we have strengthened, as was right, the regional dimension, otherwise it would have been a vain concentration from this point of view, as, i would say to those who have raised the environmental issue, never has a programme concentrated so many resources for the next few years to deal with environmental challenges at local, territorial and regional level: we are over 30% of the resources.
a cross-border infrastructure network for rail, road, energy, digital infrastructure, jobs for young people, energy security, the internal market and the digital single market, research in the field of large-scale research, support for smes - all these are keywords where added value can be achieved in a european way, in the team of europe.
fourthly, and lastly, a comment on cooperation with the european central bank, which is also mentioned in your resolution: as regards access to ecb documents which we need to carry out our audit tasks, the atmospheric conditions have improved lately.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, any person of good sense, any good father of a family, any good mother of a family, would look at the cost of this landfill and see that there is a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot of waste.
it is a waste of time, which, of course, would not be worth a plenary session.
i shall merely mention a few of them, to remind you of them, and to hope that a little common sense will enter the heads of those who run this institution, so that this waste will be reduced.
we are forcing tirs to go from strasbourg to brussels, from brussels to strasbourg, with an increase in pollution of 15 000 tonnes of co2.
there is much talk of europe's ambition to reduce pollution by 40% by 2030; however, i fear that this is contributing to it.
you think you're going to spend 33 million euros on the campaign, and you think you're going to hide the waste of this car.
however, there are still many general waste, starting with this parliament, with the double seat, with the many privileges of members and even commissioners, which we could manage better, as well as the many administrative expenditure which is so much in dispute, on which action could be taken more firmly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, greenhouse gas emissions in europe increased as well as the average co2 emissions of new cars, due to the consumption of oil in road transport.
all of this tells us how important the regulation we are adopting is, because it will drive the decarbonisation of the automotive sector, which is needed now more than ever, and transform the car and van market into a sustainable one, stimulating the spread of zero- and low-emission vehicles.
i am proud to have worked for the five star movement on this regulation and to have also helped to contain the attacks of those who would like to anchor the european car to a fossil fuel future, at the expense of the environment and the health of our fellow citizens.
europe is moving towards the new development model, a low- and zero-carbon economy, a virtuous alliance between growth and the environment, production and industry, with less energy waste and pollution.
transport currently contributes 25% of emissions and over 70% is accounted for by road transport.
today, the transport sector accounts for 5% of european gdp, a wealth that we spend largely on medicine and hospitals to deal with the pollution in our cities and to repair the damage caused by climate change.
this regulation sets binding and ambitious targets for the emissions and fuel economy of cars and vans.
he says no more lab tests that don't reflect real emissions and he wants data in real driving conditions.
we must change and this regulation is a step in the right direction towards a different way of life, one that is more respectful of people and the environment.
on migration, we stress the need for a holistic and long-term approach and address the root causes of regular, irregular and forced migration, including a reference to climate refugees.
we also consider it important to tackle climate change, also in relation to the agreements reached, including the paris agreement, and the percentage of expenditure on climate change has been increased to 45% in the regulation objectives, an ambitious target compared to the one proposed by the commission.
finally, as regards the part of the instrument dealing with peace and stability, we would like to emphasize clearly that the funds in this area must be used to create conditions for ensuring sustainable development and cannot be used for the purchase of arms and ammunition or for operations with military or defence implications.
i must say that i have been faced with questions similar to those raised by the rapporteur in her opinion on libe: the text, which was supposed to promote the fundamental principles of the european union, such as gender equality, human rights, respect for the environment and cultures, is in its most legislative part an attempt to allocate funds to manage migration flows, to define 'legal' and 'illegal' human beings and to fortify european borders.
the new and ambitious instrument will enable greater strength and unity in action in respect of the universal rights of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, socioeconomic integration and environmental protection.
this report calls for improved cooperation between the eu member states and our southern neighbours towards a partnership focused on human rights, sustainable socio-economic development and democracy, which we see as a priority.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not going to talk about brexit, but about the climate.
of course, there has been recognition of the need to step up global efforts to tackle climate change.
but, beyond the programmes, the european summit has not succeeded in drawing up a clear line on supporting decarbonisation by 2050, an objective that is not even mentioned but only subordinated to industrial competitiveness and to that obscure specificity of the member states which in reality conceals the sovereign prerogative of each country to choose its own energy mix and thus, in certain cases, to preserve the role of coal and the most polluting fossil sources in the economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the mobility package is a painstaking effort by the committees responsible to bring some order to a sector characterized by fierce competition, which not only creates unacceptable living conditions for drivers but also puts the lives of all european citizens on the road at risk and contributes powerfully to co2 emissions.
until the availability of a strong and fast rail freight transport, thanks to tnt, reduces co2 emissions on our roads, i believe it is essential to reach a reasonable agreement to modernise the sector and guarantee the safety and quality of work for drivers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, vice-commissioner, plastic has a negative impact on marine biological resources and the environments that host them, because it also harms fisheries and poses a risk to human health, since this waste, fragmenting, ends up back in the food chain and therefore also on our tables.
i think we should be proud of a vote that takes us two important steps forward: first, to combat a wrong throwaway culture, waste of raw materials, unbridled consumerism; second, to defend the oceans, one of the earth's fundamental lungs.
this has a terrible impact on our environment and our seas.
i believe that these members and the political forces which have supported these positions must bear a great responsibility, because they have prevented us from making progress towards a better future and a safer environment.
i think it is clear that there is a misunderstanding here because if, as mr pedicini said, we have eliminated single-use plastic products but there will be single-use products of any other material, i would like to understand what the environment gains from this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to tackle the problem of single-use plastic pollution in the oceans and seas, we must act where we can have a positive and virtuous leverage effect.
the only significant and lasting solution is to impose separate collection of this waste in the asian and african countries, the real polluters of the sea.
what is the point of europe, as is happening, concluding free trade agreements with countries which do not share our environmental protection policy?
it is almost as if we did not know that geographical boundaries do not stop the pollution of the seas, the air and the land.
paradoxically, these trade agreements encourage low-cost production, which is not environmentally sustainable, and unfair competition towards our companies.
the european community data shows that 95% of plastic pollution of the seas and oceans comes from asian and african countries, the same countries with which we are concluding trade agreements, without thinking at all about the environmental aspect, as well as human rights, as well as women's rights, as well as the prohibition of child labour.
this was the thing that needed to be emphasized: it's not the environment, it's the way this community works that's not working.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the young people who have taken to the streets all over the world in recent weeks have asked us to act urgently, to do something quickly for sustainable development.
europe is taking action and is making another point in favour of the environment and the fight against plastic pollution, especially in our seas, not only in the oceans but also in the mediterranean sea, where entire islands of waste have been created.
with this new directive we are banning single-use plastic products such as cotton wool, dishes and cutlery, which are among the main causes of marine pollution, for which there are already alternatives available on the market, which are recyclable and have the potential to last longer.
in short, today we are taking an important step forward in the transition to a circular economy, which we in europe have understood firsthand and immediately, and the importance of maintaining a high level of growth and well-being for our citizens, protecting the environment and remaining competitive in the world.
the proposal aims to reduce plastic waste and fishing nets, which account for as much as 70% of the waste deposited on our beaches.
this is a first step towards a sea change that will allow us to gradually abolish plastic and end the pollution of our land.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i think this is an example of how patience leads to good advice and good results, because we have done something very important here: we have opened up the single market to many very small and mediumsized enterprises, which were previously excluded from the single market, such as organic, organominerals, biostimulants, specialties and so on, and we have done so with great attention to the environment, even putting limits, especially on cadmium - how difficult it was - which was not there before!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, quality fertilising products are and will be increasingly important for the development of more productive and at the same time sustainable agricultural models, which in the future will have to respond to the pressing challenge of access to food, producing more but using less inputs and polluting less.
the outcome of the negotiations demonstrates that the union is a global leader in sustainable development, creating the conditions for the ever-increasing diffusion of innovative, effective and environmentally friendly products, in full coherence with the circular economy model.
the text, which was broadly approved by the tran committee, is a key step in the mobility package, which aims to decongest europe's roads and facilitate the shift of goods to other more environmentally sustainable transport modes.
in the face of european citizens who are now demanding more than ever protection and respect for the environment, parliament's commitment to more sustainable mobility is both necessary and desirable.
the problem is not the cost of democracy, but the waste that democracy sometimes generates, and in this parliament, over the last five years, i have highlighted a number of such waste, starting with the funds that are given every year to european foundations and parties: the budget for next year is almost eur 63 million.
the total budget has risen from 1 737 000 000 in 2014 to over 2 050 000 000 in 2014. you can see that it is difficult to campaign for the people, saying that we are saving money, when in fact the budget has increased in recent years and even for next year, in the event of brexit, with about 50 fewer members, this parliament continues to increase expenditure and waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to confirm our vote on this important directive on the right to drinking water, which the european commission has decided to update after more than 20 years, in order to better respond to the new challenges of climate change and to ensure a proper transition to a circular economy, to reduce water waste and the production of plastic waste.
and speaking of transparency and health, one cannot ignore the serious pfas pollution that took place in italy, in the veneto region, and that affected almost half a million citizens who now have levels of these endocrine disruptors in their blood hundreds of times higher than normal.
– mr president, i very much welcome the messages from parliament, confirming that the european union should respond and act in the interests of our citizens and that everybody supports the sustainable development goal 6 and better access to water.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the audiovisual sector, which will be part of the digital economy, a digital ecosystem, where the audiovisual media services directive and the directive on copyright, which was adopted on tuesday, will create new rules and also greater financial resources for the sector.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of climate change, and for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
to move to action, you need resources, you need investment: to invest in the conversion of our industries, to train workers in new skills, to build innovative and sustainable infrastructure, such as mobility and digital infrastructure.
the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the financial support for the development of the european union's energy infrastructure.
the decision-makers, whether individual citizens or large investors, must have reliable and transparent information on the environmental impact and sustainability of the economic activities on which financial products are based.
i would urge everyone to strengthen it by supporting the amendments tabled on the extension of the scope of application to all financial products, not just those already green, and on the need to decline sustainability in both dimensions: the social and environmental.
a political overview that the regulation, with the specifications it contains, can offer to european citizens, to the business system, to that large part of public opinion which we perceive as being close to the idea that the development compass must be sustainable and, therefore, also inclusive.
the password: to regenerate the places of life in use to human capital, within the renewed focus on sustainability, to counter any form of insult to the ecosystem and to the health of people, to affirm the idea that poverty must be countered, precisely, with choices of vision.
it seems to us therefore necessary to link the most important political choices of recent years: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation is a good one.
i think that one of the most relevant indicators should be the exclusion from investment of activities focused on the generation of energy from fossil fuels.
finally, the european regional development fund will be used for environmentally sustainable development and employment.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to amend the directive on the protection of the environment by introducing a new directive on the protection of the environment.
we are strongly engaged against climate change.
a genuine common energy policy will reduce costs for citizens and businesses, while at the same time the use of renewable energy sources will be an important input in ensuring the competitiveness of entire energy-intensive sectors.
we must continue on the path started with the legislative packages for reforming the energy and gas markets and support the necessary establishment of connecting infrastructure, including alternative ones, which guarantee security of supply.
we have managed to limit the budget for research, for data collection, for the protection of ecosystems, for the protection of biodiversity, but we have asked and were asking, at least we greens, for something much more significant and important, such as 25%.
that means giving importance, yes, to environmental priorities, but when there is a reduction in fishing effort, that is where the funds must act.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i would remind you that among the species covered by this plan, there are some that, according to the researchers, according to the science, are being fished four or five times over the level of maximum sustainable yield.
our seabed is diverse, and our fishing has always adapted to geographical characteristics without affecting biodiversity.
the proposal includes measures to improve the conservation of resources and the environmental sustainability of stocks.
however, in order to achieve social and economic sustainability alongside environmental sustainability, it is necessary to approve the proposed changes to achieve a balance and reduce the impact on the territories.
we must stand together to ensure greater social and environmental justice against all forms of unfair competition.
it is not just millions of jobs, our relevance on the global chessboard and the preservation of the environment that are at stake.
it is clear that in this climate of indiscriminate opening up china has no interest in changing the status quo, but the situation is not sustainable for our companies and above all for our workers, who are forced to compete on the basis of social and environmental dumping.
finally, greater attention should be paid to the assessment of environmental and social risks, and measures should be encouraged to address these risks appropriately.
the hell of libya reminds us all of our responsibilities: the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by dan nica, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing horizon europe - the framework programme for research and innovation - and laying down the rules for its participation and dissemination (com ((2018) 0435 - c8-0252/2018 - 2018/0224 (cod)) (a8-0401/2018), and the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing the specific programme for the implementation of horizon europe - the framework programme for research and innovation (com ((2018) 0436 - c8-0253/2018 - 2018/0225 (cod)) (a8-0410/2018).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur on both sides of the legislative aisle, i am pleased that we have struck the right balance between research and innovation, that we have pushed for a particular focus on climate change, that we have supported the transversal nature and inclusion of the social sciences and humanities in all programme activities and, moreover, that we have ensured adequate support not only for universities and research centres, for start-ups, but also for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises through a tool for small and medium-sized enterprises.
as regards the structure of the decision, the areas of intervention identified in the global challenges and european industrial competitiveness pillar allow action to be taken on health, culture, safety, including natural disasters, but also on industry, climate, energy and mobility, food, natural resources, agriculture and the environment in order to improve the well-being of european citizens.
we have heard from greta today and i think that the best way to ensure a future for young people is to commit as many resources as possible to tackling climate change and the new challenges it poses.
we are quite satisfied with 35% of the activities dedicated to climate, the focus on smes, cultural heritage, social and human priorities.
the nuclear threat, climate change, they all prove it.
that said, we are here in this house expressing a common and concrete aspiration of the citizens of europe to build together a strong union capable of meeting the challenges of our time, because, on its own, a member state as small as yours or as populous as my country, italy or france or others, not only you reminded us, cannot do anything against the negative effects of globalisation or climate change, but it cannot even ensure its own defence or ensure economic development of any importance for its country.
investing in the environment, in the state of the climate, investing in health technology, developing in this area, these are topics that i think are extremely important, and if europe wants to keep up with other powers that are investing large sums in innovation and research, it is not enough to have national money, but there must be such significant european incentives.
the fact that 35% of funding is allocated to climate-friendly technologies is certainly an important signal: eur 35 billion out of 100 total allocated for the period 2021-2027. i share the mission-based approach, focusing on specific and clearly defined objectives, such as urban decarbonisation meeting the need identified in the current horizon 2020, and focusing on specific thematic objectives.
the current framework was no longer sustainable with european companies facing heavy competition from non-eu producers not subject to similar restrictions and forced to relocate plants by entering into binding agreements with host countries.
the regulation we are supporting fills a serious gap by establishing for the first time in europe, after much resistance, after more than ten years of debate, common limits and standards on co2 emissions from heavy duty vehicles, which account for 6% of the total emissions in the union, and which are destined to increase.
in addition to ambitious but achievable co2 reduction targets, we have introduced a road compliance test to obtain real driving emissions and fuel consumption data.
the commission is also asked to provide a methodology for assessing the emissions of heavy-duty vehicles throughout their life cycle, from design to scrapping.
finally, in the transition to decarbonisation of the transport sector, which is still 94% dependent on oil, the role of natural gas must be considered, but above all it is essential that the european commission establishes a fund for the retraining and support of workers in the sector, in order to make the transition socially and environmentally sustainable.
this regulation is a further step in the process of moving europe towards a new model of development based on the alliance between industry and the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy.
the agenda includes the report by mr andrzej grzyb, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/33/ec on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport (com (2017) 0653-c8-0393/2017-2017/0291 (cod)) (a8-0321/2018).
digitisation, social housing, research, energy efficiency and urban transport are just some of the key areas that today don’t find adequate financing on the market.
during the negotiations, the parliament has had a key role in maintaining the focus of this instrument on policy steer, in strengthening the accountability and transparency provisions, and in raising ambitions for the climate targets.
it is the people's europe that grows on the horizon of sustainability and social inclusion.
investeu is support for the circular economy, environmental infrastructure.
thanks to a flexible interpretation of the stability pact and then to new initiatives such as the european fund for strategic investments, we have started a correction of the direction of economic policy, but new important investment gaps have opened up in the areas related to innovation, tangible, intangible and social infrastructure and climate change.
in addition to further strengthening support for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, innovation and sustainable infrastructure, this programme will address the huge gap in social infrastructure, ensuring the real feasibility of projects in the fields of education, health and social housing.
the text we are voting on tomorrow is therefore a balanced text overall, including the important part which requires at least 55% of the investment under the sustainable infrastructure window which contributes to achieving the objectives of the paris climate and environment agreements.
we know that investeu will be an important, necessary but not sufficient part of what will be our political priority in the next legislature: implement an extraordinary investment programme to support the conversion, the ecological conversion of the economy, social sustainability, the revival of growth, innovation and employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is my last speech in this parliament and i am pleased to be addressing this issue which is at the interface with environmental sustainability, on which i have worked so hard over the years.
the paris agreement represents a formidable investment opportunity that we cannot afford to waste.
financial market participants and financial advisors will have an obligation to integrate environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities into their processes as part of their duty to act in the best interests of clients.
the new rules, together with the carbon neutrality agenda and the eu sustainable development agenda, link finance to the needs of the real economy, helping to achieve the 2012 un sustainable development goals and the targets set by the paris agreement.
but the government didn't stop there, it started to hunt down journalists and independent media as well, spreading a climate of terror throughout the country.
we have heard you speak of a fair and just europe, of protecting the environment and of women and workers.
we welcome the finnish presidency's programme, with its focus on the important issues of climate change, human rights and strengthening the rule of law.
the aim of the forthcoming council presidency to make europe more social and sustainable has long been a key demand of the european greens.
however, the essence is that a system whereby people must resort to smugglers cannot be part of a sustainable approach to migration or asylum.
however, ad hoc solutions cannot be sustainable.
– mr president, i would like to thank the council and the commission for their very clear commitment to finding sustainable solutions because sometimes i feel a little bit like i am in the twilight zone.
we need a sustainable arrangement, not a temporary arrangement.
let us remember the advance of global warming and the population growth of the african continent, which will explode in a few years.
secondly, the european union must guarantee the geopolitical stability of north africa and at the same time contribute to the pursuit of sustainable and just development in the countries of origin.
(the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, climate change is the greatest challenge that mankind has ever faced.
we are facing a huge challenge of mitigation, adaptation and protection of biodiversity.
it is against this backdrop that antónio guterres has called for the climate action summit in new york as early as next week with the aim of encouraging heads of state to increase their contribution to reducing emissions.
we are the most ambitious economy in the world in tackling climate change, an ambition reinforced by the new commission.
in the previous mandate i was part of the negotiating team on the energy union governance regulation and we managed to get a strong agreement and we can now go even further.
– mr president, thank you for this rich and engaging debate, which demonstrates that climate policy and development goals policy are truly at the heart of the european debate.
our energy legislation was approved in this house with 80%, on average, of the votes cast.
our climate legislation was approved here with more than 78% of the votes cast.
there was wide support for the efforts that the commission had put on the table to deliver ambitious climate policy.
we europeans have the most ambitious nationally determined contribution (ndc) of all those expressed by the parties to the climate convention, reducing our emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared with 1990. but what is most important is that we have all the binding legislation needed to achieve this target and in fact – thanks to parliament’s ambition – to over—achieve this target, because with the current legislation we will reduce our emissions by 45%.
so we have an ambitious target, we have binding legislation, and we have strong governance in the form of integrated national climate action plans.
so we have ambitious commitments, we have strong legislation and we have put on the table a very ambitious climate-neutral study for 2050. in the october council, 24 member states endorsed this legislation – there are only four missing at the moment – and i have high expectations that in the december council this climate neutrality for 2050 will be a reality in the european union.
it will be extremely important: climate neutrality in 2050 is much more ambitious than the pathways of the international panel on climate change (ipcc), because the ipcc says that globally we have to become climate neutral after 2060 and before 2080. we will become the first major economy to become climate neutral in 2050, and that’s a good story to tell, notably because, in the new commission, the president-elect has committed to proposing a european green deal in the first 100 days of her term, and that will include the first european climate law to enshrine the 2050 climate neutrality target.
in addition, the president-elect wants to reduce emissions by 50% in 2030 and not by 2055. so we will go to new york with a good story.
and we will go too with lots of support for developing countries to be able to implement climate action, because what is important is not that the european union is the most ambitious it has ever been, and that we are delivering and will deliver on our commitments, but that we are also supporting other people in delivering and are doing outreach to convince the world that it has to work in this direction.
we are the biggest donor of climate finance to developing countries, more than eur 20 billion every year, so we can be proud of what we have done.
we have a lot of ground to cover because we have to work to be world leaders, because if we are world leaders – developing renewables, developing energy efficiency, phasing out fossil fuels and creating growth and jobs in the green economy – then the rest of the world will follow us.
so we have a responsibility because if the european union does not assume the leadership then nobody will assume it – here, in climate policy or on the sustainable development goals.
becoming climate neutral is a revolution, an economic and social revolution, bigger probably than the industrial revolution, because it changes the way you produce energy, changes the way you heat and cool, changes how your industry is going to produce goods and the means whereby we transport ourselves.
changing the way our agriculture has to reduce methane emissions and the use of fertilisers is a big revolution and it produces different impacts in different territories.
so we will be ambitious on climate policy but we also have to look after our citizens, our people, so that this is a socially just and fair transition.
he referred to the impact of trade agreements and to mercosur in relation to climate policy.
i just want to say that the european union is strongly committed to leveraging its trade policy to promote climate action in partner countries and to project our approach to climate policies and standards.
it has an ambitious, dedicated ‘trade and sustainable development’ chapter, including legally binding commitments related to environmental protection and climate change, and with respect to the paris agreement it contains the strongest form of commitment.
each party commits individually to effectively implementing the paris climate agreement, including in respect of the nationally determined contributions.
today, more than 2 billion people - one third of the world's population - are estimated to be totally destitute and poor, and increasingly threatened by livelihood and social problems, including climate change.
it is estimated that by 2030, an additional 100 million people could be affected by severe deprivation and more than 200 million people could be displaced due to climate change and climate disasters.
this means that climate change could hamper the success of important global efforts to end the world's poverty, such as the un's sustainable development goals, which aim to end extreme poverty within 15 years.
poor communities and low-income countries are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change, and those who are poorest suffer far more than the average.
if we don't act quickly, climate change will catalyze the growth of poverty.
we therefore need a platform to combat climate change and poverty and a comprehensive eu anti-poverty strategy where we can come up with integrated solutions to address these global problems.
we can't let that go to waste.
not only will this improve the rights of lgbt people, women and minorities, it will also improve environmental and other protection measures, and ban the outrageous ‘triple talaq’ divorce.
it is scientifically proven that the development of cancer diseases depends largely on the direct correlation between the environment, diet and man.
the fight against cancer can only be tackled by a substantial, not just formal, environmental battle, and by providing relentless support for research into targeted therapies, such as biological drugs, the use of which has been shown to be more effective and less toxic than chemotherapeutic drugs, which are sometimes used inadequately, as i have often seen in my experience as a doctor.
we cannot tell young people that there is less money for tackling climate change, because they care about the future of their planet.
in particular, all the financial targets related to climate change have to be strongly defended and promoted in the 2020 budget.
as shadow rapporteur, i have dealt with the european agencies, and it is important to increase both the funding and the staff of the agencies whose action positively affects environmental policies, labour policies and migration policies.
the cuts should not penalise programmes that bring economic, social and environmental added value to the union.
that is why we welcomed the cut in administrative expenditure of eur 55 million, which was always proposed by the council, because that is where the waste is.
this is the line we intend to take forward and through our amendments to the 2020 budget we have asked the union to cut waste and maximize wages.
we want a more efficient europe, one that does not waste and that has more growth.
the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against gmos is not only a health and environmental battle, but also an ethical one, my dear colleague.
the preservation of typical products from traditional and historical crops will, on the one hand, preserve biodiversity and, on the other, give the agricultural and rural world a new economic energy and source of income.
we have seen people come out and vote in large numbers, expecting europe to do more – students, researchers, farmers, people in the cities and in the villages, people who expect more security, and people who expect us to innovate, to research more and better deliver on digital, and to tackle climate change – and it is our duty to listen to them and to deliver it to them.
that is why, if the objectives are ambitious - ecological transition, youth employment, research, structural funds - we must link up revenue that is genuinely european.
we cannot fail to recognize that a major climate change is taking place, generating more and more intense and extreme weather events.
and then we cannot help but point out that this climate change is partly conditioned by the anthropological development of global warming and therefore pollution.
but the first expected results, which will also have an effect on climate effects, will perhaps take decades.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's conclusions on climate change leave much to be desired.
it's not by taxing that you solve the climate change problem, but by allowing, for example, local administrators to intervene without being put in jail or accused of defacing the land.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there are two pillars of the general budget which we are about to approve, on the one hand, employment, growth and the social dimension, and on the other, the environment and the fight against climate change.
they are the ones who have asked us to take exceptional action on climate change, and they are the ones who need measures and tools to enter the labour market, to grow, to train, to be able to see their talents and skills fulfilled.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, more cuts in waste, more investment for the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the socialists have proposed and have obtained that the main theme of this plenary session be the climate and ecological emergency.
and the european commission wants to force the whole continent into unrealizable environmental programmes with unrealistic timelines, often useless and in many cases even wrong plans because they have a negative impact on important productive realities and have a cost that ultimately falls on consumers.
we all want to protect the environment, but we can no longer afford policies and slogans made up of only taxes and environmental facts.
essentially, the resolution addresses, on the one hand, what the commission can do and what the new commission can do, and then the member states, because for the member states, this blame game, which is simply not demonstrating our values but passing around the blame, will continue to drain our resources, but ultimately it will require us to make difficult decisions: difficult decisions which ultimately will be the right moral decisions in the mediterranean, but also sustainable decisions and proactive ones.
there has to be a permanent sustainable solution.
we need a sustainable and reliable approach to search and rescue at sea, as we are calling for in this proposal.
at that time, we jointly called on the eu institutions and member states to recognise that patients everywhere in the eu, regardless of their country of origin, have the right to equitable access to high-quality care, to commit to sustainable investment in healthcare, or to ensure that medicines, medical devices and services are truly accessible to all.
recall that the european union is egypt's first economic partner and its main source of foreign investment, with the european union's bilateral assistance to egypt under the european neighbourhood instrument amounting to approximately eur 500 million for the period 2017-2020; that egypt is an important interlocutor and a key country for stability in the mediterranean area, given its geopolitical position and the presence of a long border in the desert, which makes any control of flows, people and goods difficult; that the relationship between egypt and the european union must promote respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms, because the stability of a country goes hand in hand with the protection of individual freedoms, respect for the value of life and the rule of law; the european union is also concerned that the wave of repression, the tense climate and the international criticism could threaten the very stability of egypt and thus of the entire north african region and could involve europe, with disastrous consequences.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make my colleagues aware of the importance of having a debate on the dynamics of a sector which is currently experiencing a very special moment, a sector, among other things, which is engaged in various investments to improve the sustainability of production processes.
as also enshrined in the convention, the european union must do more to promote the family as the fundamental unit of society and the natural environment for the growth of children.
the family, as the fundamental unit of society and the natural environment for the development and well-being of all its members, and in particular of children, must be afforded the protection and support necessary to enable it to fulfil its full responsibilities in society.
for a child to develop fully and harmoniously, he must be brought up in a family environment, in an atmosphere of happiness, love, and understanding.
our society has a duty to care for children, to provide them with a safe environment in which to grow and develop.
in addition, the european partnership on clean steel and low carbon steel making has been proposed under horizon europe.
finally, the innovation fund under the emissions trading system (ets) post-2020 will support big demonstration projects employing breakthrough low carbon technologies and it will cover up to 60% of the relevant cost of the projects.
in conclusion, let me underline that in our renewed industrial policy strategy, we stressed that a robust industrial base is essential for europe’s economic growth, preservation of sustainable jobs and eu competitiveness in the global market.
i believe that it is worth considering not only european research funds but also funds for industrial transition, to enable companies to make their environmental investments, even at a time of great difficulty in the steel sector, and to this end to revise the state aid rules.
mr. ambassador, i would like to ask you if you see a link between the restrictive climate policy of the european union and the collapse in the steel industry?
we have a duty to create a cultural climate in which the absolute freedom to inform and to be informed is universally regarded as a right of first importance.
a cultural climate in which those who distribute fake news are punished, in which those editors who have interests that condition their journalists by limiting their freedom are promoted, and in which, therefore, any kind of psychological, economic and physical violence against free journalism is condemned today and made impossible tomorrow.
climate change is threatening our future.
let europe take bold and unprecedented concrete measures to protect the environment.
(the order of business is as follows)
the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statement on climate and environmental emergency (2019/2930(rsp)), – oral questions to the council on the 2019 un climate change conference in madrid, spain (cop25), tabled by pascal canfin, peter liese, mohammed chahim, nils torvalds, pär holmgren, jadwiga wiśniewska, mick wallace, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000029/2019 – b9-0055/2019), and– oral questions to the commission on the 2019 un climate change conference in madrid, spain (cop25), tabled by pascal canfin, peter liese, mohammed chahim, nils torvalds, pär holmgren, jadwiga wiśniewska, mick wallace, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000030/2019 – b9-0056/2019).
– madam president, ‘clearly, planet earth is facing a climate emergency’.
the climate crisis is accelerating faster and more severely than anticipated.
the statement i quoted is in line with the recent special reports of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), according to which human-induced warming has already raised 1° celsius above pre-industrial levels and is increasing at approximately 0.2° celsius per decade.
by the end of the century, based on the current climate policies implemented worldwide, temperature is projected to rise by 3.1° to 3.7°.
moreover, there is growing awareness and concern about global warming and its effects.
we have heard their appeal to implement the paradigm shift to climate-proof the circular economy, that our economies and societies urgently need in order to mitigate the most catastrophic consequences of climate change.
the climate action summit in september demonstrated the political will to step up collective ambition.
it resulted in a number of major announcements by governments and private-sector leaders, including at eu level, on the reduction of greenhouse gas production, climate finance and carbon neutrality.
madam president, honourable members, as regards the paris agreement, the eu is preparing its long-term strategy for greenhouse gas emissions reductions that will be submitted to the un framework convention on climate change by 2020. most member states agree with the objective of climate neutrality in the eu by 2050, and several of them have already set national targets contributing to that goal.
the european council is committed to finalising its guidance on the eu’s climate-neutral vision before the end of this year, with a view to reaching an agreement between all member states.
the road to climate neutrality in the eu will affect everyone and will require efforts from all sectors of the economy.
it is equally essential to scale up their investment in research and development, if the eu wants reap the opportunities in terms of growth and employment that climate neutrality will trigger.
the climate and energy legislative framework is designed to enable us to reach the 2030 target.
that involves a reduction of domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% below 1990 levels.
actually, thanks to parliament’s, the council’s and the commission’s good cooperation, we were able to increase the ambition level up to -45% while finalising climate 2030 files.
the eu has successfully decoupled economic growth from emissions.
total greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 22%.
a recent report by the european environment agency indicates that the eu’s total emissions decreased by 2% in the last year.
the eu’s core position in this respect is to agree on rules on internationally transferred mitigation outcomes that encourage ambition and progression in ndcs, guarantee environmental integrity, avoid double counting and provide for the closure of the kyoto protocol mechanisms.
finally, the fight against global warming needs adequate financial means and resources which are key for increasing global ambition and for facilitating the transition to climate-smart economies.
the eu is the world’s biggest climate finance contributor.
the council has recently adopted conclusions on climate finance.
– madam president, thank you for the opportunity to participate in this timely and topical debate on the pressing issue of climate and environmental emergency, while we look ahead to preparations for the upcoming 25th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, in madrid, led by the government of chile.
climate change and the environment are a top priority for our citizens, and in particular for our young people.
climate change and the biodiversity losses are already affecting critical life systems on earth, threatening the livelihood of many.
together with you, we have put in place a comprehensive climate and energy framework and have delivered on our objectives in the circular economy action plan.
the european union is strongly committed to continuing an ambitious and urgent action to effectively address the interdependent environmental and climate crisis in an integrated manner – globally.
this is essential for sustainable development, poverty eradication and delivering on all of the sustainable development goals.
on the environment side, we need to engage all partners in bringing about the ‘transformative change’ that is necessary for our planet’s survival.
we must make 2020 a landmark year for climate, nature and ecosystems, including through an ambitious post-2020 global biodiversity framework to be adopted at the conference of the parties under the convention for biological diversity in kunming, china.
on climate, we must continue our efforts and accelerate our action in the european union and globally.
compromises that put environmental integrity at risk are not acceptable to us.
the decisions that we take at cop25 must prevent the double counting of emission reductions, and to achieve this the rules must account comprehensively for all uses of international carbon markets.
the decisions we take in madrid should also create strong incentives to reduce emissions now and in the future, and this means avoiding the use of past emission reductions to undermine current and future ambition.
european union leaders have committed to finalising their guidance on the objective of climate neutrality by the end of the year, in good time for the long-term strategy to be submitted to the unfccc in early 2020. the objective remains to create a modern, competitive, prosperous and climate-neutral society by 2050. at the same time, the demands of our citizens have spurred the european institutions to look again at what we need to do already in the 2030 perspective.
the next european commission has already announced that it will work in earnest to raise the european union ambition higher than 40% or 45% greenhouse gas emission reductions by 2030. for the european union this is a continuous process that can only stop when the objectives of the paris agreement are fully reached.
the european union and its member states remain the largest contributor of public climate finance to developing countries, including to the multilateral climate funds, and have contributed eur 21.7 billion in climate finance for 2018, which is double the level of 2013. yet we all know that public finance alone will be insufficient to achieve the goals of the paris agreement.
to this end, following its action plan on financing sustainable growth, the commission launched in october the international platform for sustainable finance in order to deepen international cooperation and, where appropriate, coordination on sustainability approaches and initiatives for the capital markets.
at the same time, we will continue to mainstream climate policies in all our international relations and in our development cooperation.
we will continue to persuade others to follow the path of climate neutrality as soon as possible in the second half of this century, as science incites all of us to do, and we will offer all our partners dialogue, cooperation and support in doing so.
together, we have achieved historic milestones, from the adoption and ratification of the paris agreement, through to the conclusion of a comprehensive legal framework on climate and energy in the form of the 2030 legislation and the clean energy package.
mr president, minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are just days after the climate catastrophe in venice, just weeks after donald trump confirmed the us withdrawal from the paris agreement, and we are now just hours away from the election, to be held in two days' time, of the new european commission, which has made the green deal action to combat climate change and biodiversity one of its priorities.
we are also just days away from cop 25. so there is no better time to have this debate and declare a climate and environmental emergency in europe.
we are in strasbourg on monday evening and on thursday we will have to vote on the climate and environmental emergency.
i would like to say today to the european citizens who are following our debates that at the moment we are speaking, we are not sure that this parliament will vote on thursday on the climate and environmental emergency.
we are 20 years old today; in 2050, we'll be living, we'll be 50 years old, and you want to leave us a world with three, four or five degrees of global warming?
if we do not want this and if we want to send this message to our children, to all our children, including my own, we will have to vote in three days' time on a climate and environmental emergency.
it would be, once again, a tremendous opportunity if the european parliament were the first continental parliament to say: 'europe is the first continent in the world to declare an environmental and climate emergency'.
we care about them, we care about the climate issue for our citizens and for all the citizens of the world, because - it was recalled today - the main donor of official development assistance is the european union, and we can be proud of that.
we must vote as other national colleagues have done on the climate and environmental emergency.
one of the big messages we have to send in this resolution - and i am sure we will - is to reduce our own co2 emissions well beyond the current targets that were mentioned by commissioner cañete and which are far below what the science is asking us to do.
so what we need to do is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 by 55 percent compared to 1990. it's what science asks us to do, it's not what emotion dictates, it's not what irrationality would ask or demand of us, it's what scientists ask us to do, and i think that as political leaders of the left, the right or the center, we need to listen to this scientific message and listen to the message of young people, and so support, in the resolution for cop 25, this demand to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 percent.
and thank god, many of those who fought him in the beginning also recognized that he was a climate activist in europe and around the world.
we must act urgently to prevent climate change from reaching extremely dangerous levels.
we are in danger of reaching tipping points where climate change will feed itself and our children and grandchildren will no longer be able to stop climate change, no matter how much we try.
ladies and gentlemen, before today's debate, new figures have just been presented which show that the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere was at an all-time high last year.
we have a climate emergency in europe and the rest of the world, and as elected representatives, we have a responsibility to understand this gravity and act accordingly.
as a parliament we have a hugely important role to play in the run-up to the madrid climate summit and i must say that it is a and o that everything is going in the same direction in the world.
we cannot allow controls that are actually counter to the efforts that are needed to bring down global warming.
– madam president, thank you yet again for this important debate on climate.
if we are going to call the climate emergency this thursday, as the european parliament, we then have to follow up.
we can declare climate emergencies, but the people on the streets are not asking us for declarations, they are asking us for actions.
we can’t even say that the 2050 climate neutrality target will be embraced by the eu, for example, because in the czech republic, a renew prime minister is not signing up to that.
to the commission – i know it will not be you, it will be the new commission – it’s about time that this climate law talks about urgent actions and not just 2050 again.
my forewords call for honesty, so let's be honest about the fact that we need a just climate change that doesn't exclude anyone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a new record for greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 is being set today by the wmo.
we have to look at the transport sector, which has increased its emissions since 1990 and, even more paradoxically, there are no binding targets for reducing emissions in aviation and shipping.
according to the imo, however, maritime emissions could even increase by up to 250% by 2050. this is simply unacceptable!
the creation of an eca area in the mediterranean, in addition to reducing so2, co2, no2 and consequently particulate matter and ozone, would prevent 10 000 premature deaths by 2050. the costs would be more than offset by the benefits of such action.
i would like to ask you, sir, if you are so adamant about saying no to fossil fuels, if you also want to reject gas energy and nuclear energy, what do you want to replace it with?
the most important issue is social justice and energy exclusion.
in the european union, nearly 50 million people suffer from energy poverty.
have you noticed the yellow vest protests in france, the growing problem of energy poverty?
we see the need for energy increasing year by year, and yet renewables are not meeting the increased need, and it is still fossil energy that meets the majority of our energy needs.
73% of all energy in the european union is still fossil.
i'm glad you're all wearing clothes in here today, but that also means you're contributing 12 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions.
we have not been able to put in place a recycling system to reduce the food waste that is causing some 30 to 35 per cent of all the food produced on our farms in the eu to be thrown into landfills.
we all agree that we need to do something about climate change, but how?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i find the debate on the climate emergency to be frankly tiresome and almost useless.
the president of the commission now looks like an environmental fundamentalist.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at the next european council on 12 and 13 december, the issue of climate change will be discussed with a view to finalizing a strategy for climate neutrality in 2050. to achieve this, the european union is asking european industry, for example steelworks, to implement a programme to phase out coal, involving major investment in new production technologies.
i wonder, therefore, whether the european council intends to support european industry by means of appropriate financial instruments to ensure the competitiveness of our industry, especially in relation to china, india and the united states, countries which do not share europe's fight against climate change, even by means of the energy transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again parliament and the council have reached an agreement which, in my view, should invest more in two key areas of this european union, namely the fight against climate change and support for youth employment.
what has happened in italy in recent days, with the collapse of a viaduct - yet another unfortunate incident - shows us that the fight against climate change is more our business than we think, and above all that we must invest in prevention, for a strong and shared policy that europe must promote.
at the time when the fight for these funds was being waged, some were absent, such as the left, which did not come to the field to fight, to increase funds for the youth, for climate change, for farmers, for the countryside, for technology, for the digital economy, but it has the right to criticize, it has the right to vote against these funds that were won through the struggle of dear colleagues at the time of the trade-off.
we need new own resources to finance the goals we want to achieve, and both are connected to climate change and to the internal market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, environmental disasters are continuing to affect every country in europe, from north to south.
the latest report from the un environment agency says that temperatures have risen 3.2 degrees from pre-industrial levels, with a high risk of destructive weather events.
global greenhouse gases continue to rise, despite efforts to limit them.
the european states must become an example of how development and environmental protection can go hand in hand.
europe can and must become a reference point and a successful model for the newly industrialized states which continue to increase their emissions of polluting gases.
but i also recall that in 2018 alone, almost 18 million people around the world were forced to leave their homes, precisely because of climate phenomena.
however, according to a report by the european environment agency, croatia is one of the three european countries with the highest cumulative share of damage from extreme weather and climate events in relation to gross national product.
it is high time we declared a climate crisis and implemented urgent measures to reverse global warming trends.
let's not let it be destroyed by climate change that we ourselves have caused.
but the discussion is being conducted here again in a remarkably hypocritical way, because again it is climate change that is to blame, that is soon to blame for everything.
but it's not just climate change that's causing the problem there, it's also man, who, by widening the canals for years to allow even bigger ships to come into the city, is making sure that, of course, now more water can enter this city.
extremely high temperatures lead to significant deterioration of the indoor environment of buildings, overheating, increase of air conditioning systems, especially in urban agglomerations.
in an urban environment, the emergence of a so-called urban heat island should be prevented or reduced by promoting a lower surface albedo, for example by increasing the proportion of vegetation areas to soil, by using water elements and by reducing the outflow of water from the urban environment.
increase the protection of critical infrastructure, adapt buildings to climate change, enhance environmental stability, ensure the flexibility and reliability of the transport sector and foster the development of an integrated rescue system.
it’s also the landscape itself and the urban environment.
we must therefore do our utmost to protect cultural heritage from the effects of extreme meteorological events, which is an increasing threat due to climate change.
europe has done so far, it has not turned the other way, because with the solidarity fund italy has obtained two and a half billion since 2002. we now ask for a further step, as article 11 of the treaty on european union says: the commission has already proposed that environmental protection be integrated into all the european structural funds, in particular the regional development fund and the rural development fund.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of recent climate change, which is causing more and more frequent extreme weather events in our territories and also frequent earthquakes, and in view of the fact that many european countries have urban centres of great historical and artistic interest for the whole union, some of which are geographically more exposed to the risks of serious damage caused by bad weather and earthquakes - as is the case for venice, matera and also the city of l'aquila in italy - i believe that the logic of the european commission's proposal for a no longer just an emergency approach to the protection of europe's historical and cultural heritage is correct.
in practical terms, i think that we must take action ex ante to make these sites safe, first by carrying out a census of them, as indicated by each member state, and by creating a ranking of the most important and at-risk sites, and then by having appropriate studies on the measures needed to prevent environmental and seismic damage, quantifying the costs and the time needed to implement them.
on this basis, a strategic plan for safeguarding, on a european initiative, should be drawn up and financed with the funds we already have for cohesion, the environment and infrastructure.
one thing that has to be done is that we need concrete support measures – real measures to help farmers here, and not measures like those that were put in place in ireland in response to brexit or provisionally signing up to mercosur, which paid the most sustainable beef farmers on the planet to go out of business: we don’t want that type of support.
i think, as we move towards the climate issue – because there’s been a lot of climate shaming – we have to be mindful of our words, because rural europe is in difficulty and this issue must be addressed.
the weather: vice-president timmermans would like to see europe as a climate champion, but if third countries do not do their part, if they do not accept commitments, we will only have burdens for our citizens and our businesses.
sustainable growth and poverty reduction, rule of law and democracy, economic and cultural development, management of migration flows and climate change: these are the key issues to be re-launched in the context of enhanced joint cooperation beyond 2020. the cotonou agreement has enabled us to embark on the path of dialogue and cooperation, and in these years the results achieved have been important, but let us be frank, they are not significant.
the same thing with plastic: you keep talking about plastic free and then you make trade deals with countries where pollution is on the agenda.
i doubt we can go to the missing beneficiaries and tell them that their businesses will close but they will enjoy lower carbon emissions.
during the last plenary we declared a climate and environment emergency.
i hope that all these legislative proposals will be based on an impact assessment of both climate change and the effect on jobs and economic competitiveness.
our investment in new greener technologies, such as battery production and green hydrogen, needs to be more ambitious and we need massive investment in modern infrastructure for green energy and transport, be it in big cities or in small villages.
we can restore the rich biodiversity beneath our waves and help rebuild the stocks that will give a secure future to our fishing industry.
by putting sustainability first, we will be well placed to lead negotiations globally in promoting good governance of the world’s oceans.
vice-president, we face many environmental battles; this is one we can win.
you can count on my full commitment to work with you in the next five years to ensure a fair tax environment in europe.
we would, however, like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the house to the hope that the new board of the european central bank, in its full statutory independence, will reconsider the policy of negative rates, because their persistence over time is creating a paradoxical situation in which, on the one hand, the enormous liquidity imposed in the face of the extraordinary monetary stimulus undertaken in recent years has failed to reach, if only marginally, the real economy, that is, households and businesses in the euro area, and, on the other hand, has also created enormous sustainability problems in individual and collective investment assets, such as pension funds.
finally, we trust that the board of the european central bank itself will carefully assess whether the current forecast of esma's preparatory powers, extended to the sustainability of a member country's debt, according to the single criterion in annex 3, does not automatically determine negative market expectations on the placement of government securities, as the effects would be unpredictable and therefore very risky due to the total, opaque and arbitrary choice in the application of the quantitative method.
and we also need to review, as the european central bank is going to do in the coming months, the whole of monetary policy to adapt it to new phenomena as they are - and that's very important to this group as well - its effects on climate change, knowing that the bank's asset purchase programs have been buying coal-related assets for many, many months and that has to end, among many other things.
he arrives in frankfurt at a delicate time, marked by severe tensions in the board of directors and by several open challenges on the table of the new leadership of the bank: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the public, from climate change to cryptocurrencies, from the problem of money laundering supervision to the deadlock in the banking union, but we are confident that this is a worthy choice and that it will certainly live up to the principles it has always shown to believe in throughout its excellent career.
we have a lot to say about a sustainable investment campaign for europe.
fiscal policy, whilst bearing in mind debt sustainability, especially in highly-indebted member states, can provide a boost to domestic demand and raise inflation expectations.
disability in europe affects some 80 million people, who often lack the opportunity to participate fully in social and economic life because of behavioural and environmental barriers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the un climate change conference has been a total failure.
the delegates, about 200, were there for two weeks, before that the officials, the staff, all of them, of course, went to madrid, with peace of mind about the pollution that you are so full of, probably it was not important there, the environmentalists there did not care.
the european union has made a miserable impression, and let me say that it should also stop taking on responsibilities that are not its own because taking on the full burden of climate change seems a bit crazy to me.
the 2015 paris agreement set climate targets for developed countries saying they have to take the first step.
but i wonder, china and india, which are the economic giants of the world, which are leading the rankings for co2 emissions and pollution, but in the european union they are still considered developing countries, with the consequence that they are free to pollute until 2030 and are even free to share a hundred billion dollars from europe, america and even other developed countries for new climate policies.
i would like a slightly more realistic approach from the european union and also to have less invasive climate policies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what was to be the most ambitious un climate change conference ever has ended in a resounding failure.
no compromise was found on article 6 of the paris agreement, which provides for global regulation of the carbon market, and the major polluting countries such as india, china and the united states reiterated their no to reducing greenhouse gases.
a well-deserved slap in the face to europe and its slogans on climate change, which not only do not bring anything, but also harm european companies, which are forced to compete with the big polluting countries, which have absolutely no intention of undertaking the energy transition europe wants.
ladies and gentlemen, the failure of the un conference on climate change will not be the only one, but many others will follow.
madrid did not achieve what was needed to combat climate change or even to contain it sufficiently.
we must act quickly, because we cannot wait for the deterioration of the environment.
the positive is that we know the challenge, we have the technology, we have the resources, we have the money to live a sustainable lifestyle.
now, more responsibility falls on companies, circular economy tools and sustainable finance.
the green deal is an important initiative that is expected to make the eu a leader in the fight against climate change, both internally and globally.
the most significant proposals i see are the climate bill, the update of existing climate legislation, carbon taxes, the next phase of the circular economy and sustainable food and buildings.
the much-overlooked loss of biodiversity was also highlighted as part of the green deal.
this will mean much higher ambition in eu climate policy.
we must redouble our efforts if we are to meet the challenge of climate change.
– madam president, pollinators are fundamental for the conservation of biodiversity and for life on earth.
the functioning of our ecosystem and human well-being are at risk.
climate change and temperature changes also have disruptive effects on pollination.
the conference of the parties to the un convention on biological diversity agreed on a plan of action for 2018 to 2030 for the conservation and sustainable use of pollinators.
last month the coalition proposed to have a specific target, an indicator for pollinators and pollination, in the post-2020 global biodiversity framework.
measures have also been taken to promote pollinator-friendly solutions in agriculture and to support biodiversity in the reformed common agricultural policy for the years 2014 to 2020. all these developments are positive.
the intergovernmental science—policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services ‘global assessment report on biodiversity and ecosystem services’ released in may this year provides a grim picture.
the global decline of biodiversity at unprecedented rates in human history is, to a large extent, caused by the loss of pollinators which are the very basis of habitats and ecosystems.
the council therefore calls for rapid and effective implementation of the existing measures by the eu and the member states to address the loss of biodiversity.
we also look forward to the publication of the commission’s biodiversity strategy for 2030 with ambitious targets for biodiversity, which we will examine with great interest as soon as it’s available.
the already existing and future european union actions on research, climate change and pollution will also be critical for the protection of pollinators.
as announced in the european green deal, and while we are still waiting for the adoption of the new cap, the commission will work with member states to ensure that strategic plans are assessed according to robust and environmental criteria and lead to more sustainable practices.
the initiative aims to reduce the impact of pesticides on pollinators by: strengthening the risk assessment; banning all outdoor uses of the three neonicotinoids restricted in 2013; and supporting member states to ensure the sustainable use of pesticides, in particular through integrated pest management.
in the european green deal, the commission announced an increased level of ambition to tackle the causes of biodiversity loss, including by reducing significantly the use and the risk of chemical pesticides, as well as the use of fertilisers, and restoring damaged ecosystems.
and finally, the biodiversity strategy for 2030 and the farm to fork strategy to be delivered in the spring of 2020 will provide strong frameworks for the european union pollinators’ initiative and help us to reach our goal of stopping the loss of pollinators.
and i think there are many children today who just wouldn’t know that that ever happened and would not be aware of the biodiversity that existed.
this is a new element and a very important one, and maybe you will be surprised when i throw in competition law with biodiversity, but there is a link here and we need to understand how competition law is impacting in a negative way on biodiversity, and i ask you to do that.
because that's why it's important to identify the causes of pollinator destruction, whether it's climate change, disease, the spread of pests, the chemicals used by large-scale agriculture, or the expansion and lifestyle of large cities, and to work together to find solutions.
the same now for invasive species: environmental pollution, global warming, clear goals and obligations.
mr president, bees, butterflies and other pollinators are essential vectors of biodiversity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am a strong believer in the defence of pollinators, as i believe they are the most powerful tool we have to safeguard the biodiversity of our country and of our europe.
madam president, the third point of the european green deal is to make our union a world leader in the ecological transition.
we'll have a senior trade policy official focused on sustainability.
this is a complete waste of resources, especially in the case of resource-intensive products such as beef.
madam president, the green deal presented by the commission is very ambitious, as it sets a target of carbon neutrality by 2050. the european union is thus declaring its commitment to be an example in the implementation of the paris climate agreements.
by concluding free trade agreements with the whole world, the union is betraying the environmental objectives it has set itself.
the best way to combat air pollution is to promote short-haul transport to limit the movement of goods over long distances, which requires the massive use of kerosene and heavy fuel oil.
with over 770 million consumers and €18 trillion of gdp, it is indeed the largest, and this is all the more serious for the environment as latin america is a continent far away from europe.
secondly, the content of free trade agreements always sacrifices environmental protection in the name of an almost obsessive desire to export our industrial production at any cost.
it is true that there is a chapter in it which claims to ensure the conservation of forests and sustainable development.
in conclusion, true to its ultra-liberal dna, the european union is deliberately sacrificing environmental protection to the business and short-term interests of the automotive, chemical, pharmaceutical, telecommunications, transport and financial services lobbies.
the second face is the one who fills his mouth with evocative phrases like the green new deal, but then doesn't care about environmental protection, because the only green he cares about is the color of money.
the russian parliament is continuing to create a hostile environment for journalists with excessive use of fines against the media and civil society.