it was fortunate that the preparation of the parliament's report on the nuclear financing of ignalina was entrusted to her, as she is one of the strongest meps on the european union and nuclear energy.
the state must ensure the well-being of its population and create an enabling environment for economic growth.
in all countries, foreign investment in sectors such as energy, communications, transport - i mean sea and airports, railways and media - must be scrutinised.
i always try to emphasise the essential function of the state to provide a healthy environment for the development and prosperity of its people.
the country should create an environment conducive to the prosperity of families.
ipa iii is the instrument which supports applicant countries in the western balkans and turkey in implementing reforms, fighting corruption, fostering economic development and the functioning of a market economy, as well as improving the investment climate.
it destroys the environment, kills culture, and leaves behind impoverished nations and areas of deprivation.
– mr president, the decision this house will take later today will put europe’s plastics economy on a sustainable path and put europe at the forefront of global action.
it is also a concrete demonstration of the eu’s broader commitment to the un sustainable development goals.
never before has a natural environment that sustains humankind been under such strain.
never before has it been so important to put sustainable development at the very heart of everything we do in europe and globally.
the new directive on single-use plastics will help change the way we design, consume and manage plastic products and waste.
it will significantly reduce the negative impact of plastic pollution on the environment, in particular the marine environment.
the prospect of this new legislation has already boosted more sustainable business solutions, changed consumer behaviour and become a leading example in the world, even before its entry into force.
the measures will also significantly reduce littering and plastic pollution in our marine waters.
the agreed measures should improve the design of products, raise consumer awareness by labelling, and also reduce consumption by banning certain products for which more sustainable alternatives are available.
the european parliament also pushed for very strong measures to ensure that the bill for proper waste management and clean—up of litter is picked up by the producers, who have the greatest influence on improving collection of on—the—go consumption waste.
clearly, we should all be very proud of these new rules because they tackle pollution from single—use plastics and fishing gear in such a comprehensive manner.
once implemented, it will not only prevent plastic pollution, but also make the european union the world leader when it comes to the most sustainable plastic policy.
statements by the commission(in writing) proposal of directive on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment com(2018) 340 final; 2018/0172 (cod) commission statements in the context of the inter-institutional negotiations the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation 182/2011 to invoke article 5 § 4, second subparagraph, point b) in a systematic manner.
as the rapporteur responsible for the committee on agriculture and rural development, i am pleased that my proposals have been generally supported by both the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment, and i regret that my proposal for member states to set specific targets and objectives for the reduction of plastics has not been supported.
instead, it was left with the captions and the uncomplicated phrases ambitious, sustainable, meaningful.
while this directive will not stop the most controversial energy project in europe, it will certainly address its negative consequences for the internal market, energy and geopolitical security of the european union.
it is also essential to create a family-friendly environment at the workplace and for employers to guarantee flexible working relationships for families with children in order to strengthen social protection and pension rights.
i simply want to ask you, mr prime minister, to continue to support the creation of a real independent energy market in the european union in the european council.
i believe that without equal representation we will never be able to solve the problems that are plaguing the different regions of europe: the convergence of living standards, the legitimization of democracy, social justice and the fight against climate change.
for us, the eu is not only the common market, not only the source of our economic growth and our social welfare, not only our common united instrument to fight climate change.
i hope the work of the new commission will start on the critical assessment of previous efforts in such spheres as detecting environmental influences, other risk factors, screening and enabling more effective and earlier diagnosis.
but it's not enough to create new varieties for plant food production to manage climate change.
people who went out to demand their rights, to demand social guarantees, to demand constitutional amendments, to demand environmental things.
i would simply like to wish you not to lose your personal motivation, your energy and your leadership skills, even in the most difficult circumstances.
in madrid, it was noted that there was an urgent need for new commitments on climate change.
after all, science has proven beyond doubt what the factors of climate change are.
no system for allocating new funds to countries affected by climate change has been agreed.
that and the ambition to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by at least half by 2030 compared to 1990 levels.
this is how we consistently achieve climate neutrality by 2050. so europe has taken a clear lead and we must maintain it.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the paris agreement and the paris agreement on climate change, and will continue to support the implementation of the paris agreement and the paris agreement on climate change.
everything we do to prevent biodiversity loss must be based on science and ambitious, but realisable, goals.