madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for me the central element of investeu is to continue to turn our backs on austerity and to invest in innovative, sustainable projects which would not find investors without the support of the european union.
but one thing is certain: the patient must be at the centre of our concerns and must be able to enjoy an inclusive environment, where they are informed of their rights and how they can benefit from them.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr timmermans has presented a reflection paper on the european union's sustainable development objectives, in which he presents three scenarios.
we are continuing to analyse and consider strategies for the 2030 sustainable development goals, which were set by the united nations in 2015. but is it not time to act?
today we have the technical solutions to reduce our ecological footprint.
it is true that it must be further improved, and that a fair approach must be adopted at european level: it is not the disadvantaged social classes who have to pay the cost of the ecological transition; and just globally: we can't make others suffer for more clean air here.
now we need to set the right political priorities, we need to coordinate our climate action, we need to set an ambitious roadmap, with deadlines, with clearly defined targets in the fields of energy, industry, mobility, agriculture.
the ecological and solidarity transition cannot wait any longer.
so meeting our climate goals is possible, and so can we.
we need not only an energy revolution, we also need an agricultural revolution.
we need to move away from mass animal husbandry, away from mass production, towards sustainable agriculture, where animal welfare is not just a nice thing to have, but a commitment.
health or environmental damage is caused by unscrupulous companies; in that case, don't the victims deserve access to class action?
a mandatory reduction quota for plastic waste, as i have called for - including packaging - has unfortunately not been implemented.
and that is why this package of measures can and must be only a first step in the right direction against plastic waste.
that is why the drinking water directive is also closely linked to the vote on the reduction of plastic waste which we have held here today.
this is not only good for the environment, but also protects the backs and wallets of eu citizens.
the right way forward is to ensure clear targets to combat climate change, to increase spending on advisory platforms, which will allow - at least i hope - better information and geographical distribution, to introduce the idea of climate resilience for all projects, to evaluate projects with indicators relating to the climate targets achieved.
regrettably, it is still possible, through investeu, to invest in defence-related projects as well as in projects that are not really linked to the climate objectives to be achieved, such as airports or fossil energy networks.
both parties agree that the future development cooperation framework should be based on the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement on climate change and must reflect and adapt to the changing global context, new challenges and opportunities.
lastly, honourable members, your question on the sustainable development goals (sdg) is welcome.
without the cooperation of the african, caribbean and pacific countries and the union, it is impossible to tackle challenges such as migration, climate change, access to education, access and security.
but also a consensus for a flexible approach to be adopted, which would allow a shared framework for sustainable development to be reconciled within the acp-eu relationship, but also with subregional economic and trade partnerships, and in particular with the eu-african union partnership.
but if we become clear about how crucial it is to tackling certification, climate change, forced migration, the conflicts generated by the exploitation of endemic poverty and the fragility of institutions, we will be able to show that a good design, a good implementation of the agreement, is good for the people of africa, the caribbean and the pacific, the european union and for humanity in general.
this negotiation incorporated into its initial text the need to address challenges such as the climate crisis.
understandably, the green deal places a lot of emphasis on climate policy and how we move towards a carbon-neutral europe.
but it is important to remember that the pursuit of sustainable development implies economic, social and environmental sustainability.
and when we are pursuing all three, including an economically and socially sustainable europe and a sustainable world, trade policy has a very important role to play.
it is not enough for the european union to achieve carbon neutrality alone, we need the rest of the world to join us.
our own share of global emissions is only 10 percent.
we have not made as much progress as we would have liked at the madrid meeting, and it is now important that the united states, china and india in particular are committed to international climate action in the coming year.
it is important that all new eu trade agreements, including the mercosur agreement, include sustainable development figures, which are monitored by a separate committee.
the effective implementation and monitoring of these sustainable development indicators is of paramount importance.
but these agreements also represent spaces for dialogue and understanding with the world, important in promoting values and practices of sustainable development, human and labour rights, environmental rights, animal welfare rules, food health and safety, fair trade, thus bringing countries and latitudes closer to objectives that must be absolutely global.
that is why the political commitments included in the mercosur agreement, namely the mutual commitment to implement the paris agreement or to comply with environmental agreements such as the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, are very important signals, but they cannot be seen as mere rhetorical exercises.
at a time when europe promises to innovate with an ecological barrier, preventing imports from countries which do not respect our environmental standards, how can we imagine that some, in the most complete opacity and in our name, can allow south american countries to flood the european market with food products containing substances prohibited to our own farmers?
to this ecological absurdity would be added a large-scale social plan, which the european parliament must refuse to be complicit in.
the eu—mercosur agreement includes a binding commitment for the parties to effectively implement the paris agreement, but this commitment is made in the sustainable development chapter and, as such, is not subject to trade sanctions.
so i propose the solution that parliament should now demand that, as a condition for ratifying the trade deal, the paris climate pledge should be made an essential element of the mercosur agreement.
i’m the one looking for a solution to make this agreement a progressive tool to fight climate change.
first of all, it's important that the countries of mercosur and of course the european union signed the paris climate agreement, and that brazil is the key country to solve our deforestation problem.
secondly, the agreement between the european union and mercosur also included a chapter on trade and sustainable development in the strengthening of investment and trade relations and said in this chapter that the environment will be fully respected and issues such as sustainable management and forest protection will be addressed.
the european union emits almost three times as many greenhouse gases as mercosur, but we are global leaders in the fight against climate change.
the green deal and the commitment to become the first climate neutral region by 2050 is good evidence of this, but it is certainly not enough.
the eu-mercosur agreement is therefore of particular importance, with an ambitious, legally binding sustainable development chapter and an effective commitment to implement the paris agreement on climate change and to roll back and drop trade preferences if not complied with.
it should be recalled that, thanks to the agreement, brazil is committed to halting illegal deforestation and to reducing its net greenhouse gas emissions by 43% by 2030 compared to 2005 levels, being the only major developing country to undertake this.
but it is first and foremost a very challenging agreement, and the main reason why this agreement is very challenging is that it is an environmental certification for products entering the european union.
it is necessary today, commissioner hogan, to assure our citizens, to assure the farmers of the european union, the farmers of greece, that the products coming into the european union from the mercosur countries will carry environmental certification.
this means that mercosur can be undermined in practice, that brazil can finally withdraw from the paris climate agreement, be the cause of its shipwreck ... (the president interrupts)
president, with a donald trump crippling the wto, with a xi jinping watching and with a boris johnson seemingly bent on a hard brexit, europe must lead.
this brings with it a great responsibility, but also an opportunity to make global trade sustainable.
because compliance is important, not just compliance by trump, xi and johnson, but also by bolsonaro, because a climate sceptic who is getting in the way in madrid and who is deforesting the amazon at a rapid pace is not a good trading partner for the eu.
it is clear, mr president, that we must examine both past and future trade agreements, especially the mercosur free trade agreement now on the table, in the light of the objectives of sustainable development and the crises.
sustainable development is not achieved through a purely trade agreement framework.
madam president, the treaty with the mercosur countries contains conditions for these countries to be forced to adopt environmental and social standards.
i think it's a good tool to push the main objective of the european green deal, which is to reduce carbon dioxide and emissions.
madam president, the mercosur agreement is more than just an economic agreement, it is also a set of values, it is sustainable development, it is a social commitment, it is sustainability, it is a requirement, it is reciprocity, and it is compatible with the european green deal.
a mercosur agreement which devotes a chapter to sustainable development, the conservation of forests, respect for fundamental rights, and the promotion of corporate social responsibility.
finally, an agreement which also includes reference to the precautionary principle, one of the most innovative mechanisms for combating climate change.
it is also worth noting that this mercosur agreement will become internal law in the countries of the south american bloc when it is ratified, and that is why we believe that we cannot miss this opportunity and that this proposal is absolutely compatible and desirable to work hand in hand with the ecological pact, with the 'new green deal'.
and today we do not have any deal whatsoever with the mercosur countries in order to find a way in which those four countries could embrace a much more progressive opportunity for environment and climate action.
but we did, at the end of the day, find a basis where we could have a very balanced outcome in relation to sustainability.
president bolsonaro campaigned in his election to say that he did not want to become part of the paris climate agreement.
but what this agreement – i want to outline to the people that say there’s no progress made in relation to any issues of sustainability – this agreement includes a binding commitment to the implementation of the paris agreement, of which all mercosur countries are signatories.
and brazil’s nationally-determined contributions under this paris agreement include the following pledges, to be achieved by 2030: zero illegal deforestation in the brazilian amazon and compensation for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from legal deforestation.
and fourthly, enhancing sustainable management of natural forests with a view to curbing illegal and unsustainable practices.
the association agreement will also provide a solid framework for where we can actually include provisions regarding the promotion of the role of indigenous communities in sustainable supply chains of forestry products or cooperation to promote sustainable social products involving these communities.
furthermore, the eu and mercosur have negotiated a firm agreement to labour standards in the agreement, in order to ensure that trade relationships are not developed at the expense of social or labour rights, but instead, fostering mutual support of this between economic growth, social development and environmental protection.
i know my good friend mr wallace has a slight interest in social and environmental matters, and i welcome his new-found interest in these matters.
but i’m glad that i was able to explain to my good friend mr wallace what huge advances are being made now in environment and social protections, which i know are a massive concern to you and which you will be able to tell your constituents now of the enormous progress that has been made.
finally, we need some leverage in order to ensure that all of the economic, environmental and social dimensions of our free trade agreements and that our trade is able to be used as leverage.
we now have an opportunity to say to our friends in south america that our long-forgotten cousins and relatives from europe, who are now in south america, that we are prepared to work with you on economic, environmental and social matters.
and, dear friends, we all share the view that we need to do our utmost to tackle climate change and environmentally related challenges, which are becoming ever more urgent.
trade forms an important policy area where sustainability is an important element.
it serves as a platform to engage with trading partners on climate and on environmental action, and the trade agreement with mercosur needs to be seen in this light as an opportunity to promote change.
it is also of great political and geo-strategic significance that goes way beyond the eu-mercosur context, and importantly, it represents an opportunity for the eu to export its high social and environmental standards to the region.
the eu cannot reverse deforestation and the impacts of climate change on its own.
this holds true also for trade agreements and in particular as far as the sustainable development chapters are concerned.
finally, some people question the incompatibility of trade agreements with the fight for the environment.
in voting for this, there was little concern for the environment, let alone the impact on european employment.
so to bring from the end of the world what we already have at home, and at the same time say that we are fighting for the environment, is regrettable.