i welcome the amendments that speak about the technological, energy and environmental aspects of globalisation.
secondly, to promote sustainable development and good governance and ensure that the eu’s financial and economic interests are safeguarded.
although the .eu top-level domain (tld) functions well, it is also true that the online environment and market are evolving very quickly, and we should always think one step ahead.
the question remains as to whether enhanced rights for investors are compatible with human and environmental rights and visa transparency standards.
iran delivered on its commitments, as confirmed by 14 reports of the international atomic energy agency.
the purpose of this debate, to the contrary, is to create a negative environment in eu-iran relations and to undermine the efforts at engagement, led by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini.
the global challenges of climate change, energy security, digitalisation, non-proliferation and the fight against terrorism are a few of them.
this applies in full to nord stream 2, a project that reinforces eu dependency on russian gas supplies, threatens the eu internal market and is not in line with either european energy or foreign and security policy.
i am proud that with this legislature, we managed to guarantee support for concrete sectors, such as the creation of new jobs in small and medium enterprises, digital connectivity, natural heritage, zero emission urban mobility, sustainable tourism and others.
in my opinion, any set of rules on energy must be comprehensive and not designed in favour of, or against, any particular project.
these pipelines, leading from or to the eu, are a part of our energy security infrastructure, and they also represent the variable integration patterns that allows neighbouring countries and other energy partners to become part of our energy architecture.
dominant actors and small actors should play by the same rules, but we should respect the rights of european energy consumers and avoid making them the victims of anti-russian rhetoric.
in a digital environment, a single computer virus can wreak more havoc than a conventional military strike.