because in truth what we want is a sustainable mechanism that is based on our value of solidarity, not on a case-by-case basis.
but please, do not let people suffer any longer and provide us with a sustainable european solution to share the responsibility among all member states.
colleagues, i am one of those who strongly believes that today's intensive pesticide use around europe is no longer sustainable.
the unsustainable use of pesticides poses a challenge not only to our environment, but also to people's health, and it can have a serious impact on both the farmers who use such products and the general public who can come into contact with hazardous chemicals found in pesticides in public areas such as parks and also school-yards.
now the sustainable use of pesticides directive provides for a range of actions that can help europe achieve a sustainable use of pesticides.
and funnily enough, despite awareness around the sustainability of agriculture and despite the development of pesticides that can be used at low doses, on average, we are seeing the use of pesticides has not decreased at all in recent years.
europe's farmers have every right to be able to use substances and techniques that do not put their own health at risk and that do not impact negatively on the environment and their farmland.
we need incentives that can change things, incentives that can help farmers reduce the amount of pesticides they use and switch to more sustainable non-chemical options.
for the s&d group it is a priority that the european union and all its member states increase their efforts to help the sustainable use of pesticides.
now we need to make sure that member states deliver, so that farmers, consumers, citizens and the environment, can all benefit from the existing sustainable alternative methods.
a better implementation of the sustainable use of pesticides directive is key in ensuring that this change actually happens.
later on today, we as parliamentarians have the opportunity to send a clear and important signal to all the member states, that we stand together with all citizens across the european union and expect our countries to ramp up their actions and contribute concretely to a more sustainable use of pesticides around europe.
the main thing, as we all know, is that we need to strengthen our efforts in the sustainable use of pesticides and in the improvement of the directive.
i have outlined to you the comprehensive regulatory system for plant protection products in europe and the commission’s efforts to ensure their sustainable use.
it will also launch an evaluation of the sustainable use directive in 2020 to determine if this legislation is fit for purpose.
they must demonstrate their commitment to citizens to reduce the risk and impact of the use of pesticides on human health and the environment.
we will take careful note of the recommendations, and together we will continue on the road towards more sustainable agriculture in europe in order to protect our citizens’ health, the environment, consumers and sustainable agriculture.
but, i repeat, the unsustainable use of pesticides, as we have heard today, can lead to a loss of biodiversity, can contaminate and affect the soil, can contaminate and contaminate the water and can even enter our groundwater - our groundwater.
after all, pesticide and pesticide dependence is completely incompatible with sustainable agriculture.
and we believe that the european union must push for a more sustainable agriculture that promotes prevention, that promotes non-chemical methods, biological controls and even low-risk products.
the third point: data collection on pesticide use and also pesticide residues in the environment needs to be improved.
or we decide that europe is going to stop and that we are not able to have a real tax on energy, a real tax on fighting climate change, a real tax on digital technology, a real tax on financial transactions and that we are powerless in a context where others - china and the united states, to name but a few - are able to protect themselves, to be extremely aggressive in the tax field.
we will still have a lot to do together, a lot of battles to fight together, and i want to assure you that until the end of my mandate, until the end of the mandate of this commission, i will be at your disposal to advance this cause to which i have really, since i became european commissioner, devoted a great deal of my time, a great deal of my energy because i think it is, quite simply, very useful, useful to europe, useful to europeans.
madam president, we are on the eve of another march against climate change, including in my own home country, malta.
it has to also be about ecological economies and about sustainable development and this is the moment for an economic paradigm shift.
being sustainable in everything we do does not jam our economies, it will give our economies a chance to thrive and grow.
what will jam our economies is the traditional model of doing things where sustainable development is not a priority.
the sustainable development goals address precisely this.
it is about ensuring a climate—proof, environment—proof, social—proof and economic—proof future.
i fight corruption day and night but with the same energy i would like to fight proposals that have a negative effect on employment in a number of countries, including malta and gozo.
we negotiated hard, but we are here today because we do understand that the transition to a carbon—neutral economy can help address climate change, improve our health and environment, and can bring a new impulse to our countries’ industrial competitiveness.
the legislation aimed at reducing co2 emissions for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles is part of this whole transition.
it’s part of a bigger picture, one that requires a shift from traditional economic models to ones rooted in sustainability, where new technologies can flourish, where innovation takes centre stage and where further investments are channelled into research and development.
this fund is aimed to achieve a climate—neutral economy without negative social implications and, in particular, to support workers in the european car manufacturing industry, a key priority for myself and my political group, the s&d.
let me stress again that we now have another key element to implementing the 2030 european union climate and energy framework and meeting our commitments under the paris agreement.
the legislation is not only to protect our environment: this legislation will help european union industry to retain its leading competitive position in a fast-changing global market with a demand for clean products and business models that support sustainable mobility and is increasingly significant.
we all know about the scale of efforts needed to reach our long-term climate objectives and some contributions to the debate have pointed to that.
there is no time to lose in our fight against climate change, and this is what our citizens, including our young generation, expect from all of us.
we are in a situation where every minute, a truckload of plastic waste ends up in our seas.
madam president, we are the first generation of politicians to have started to understand the damage that single-use plastics are doing to the environment.
75% of the waste that goes into the seas and oceans is plastic.
we will also create a europe where children, in particular boys, will grow up in an environment where both parents share responsibilities with each other and this will help to change the culture around these kinds of responsibilities.
it proves that social europe and a sustainable europe is not a theoretic, imaginary objective but an evolving reality on the ground.
i have been talking about this for many years and insisting on european rules on the protection of whistleblowers and i am happy that protection will now be given when reports are made of breaches of european laws ranging from money laundering to environmental protection.
this is a small step, but another step towards creating the social europe we have been working for, especially in the last five years, and here i would like to thank commissioner marianne thyssen and president jean-claude juncker and together with the members of this house, especially the committee on social affairs, employment and the working environment, we have done our best to make europe more social than it is today.
i believe that this is the way forward if we honestly want to have a european union that develops a modern, competitive, innovative and truly sustainable economy.
hence the need for an environment that is more transparent and fairer.
the positive outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations on the commission’s proposal for the regulation on the transparency and sustainability of the eu risk assessment in the food chain is an important step.
in order to ensure trade transparency and efsa’s long term sustainability, member states will be represented on the efsa management board.
commission statements(in writing) "the commission welcomes the political agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the proposal for a regulation on the transparency and sustainability of the eu risk assessment in the food chain.
the new rules will protect health and environmental interests, along with consumer safety.
i know that this was not an easy file, and it is very positive that we have yet another policy in place to reduce co2 emissions, because for far too long we had no standards for heavy duty vehicles, fully aware that these trucks have a major impact on global warming and that their climate impact is expected to further increase if we remain with the ‘business as usual’ scenario.
parliament’s position set the right ambition, something that we strongly need in order to be in line with our climate commitments, and i believe that the future for cleaner vehicles, including trucks, will be driven by innovation.
adoption by the commission confirms that we remain committed to protecting eu citizens and the environment.
however, there is still a lack of concrete action to provide full protection for human health and the environment.
we need a european course of action, and it needs to put people’s health and the environment first.
we believe that people have the right to know that their everyday environment and the products they use are not harmful to their health, and on behalf of the socialists and democrats i call on the european commission to acknowledge the european parliament’s resolution and our legitimate concerns, as it is time to phase out endocrine disruptors once and for all.
but i think you have received today in your offices the guidelines that i laid out to all of us; so written down are details on the topics: a climate-neutral europe in 2050, a more social and competitive europe, a europe that makes use of its full potential, a europe that has a new push on european democracy and a strong europe that protects our european way of life.
the one that mattered most in the european elections was climate change and i welcome her practical approach to that.
a sustainable, comprehensive and fair european social policy, guaranteeing gender equality and the protection of the most vulnerable, is the cornerstone without which citizens' confidence in europe and its values is hard to imagine.
there are no ordinary fires; the destruction of the amazon will rapidly accelerate global warming, increase the overall temperature of the planet, and destroy biodiversity and indigenous life within the forest.
we stand for environmental measures that protect all.
these are all part of the solution and i am happy to see them in both the mission letters for the health and the environment commissioners.
europe is committed to implementing the united nations sustainable development goals.
europe is committed to implementing the united nations sustainable development goals.
however, if we are to ever win this fight, we have to fight it effectively, and that will require this union to strengthen legislation against toxic chemicals, pesticides and emissions, while truly boosting our investment of resources.
for instance, we had no internet then and that is the new environment for our children in which they are living.
we committed to free speech and the right to respect their opinion but because a girl raised her voice about our climate-changing shortcomings, the dinosaurs came out in anger at her.
we are celebrating 30 years in earnest, taking the toughest measures - economic, environmental and social - to make the world we leave behind truly worthy of our children.
i am thinking of my own italy, where many local authorities that have recently joined the league have left the re.a.dy network, which promotes good practice against discrimination and for the creation of a social climate of respect and confrontation free of prejudice.
our negotiations in the new acp-eu agreement should therefore deliver an ambitious and comprehensive political consensus that advances sustainable and inclusive development, and focuses on the priorities outlined, such as democracy and human rights, economic growth and investment, climate change, poverty eradication, peace and security, migration and mobility.
the green deal initiative, which is so ambitious, should help to create a fairer, safer, more sustainable, more socially responsible and prosperous society that meets the expectations of our people.
but the challenges facing the european union in the areas of climate change, the transition to clean energy, clean transport and many others identified in the initiative presented will only be met successfully if we turn them into opportunities.
it will be repeated again and again, and president trump was right to do so, although his decision to withdraw the united states from the paris agreement is not without criticism, that the west, and in particular europe, cannot bear the weight and responsibility of climate change and, therefore, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions alone.
moreover, environmental intransigence locks the european union in its own contradictions.
the environmental future of europe and the world depends on the resolution of these fundamental dilemmas.
the european green deal will aim to make europe the first climate—neutral continent by 2050. it is indeed very ambitious, but we cannot ignore this strong need for change.
if we want it to succeed, we need to make sure that not only the coal regions of our union, but also its energy—intensive areas, including islands, can benefit from it.
i regret that the ppe group has used a lot of energy in this debate today.
today, more than ever, mr commissioner, we need a strong anchorage to common objectives and instruments, capable of thwarting any opening to political individualism which would make the cap a mere container of resources without safeguarding the social, economic and environmental strategic importance.
madam president, the citizens of our union ask for transparency on the use of european funds, including cohesion policy, which plays a crucial role in creating sustainable growth and jobs, with the clear mission of not leaving any region of our union behind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission must set itself the objective of fully implementing the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in order to draw up a european strategy for disability beyond 2020, which is also in line with the social pillar and the sustainable development objectives.
so we should be very careful in our move for a more sustainable europe not to disadvantage the already disadvantaged.