europe is allowing more and more of this poison to be pumped into our environment, our waters, our food and our bodies.
whatever farming system you use, when you produce food, you interfere with nature and you have an environmental impact.
what we're forgetting is that farmers have already minimized their environmental impact over the past few decades, and they're eager to invest to reduce their environmental impact even more.
if you don't, you'll lose your crops, you'll have food waste and you'll need more land for your agricultural production.
this can be done through technological solutions such as precision agriculture, but also through ecological solutions.
in addition, rental vehicles are often newer, cleaner and safer, which contributes to the use of rental vehicles in a more sustainable manner.
for example, to prevent rental companies from moving to countries with a more favourable tax climate.
so i say to the commission and the council: stop your waste of money and your failed policies and support italy, poland and hungary.
and not in the form of a transfer union, but in the form of more efficient governments, fairer taxation and investing in people and sustainability.
there is only one aspect to which i would like to draw your particular attention, and that is the environmental objectives in the approach of the rapporteurs from the committee on budgets and econ.
the commission has therefore called for a lower environmental objective than that currently agreed.
and because we have to adapt to climate change, which will have an impact on the labor market.
if you look at northern ireland alone - where we recently visited with a delegation - what it means in sparsely populated areas to actually establish cooperation with universities and schools, new technology, energy generation and so on, then you need each other in the border areas.
but i would like to focus here today on the discussion concerning climate and climate proofing and the consistency of our european policies.
already in november the european commission published its long-term strategy, making it very clear that europe can be and should be zero carbon by 2050. this means that the energy sector needs to be zero carbon by 2040, because that sector needs to go first before you have the more difficult sectors to go to.
so by 2040 the energy infrastructure must be fully complied with zero emissions.
that means that the investments that we are making today need to think of how to be zero carbon in 20 years.
so the investments now need to be zero carbon.
and i know that the eib has now said that we will look at our climate strategy again, but i really would like to hear more urgency.
how is the eib going to make sure that no further investments will go into fossil fuel infrastructure, because every euro spent on fossil fuel infrastructure today will make it impossible to be zero carbon by 2050, which is our target – as the commission says – and this inconsistency needs to be solved fast.
working together with like-minded partners like canada, new zealand, japan or australia, we continue to raise the bar to protect rights, the environment, to instil high standards and principles and new sets of rules for trade in the digital age.
i believe that the european union should be in favour of an agreement which does not focus solely on industrial goods but also takes into account workers and the environment.
in schleswig-holstein, the green environment minister albrecht is even going to have problematic wolves shot, and he is right.
commissioner, this report on sustainable crop protection pays a lot of attention to integrated crop protection.
sustainability and pesticides, those are actually two words that don't belong in the same sentence.
poison is not sustainable.
toxins that were used in the time of our grandparents are still in our environment, in our food, and in our bodies.
agricultural toxins pollute our waters, they pollute our soil, they poison our health and they damage biodiversity.
the disappearance of these insects in turn has major implications for the rest of the biodiversity and all the animals that eat these insects.
the use of agricultural pesticides is explicitly mentioned as one of the main causes of biodiversity loss.
the question is how can we shift to safe and truly sustainable production methods: organic production without agricultural pesticides.
reuse of treated waste water can make a significant contribution to this.
in the interests of sustainability, i think it is important to consider whether we can start reusing waste streams, such as water.
in addition, there is another indirect effect, namely that there are already member states using treated waste water.
the products produced by those countries already using this treated waste water are also in the supermarkets of other member states that do not yet use treated waste water.
the commission has also now doubled the financial assistance envelope for bosnia and herzegovina – eur 80 million per year in grants for the period 2017-2020 – to support the country implementing a number of countrywide strategies, such as on energy, environment or rural development.
secondly, the agreement provides exclusive rights to investors but does not contain enforceable rules to achieve the sustainability objectives.
this puts pressure on the interests of man, animals and the environment.
this is one of the first documents in which the commission indicates that there is an urgent need to address the multifaceted ecological crisis we are facing.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the environment and the environment in the european union.
but then we come to the big question, the same question i asked after the presentation of the long-term climate strategy.
and it is very nice that commissioner katainen mentioned 'sustainable finance', but it is now almost all about transparency.
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
finally, mr president, the amendment of the eets directive is important in order to introduce in future a charge for use and pollution in road transport.
we are therefore putting european road transport on a sound and sustainable path.
but when it comes to digitisation, self-powered ships and sustainability, inland waterways is the most forward-looking form of transport.
the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
by organising the climate marches for children they made it clear to us that it’s their future that we are destroying at the moment.
i’m afraid the answer is no – and not only on climate but also on the systematic destruction of nature.
the eu will by far miss its own objectives on the biodiversity strategy but neither the commission nor the council have taken any measures in order to turn the tide.
but then climate – yes, we have legislation in place, and yes, we do increase the part of the eu budget dedicated to climate change, but is that sufficient?
we voted on sustainable finance and i’m afraid that, by the right-wing parts of this house, we voted out all ambition and that is extremely important because all human action starts with investments and we applaud every percentage of green investments.
it’s about time we talked again about climate change.
we’re talking about a climate crisis here.
(applause)as one of the slogans says: if climate had been a bank, it would have been safe by now.
(applause)so it really is about time also that we need to do more and i think this is really what we can see – it’s the climate marches we see on the streets, not just the strikes by the youth, but also the big marches.
on transportation, we are still lagging behind on new and future transportation, and on climate proofing of our investments we’re not delivering.
but after that, these elections, these european elections, will be about climate – about real action, because it’s time to act instead of talking.
for example, by setting up a european investment programme for jobs and growth, but subject to all sorts of societal goals, such as sustainability and inclusiveness and climate-avoidant behaviour.
it is good that global agreements have been made on this in the un's sustainable development goals.
there is no planet b. that climate policy is so lacking that thousands of young people are forced to leave their school seats and go to the streets, that should be a source of deep, deep shame, but above all, it should be a source of meaningful action.
but the fact that the old agricultural, fisheries and trade policies can continue to be pursued at the expense of the climate, biodiversity, food security, the welfare of millions of people and billions of animals undermines all the fine words that are being spoken in this house.
to actually achieve the sustainable development goals, we have to look at ourselves, and we have to produce less meat and less dairy, and therefore we have to consume less.
- mr president, when we talk about sustainability in this house, we always talk about the environmental aspects.
i would like to talk to you about the sustainability of society and culture.
so the next time we talk about sustainability here, i'd like to talk about sustainability of society and sustainability of culture.
the survival of our western society - which is also sustainability - is based on the judeo-christian and humanistic traditions as we know them and as we want to preserve them.
and i have some unfortunate doubts about that, about these sustainable development goals.
or natural biodiversity, as it were.
we have a european strategy for biodiversity.
and we had that long before we had the sustainable development goals.
we have also known for years that we are not going to achieve the goals of our own self-formulated biodiversity strategy in the long run.
in 2015, we got the state of nature report from the european environment agency, which showed that all the indicators were in the red.
so, madam president, a very simple question to the european commission: what is the commission going to do to get even closer to achieving our own biodiversity goals ...?
mr president, i would like to ask mrs hautala what she is personally doing for the environment.
a number of business elements, including energy savings, have been discontinued.
of course, it's not about saving energy anymore, we all know that.
so the commission's proposal is a waste of time.
the environment ministry wanted to have higher ambitions, but the industry and transport ministry did not.
in the old days, the commission tried to be in the middle; now, a bit too often on climate proposals, both sides improve it.
short-term policies are also not good for tackling climate change.
we are pleased that the co-rapporteurs have accepted a proposal to spend 45% of the money on climate action.
so plastic is used in the right way and in the wrong way, and the plastic waste mountain grows.
our beaches, our seas, our fish and marine life are not benefiting from all this waste.
commissioner frans timmermans said that we are on a path for a sustainable future.
president, as with the climate, it is our young people who are calling us to order in the plastic soup and putting this on the map.
they clean up our waste, waste that destroys our oceans and our biodiversity.
the most common waste found in clean-up operations worldwide is from coca-cola, pepsico, nestlé, marlboro, mcdonald's, red bull, unilever, mars and procter & gamble.
we cannot leave the health of the environment and of people and animals to the profit-making interests of these multinationals.
that's the world upside down, and i think it's also bad for the environment.
it is important for good water management, for healthy crops, for biodiversity and above all it also prevents the leakage of nutrients to ground and surface water.
it's cheaper, it's safer, it's clearer and it's better: we are not reinventing the wheel every time, but rather using our energy more efficiently and effectively.
we are debating at the council level our zero—emission economy, a climate-neutral economy.
that is very important, because there are many green products on the market, but quite often we do not know exactly what their environmental impact is, what their green impact is.
what we are doing is to show for every investment what the environmental impact is.
the last point that is on the table: if we talk about sustainable finance, it should not only be green, it should also be social.
when we are talking about sustainable finance, you cannot avoid discussing what the social implications of sustainable finance are, and that too is on the table today.
- we are discussing today a report on sustainable investment and one of the objectives of that action plan is, and i quote, 'reorienting capital flows towards sustainable investment to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth', end of quote.
it is a very big mouth to say that the rapporteurs see a shortage of capital for sustainable investment.
the commission has also proposed to the council that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency.
a production process that uses less raw materials and less energy to win.
the financial sector, mr president, is of course the key to the transition to a sustainable economy.
that's why this taxonomy is so important, because it determines when financial products can truly be called sustainable.
we cannot be satisfied if 5, 10 or 15% of the investment is sustainable.
because if that's the case, we still have 95, 90, 85 percent of the investments that are not sustainable.
the commission, the council and certainly the conservative part of this parliament must realise that we can only reach paris, that we can only achieve the goals of a circular economy and all those other sustainable objectives that we set ourselves if we can make the financial sector sustainable.
mr president, this should be an important file, if the criteria set out in an initiative report on sustainable finance by this parliament are met.
sustainability is not about being green: it should also include tax compliance, human rights, and – speaking as a social democrat – a social dimension, so that the financial sector serves us and not the other way around.
this is a very peculiar reasoning, because we signed the paris agreement and we need to be climate-neutral before 2050. we need investments in achieving that, and those investments are being made today.
if we do not get our taxonomy right, we do not give the right signals to the market to shift the trillions from non-sustainable investments to sustainable investments.
as soon as an investment delivers on its sustainability performance, it will get a positive signal, and that is what this is about.
this is not about forbidding activities; this is about steering the activities towards a green economy so that we can achieve the zero-emission, climate-neutral economy, which will provide the additional amount of jobs that the commission showed in its analysis.
if, as the rapporteur says, financially sustainable national pension systems are so vital to the stability of the union, that is precisely the argument for keeping the union away from the pension systems of the member states!
i believe that they are essential to a good economic climate.
they help us tackle terrorism and other crimes, and work towards sustainability and the financing of innovative ideas.
the new rules also anticipate the change towards sustainable finance, giving the eba a role in assessing risk for people and planet.
a stronger supervisory framework in europe is therefore needed to cope with the consequences of brexit, but also the emergence of fintech, new legislation on sustainable finance, the fight against money laundering and terrorist finance, and it’s good that the deal addresses these issues.
but one word on sustainable finance, because i think there is a role the supervisors they need to play.
we know that the risk of climate change and climate change policy are not priced in right now, not on the bank balance sheets, not on the balance sheets of insurances and pension funds and not by credit rating.
first of all to commissioner marianne thyssen, without whose initiative, energy and enthusiasm this result would not have been possible today.
president, rapporteurs, a breakthrough has been made: after 15 years of work in the committee on regional development and the committee on industry, research and energy, we can now also use the regional funds more flexibly to scale up horizon projects without completing state aid tests per member state.
for decades, companies like bayer, monsanto and syngenta have been determining how much of their agricultural waste ends up on our land, fields and food.
the consequences are clear: bee mortality, loss of biodiversity, pollution of soil and water, damage to human and animal health, and farmers who no longer even know how to produce food without chemicals.
that should also be because this is the final climate legislation that we are adopting this term so this means that, after this, we will have to have a lot of improvements for the next term.
but, on this one, we can celebrate this because it is the first time that the european union is going to regulate co2 emissions from heavy—duty vehicles.
because when people ask you about heavy—duty vehicles and how important it is, i would just remind you that it is 6% of the total european emissions, and of the road transport emissions, it is even 25%.
we achieved quite a lot on climate, on mobility, and on energy, but the work is not done, as you said.
we are not on track yet for our climate-neutral economy and we need to act faster; greta thunberg also made that point very strongly yesterday.
indeed, that’s one of the reasons why the elections in may will be about climate change.
it will be a climate change election.
– mr president, climate activist greta thunberg was in the european parliament this week and said: ‘let’s save the save the planet like we are saving notre-dame’, and she’s right.
we have to do it step by step, stone by stone, and this report, this regulation is an important building block to make the financial sector work, not just for profits but for people and planet, to make finance part of the solution of sustainability challenges and not part of the problem.
from the start, the idea has been radically simple: make sustainability part of the dna of the financial sector.
let considerations of sustainability apply as broadly as possible to all financial products, to all financial institutions, for all sorts of impacts, and as always with radical ideas, it sounds simple but the implementation is not.
indeed, sustainable finance should not be stuck in the green corner, as a manifestation of goodwill while, at the same time, as an excuse for the bulk of non-sustainable investment.
in fact, not in a green corner, but sustainability should be discussed in the boardrooms of banks, insurers, pension funds and asset managers.
this means that sustainability considerations should be integrated in every step of the decision-making – in every step.
we need a broad definition of sustainability.
this is a broad concept encompassing a wide array of considerations, ranging from biodiversity to human rights, from emissions to working conditions, and we need a broad framework to manage risks and impact – not only the identification of impacts but also actions to prevent and mitigate them; not just disclosure but also due diligence.
i would like to call on the european commission and the supervisor to use the openings in this regulation to work on standards for disclosures, to better define the social impacts of investments, to work on standards for due diligence: these are what we need to truly make the transition towards sustainable finance.
the message from the regulation on disclosure and on the critical benchmarks should be clear to the financial sector: finance will become sustainable.
– mr president, let me start by saying that i am very glad that the commission came forward with action plans for sustainable finance.
but i hope that these first steps, as ms sirpa pietikäinen said, are a clear signal to the financial sector that change is coming: we are changing towards sustainable finance.
the european elections were also unknown and unloved for a long time, but the climate crisis, the rise of right-wing extremism and brexit have roused people.
i’m delighted to see the finnish presidency is prepared to take europe on the sustainable path forward and not give up, but strengthen and not weaken europe.
the topics chosen by the presidency are climate change, putting citizens in focus and promoting a more social europe, and tightly protecting the rule of law and human rights.
it is crucial to act now on climate.
the european parliament wants to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030 and yesterday we heard the same figure from ursula von der leyen in this very same hemicycle.
if the european union wants to be the global leader in climate action and the global leader in technological solutions to boost jobs, i think that the eu should have a clear and solid message to take and present in september when the united nations have an extraordinary summit on climate.
we need to act united and in solidarity and that means more capacity for search-and-rescue actions at eu level and equally shared responsibility for rescued persons who ask for asylum, not ad hoc but on a sustainable basis.
i ask my colleagues in this house to support me in urging the high representative to set up an immediate dialogue with the turkish authorities, to reach a sustainable solution, and to hold erdoğan to his promise of keeping isis prisoners in detention.
what we are also seeing is that the waste in the various institutions is reaching ever greater heights.
i also welcome the fact that almost a fifth of the european union budget goes to environmental programmes and is directed towards combating climate change.
we are debating whether the european union is fighting climate change.
mr president, i voted in favour of the general budget because it supports programmes for youth, science, climate projects, but i am against some positions in block 15. i am sure that those who agreed to give taxpayers’ money for the product provided by the east stratcom task force did not see it at all since nobody in their right mind would pay for such a disgusting product called disinformation review.
freisin, was atthas or support laws in many of the laws on climate change and agonist.
the climate emergency is real, it's happening every day.
the urgency of action is that this european parliament declares a climate emergency to push the european commission to reduce our co2 emissions by at least 60% by 2030. it is also the case that the maritime and aviation sectors, for example through a kerosene tax, are finally participating in this transition.
it's to show that the battle of the climate is the battle of jobs, it's the battle of welfare and it's the battle of our common good.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent, highly publicized climate protests have raised the prospect of catastrophic scenarios, without offering any real solutions.
europe has already significantly reduced its greenhouse gas emissions over the past 30 years.
frans now proposes to achieve "climate neutrality" by 2050, a laudable goal but one that is so burdensome and sudden that it will weigh on citizens and businesses.
italy, by investing huge resources, will reach the 2020 decarbonisation targets, other european states, which do respect the stability pact, use coal or worse still lignite for 40% of their energy mix, and will not reach the set targets.
but then, is it more important to respect the budget balance or to protect the environment?
pollution does not stop at national borders.
we are concluding trade agreements with countries which have no environmental constraints and by importing their products we are contributing to pollution and creating unfair competition to the detriment of our own companies, which are rightly subject to stringent environmental constraints.
madam president, the next commission needs its highest based approach towards climate change, biodiversity loss and all the other ecological emergencies.
we need sustainable financial steps and impact assessments of the cost of non-actions.
madam president, it is clear that climate change has gone from being a future threat to becoming a present emergency.
that we act with a smart, ambitious and fair plan to decarbonize our economy and be carbon neutral by 2050. and that is to act on our energy, infrastructure, taxes, transport, international trade.
and, moreover, doing it in the european way - the best way possible - because you cannot negotiate with the climate, you cannot compete with it.
the climate can only be cooperated with, which is what the european union and this house are for.
mr president, the members are talking about climate change as if the end of the world had come.
climate has been changing for as long as the planet has existed.
measurement is science, and climate measurements are very different from climate models.
madam president, we cannot have a debate about climate emergency without talking about the measures we need to take.
it is true that emissions in the eu have decreased, but our carbon footprint is still increasing.
we are the biggest consumer market, so we have a responsibility to lead, and as true leaders we have to invest in climate diplomacy, get rid of fossil fuel subsidies, introduce a climate law and start using natural solutions.
i’m not convinced when i hear ms von der leyen say we need to go for a 50% reduction and if other countries follow, we go for 55. this is not only pretending to be a leader, this is ignoring the current climate emergency.
mr president, we have a great responsibility to our children and future generations to pass on the world in a sustainable way.
sustainability means three things to me.
sustainable means a cleaner world, and we need to be very ambitious about that.
sustainable also means an eu that is strategically independent of russia or the middle east in terms of energy.
so we need to look strategically at where we can best use solar, wind or other sustainable technologies in europe and how we can all benefit from them.
sustainable means, finally, an eu with a strong economy, so that our children can once again provide a good future for their children.
are we using existing gas infrastructure wisely, for example, so that it can be used for other, more sustainable purposes in the future?
ambitious, clean, strategic and a strong economy: these are the components that make climate plans truly sustainable.
a promise, first to ourselves, and a signal to the rest of the world: europe will take responsibility and show leadership for a better climate.
solidarity will be at the heart of all our future climate policy.
there are more than 50 million europeans who have difficulty paying their energy bills.
europe cannot solve the climate problem alone.
we want a fair price for carbon for air and shipping.
and it's not appropriate, especially now with the climate crisis, to continue to subsidize fossil fuels.
one of the ideas we have about this - an idea that also brought frans timmermans here - is to invest in a new hydrogen economy that will not only provide us with sustainable energy, but will also give us as europe an economy that is future-proof.
it is very important to help people who cannot pay their energy bills now to make their homes more sustainable.
do we really want to compete with the chinese digital tiger with a one—percent budget, and do we really think that we can be the climate champion of the world with pennies and dimes?
finally, on climate change, one thing that is very important: is that we take quick steps now but that they are steps that are not just in view of saving the planet, which is an imperative, which is an emergency, which is an emergency - i have no doubt about that - but also people, because people must be at the centre of politics, and what we see sometimes is that socialists put society before people, liberals put individuals before people, green people put the planet before people, and what we want is a policy for people, that is, for individuals in relation, for individuals in their context, for families, for businesses, for the relationship of solidarity.
we need households that do good work, that have a clean environment, that show that we can produce energy without destroying the planet, that make us mobile without making our cities sick and without destroying the health of our citizens, that embrace everyone and give everyone a chance to participate in the workplace and in society and to contribute - with a return - to a better society in the european union as a whole.
this sustainability agenda needs to be implemented urgently.
i believe we can help the member states to get courage by actually putting the objectives in our work plans, putting them on the sustainability agenda and making them binding in the next steps of the european semester.
president, eu leaders will discuss the 2030 climate and energy framework at the next european council.
we believe that nuclear energy is the greenest technology at the moment.
it is the safest, cleanest and most sustainable source of energy.
however, renewable energy plays a central role in the eu's long-term strategy.
for example, billions of eu subsidies are spent on polluting and deforesting biomass power plants, while generating energy from biomass emits more co2 than coal and gas currently do.
i would therefore call on eu leaders to re-examine nuclear energy objectively and to allocate more money to research into truly innovative developments such as thorium power stations.
for that, we need to have a reasonable budget where we convince those member states who say they are frugal, that it is in their interest to pool our resources at the european level to meet these challenges and we convince those member states who still cling to outdated policies, that they should embrace the potential of moving that towards new policies especially linked to climate change.
and that is that there is a contradiction between being ambitious on climate policy and saving our industry.
i think now that even jeremy clarkson recognises that there is a climate crisis, i think there’s no more space for any climate deniers anywhere.
secondly, as noted in this debate, the european union needs to continue to spearhead climate action and lead by example in order to help raise global ambition.
this means engaging in a long—term transition to a climate neutral economy.
we need to tackle climate change, ensure a stable economy, be innovative, the digital agenda, but also protect the rule of law, gain control on migration and provide safety and security in an unstable world, where we cannot always rely on our old allies.
i would therefore urge the high representative not to spend any energy in exchanging words with the united states on this matter.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is intended to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy.
an international climate agreement such as the one in paris is of course great, but without clear agreements on its implementation it is nothing more than empty words.
we must make the production of goods for europe more sustainable and we must set strict requirements for it.
if you do not want to contribute to a cleaner climate and to make your industry more sustainable, you will find yourself at the border.
and let us now make these agreements the best they can be, based on our values and with respect for the environment.
and that is why i call upon the commission to effectively enforce the timber regulation to save the amazon, which is a crucial part of our global ecosystem and home to indigenous people, whose fundamental rights are on the line.
in spite of this premise, we are here today to ask whether trade agreements, such as the one with vietnam, are compatible with our environmental, social and labour standards.
in the negotiations, only specific interests are being guiltfully protected, without any real reciprocity, often sacrificing the side of human rights and favouring certain productive sectors at the expense of others, almost always agri-food and environmental.
and it is precisely on the side of environmental sustainability that these agreements seem to be most lacking.
these treaties do nothing to strengthen or improve the environmental standards of the partner countries.
if the eu really intends to be consistent with its long-standing principles of protecting the environment, the seas and the oceans, why does it not simply ask that the ban on the use of single-use plastics be made a binding condition for the countries with which we conclude these free trade agreements?
it's the only way we can work together on sustainability.
firstly, europe accounts for 9% of atmospheric emissions, the four mercosur countries for 3.5%, and i believe that these emissions are largely offset by a large forest area and one of the lowest population densities on the planet.
furthermore, on the sustainable development chapter, which is an essential chapter of this agreement, i believe that this chapter is the best guarantee for the protection of biodiversity, for the protection of deforestation and for the maintenance of the commitments that these governments have made with the agreement of the paris conference and it is also the best guarantee against the vicious policies of president bolsonaro to prevent him from continuing in what he has done.