it’s worth pointing out one more time why we are focusing on road transport: because it represents 70% of all the emissions that transport is contributing in europe.
the new legal framework will also give us more control over air quality, as the chartered fleet will have to meet high environmental standards to be allowed to operate internationally.
they will improve the efficiency of road transport, which will also be beneficial for the environment.
you're having an effect on your climate policy - that's where it started, with the rebellion against fuel price increases.
it's a good presidential program, security protection, practical environmental successes, protecting the market from the internet giants and other things that the chancellor has outlined in his speech.
responding to migration through 'cooperation with countries of origin and transit' and 'dialogue between all member states to find an effective and sustainable solution'.
the investeu programme can be an important instrument to stimulate investment in regions undergoing an energy transition.
my amendments in the envi committee make it clear that investments supported by investeu include expenditure to support regions undergoing climate change, both social and infrastructure.
i would therefore like to ask whether this programme will allow us to finance investments in mining regions, in regions undergoing an energy transition.
climate policy is one of the main policies of the european union.
it is well known that countries with a coal-based energy mix face a high cost in terms of adapting to climate rigors.
i cannot stress enough that the strategic values of the agreement extend beyond the sphere of trade, as it provides a solid foundation for a deeper relationship with a long—term commitment to human rights, social rights, the rights of indigenous peoples and farmers, and obviously the environment.
parliament has repeatedly encouraged the commission to strengthen the monitoring and implementation of the chapters on trade and sustainable development, including an effective enforcement mechanism for labour standards and environmental protection.
for the modern worker to cope with globalization, digitalization, modern technology, to ensure smart and sustainable economic growth, high human health, improved employment opportunities, we need a modern welfare system that fits new forms of work and an aging society.
but solidarity is not about paying for someone else's waste.
a healthy business environment is a pre-condition for securing the competitiveness and solvency of the european economy.
first of all, the eib is a policy taker, not a policy maker, which means that any limits on climate issues are set by the owners of the bank, the member states.
secondly, it is of course worth mentioning that the eib operates on the basis of its own policies, the last one being the climate policy established over 3 years ago, but also on the basis of mandates granted by the legislators, the fc, the juncker plan.
one caveat i wanted to make very clear is that it is controversial to call for the eib to finance only those projects that have shown real added value for the local population, because climate issues can create obstacles to investment.
but the states still have to pay their contribution to the union, part of the taxes and the levy associated with the carbon dioxide fees, which are expected to increase in the coming years to the extent that they will destroy poland's energy and economy.
a man who cannot even harbor hatred for his enemies was stabbed in gdansk, a city marked by multiculturalism, bad history and good history, in the finale of a great charity event, unique in that it mobilizes the good energy of millions of people.
– mr president, i must say i would be rather cautious about regulating this so-called hate speech problem and what you call the political climate.
when, some years ago, mr schäuble was attacked by a lunatic, we didn’t talk about the political climate, and that was a good decision.
so this disturbing climate of negative narrative is permeating the general public and can slowly shape a bleak vision of public life.
the law is the only and most essential instrument that allows us to function in such a diverse political and ideological environment as we find ourselves in in the european union.
the agreement on the possibility of exporting liquefied gas to us is particularly important from the point of view of europe's energy security.
thanks to this agreement, we are now less dependent on russia or the middle east for energy, which should make us happy.
it will also contribute to the creation of a secure online environment, build quality and trust and ensure a pan-european presence in the global digital market.
the same applies to energy competitiveness.
we will have to drop the things which do not work – which are only a waste of time and money – and we must do better, not just with talk but with action.
europe cannot afford to waste the potential of so many of its people.
you presented an ambitious plan for the future finnish presidency, you talked a lot about the environment, about the economy, about implementing various solutions.
secondly - and most importantly - it is about the prudent and sustainable exploitation of marine resources, based on the available scientific advice and taking into account the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
the eu has a long-standing commitment to the protection of the marine environment and the conservation of marine resources.
so it is our duty to protect the marine ecosystem, the precious fish stocks and biodiversity for future generations, but also to support other countries, including côte d'ivoire.
mr president, in the end, i think we all want the same thing –that’s responsible and sustainable fishing.
as such, it provides for close collaboration to promote the sustainable exploitation of fishing resources in those waters, and it also supports the efforts of the country to develop the blue economy, in the interests of both us and them.
there is no doubt that the union's environmental policy is necessary and is producing tangible results.
i would remind you that the rapporteur, while agreeing with the message addressed mainly to agriculture, pointed out that the regulation defining at european union level should also be harmonised with regard to the use of municipal waste water.
we will vote to promote not only economic growth but also norms and values that will help address today’s complex global value chains, achieving a level playing field while promoting social inclusion and environmental protection.
diseases of civilization, including cancer, are largely the result of environmental pollution that surrounds us.
industrial food production, pollution of water, soil, air, carcinogenic building materials all bring their rewards in the form of cancer.
over the past three years, the member states of the european union have taken the lead in the ongoing process of addressing the challenges of achieving the sustainable development goals, such as ensuring coherence with other international commitments, working on the establishment of indicators and monitoring mechanisms, or supporting developing countries.
the publication of the commission's analysis paper 'towards a sustainable europe by 2030' which sets out three scenarios for how the european union can continue to achieve the sustainable development goals is therefore to be welcomed.
progress towards the eu's sustainable development goals has been good, especially in the fight against poverty and health promotion.
in the coming years, we will face major challenges in the management of natural resources, the transition to a circular economy and energy efficiency.
that is why i am opposed to the document's attempts to impose social, migration, energy and undefined rule of law policies on countries.
i am strongly opposed to raising climate targets and aligning energy, transport and social policies.
if unanimity is overwhelming when it comes to reacting to tax scandals and when public pressure is strong, it can paralyse when it comes to structural reforms (energy tax, climate change, digitax, financial transaction tax, consolidated common base, vat).
we could pursue broader social objectives, such as environmental protection, by taxing polluting activities or regulating financial markets or taxing financial transactions.
he's charging a huge tax on energy, fuel.
we need to decide what really matters, what is core in terms of the digital ecosystem, and whether greater transparency around suppliers, supply chains and foreign investment is enough to offset the security risks.
customs authorities must strike the right balance between facilitating legitimate trade, customs controls protecting citizens, animals and the environment in europe, building consumer confidence in goods entering the internal market and the union's commercial interests.
recent evidence suggests that long-term use of hormonal contraceptives may increase the risk of developing glioblastoma, as well as other types of cancer, in addition to the obvious effects of other harmful environmental factors that should be eliminated.
the naiades programme mentioned by the president aims to increase inland waterway transport and thus achieve a sustainable transport system for the european union.
this should be a key task, as environmental issues will certainly be the subject of the election campaigns this spring, and the next commission should therefore take account of the evaluation of the current legislation and propose concrete solutions.
among the many issues that need to be addressed are air pollution, together with the impact of climate change, and the deterioration of health, especially for people living in areas adjacent to airports.
it has been shown that high concentrations of pm2.5 and tropospheric ozone emitted by airports in built-up areas kill 5,000 people within a 20-kilometer radius each year.
in addition to noise, the production of harmful dust, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, generates 2% of global greenhouse gas emissions, as evidenced by the world map of air travel, where the usa, western europe and asia with japan are the main destinations.
one thing is to stimulate economic growth, but we cannot forget about sharing our norms and values, as well as promoting social inclusion and environmental protection.
and finally, the battle to counter protectionism, the closing of markets to rich european countries, including competitiveness, at the expense of economic energy, especially the energy of the nations of central and eastern europe.
we have to use it to its full extent to further provide peace, stability, security and development, and social sustainability for this country.
the paris agreement paves the way to a clean environment.
we need a low-carbon strategy.
we need to focus on research and innovation, and seek adequate funding for regions undergoing climate change, especially for coal regions such as my region of silesia.
that is why i hope that the socialists and alde will support my resolution, in which i speak of a just transition - a transition that excludes no one, does not exclude member states with a very difficult energy mix, dominated by coal.
poland's energy mix is 80% coal-based, while france's is only 2%.
do we want a clean environment?
so let's give a chance to the countries that have a coal-heavy energy mix.
if we say we have an energy shortage, it means poverty, misery, unemployment.
we need to think and then act in an evolutionary way, that is, in a way that builds bridges to achieve climate-efficient goals.
the eu's energy transition cannot be as chaotic as it is now, and the move away from fossil fuels should be gradual.
it also means fewer errors of substance on the part of the commission, which equates energy efficiency with reducing energy consumption.
you have to invest in real energy efficiency, but it costs money.
energy poverty cannot be created by recklessness, and it is growing and will continue to grow, including as a result of the eu's imposed solutions, for example in the area of the ets.
the exponentially approaching crisis of civilisation coincides with the climate crisis, but also, in general, with the demographic crisis, and requires not only an energy transformation of europe and the world, but a complete departure from the current consumer civilisation.
conclusion: climate protection is not just a european problem, but a global one, and requires a different, more comprehensive approach than has been the case so far, involving all countries.
we cannot accept the abandonment of coal for energy production by 2030, as the energy sector in poland is based on coal due to the availability of raw materials in the country and justified by economic and social reasons.
modern low-carbon energy is also needed in europe, as a guarantee of security in the nuclear sector and in the electricity supply sector against the unstable and unpredictable development of renewable sources.
scientific research is needed and is being carried out in our country to reduce pollution and innovative technologies to change the operating mode of power units with a capacity of over two hundred megawatts to new requirements related to improving the flexibility of work and reducing emissions of pollutants such as oxides, halogens, boron or mercury.
i also have to mention the protection of vulnerabilities in the energy-intensive sector.
it's about the differences in gas and energy prices and regulatory costs in the us and the eu especially in poland.
an immediate response from the education system to the challenges of industry 4.0 and a multicultural, green and mobile europe is needed to ensure the sustainable and balanced development of our economy.
and it's the same when we talk about innovation, when we talk about modern solutions, when we talk about climate change.
i would like to point out that it is still up to the court to decide whether the child will be placed in a foster home, a foster care home or with relatives, taking into account the child's background and the cultural environment in which he or she has lived.
in the strategy for achieving the sustainable development goals, we must adopt a general principle: it must be development to improve the quality of life of society for present and future generations, not to maximize profit for the individual at any cost.
there must therefore be harmony and order in social, economic and environmental policies while maintaining economic efficiency.
global sustainable development therefore requires: the development and consolidation of democracy and human rights; the promotion of good governance; humanitarian aid; the development of human capital, entrepreneurship and the private sector; the promotion of sustainable agriculture, rural development and environmental protection; the strengthening of health care; the sustainable management of natural resources and waste; the reduction of unemployment and poverty among the population.
we must always remember that the natural environment and the civilized human environment are interconnected vessels, and so the vessels on either side must be filled with values.
it remains important for kazakhstan to continue to take steps to foster an enabling environment for civil society, human rights defenders, lawyers, trade unionists and journalists.
in line with this approach, the european union has repeatedly called on iran to provide human rights defenders with an open, stable environment in which to conduct their work.
we are encouraged by the attention paid to this issue by members of the european parliament and we will continue our effort to work together with you in order to promote a better environment for human rights defenders across the world, including in iran.
in a resolution of our group of european conservatives and reformists, we note that the european union is responsible for less than 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions and that the union cannot achieve the paris agreement goals on its own without the participation of the world's largest economies.
the joint resolution adopted does not refer to the use of the union's own raw materials and, therefore, to ensuring the community's energy security, for example by promoting clean coal technology, and in particular coal gasification aimed at producing hydrogen as a clean energy source.
and there's not going to be any technology that will allow us to not emit greenhouse gases for the foreseeable future.
the only effect will be to slaughter the traditional socialist european economy without making any progress on climate.
and you write about a stable and predictable energy policy framework.
in the year since i've been in this parliament, we've voted on a dozen climate policy changes.
it is a man's duty to avoid this, so that this money does not fall into the hands of stupid politicians who are likely to waste it.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
well, i think it's time to set the conditions for a truly equitable energy transition.
before we implement any more ambitious climate targets - and we know that the eu is currently projected to be a completely carbon neutral economy by 2050 - before we do that, let's take care of the people most at risk from the elimination of conventional energy sources such as coal, oil and natural gas.
the energy transition requires a country-specific and regional approach.
it has to go hand in hand with the security of energy supply, with maintaining the competitiveness of individual economies.
but first and foremost, let us put households at the heart of this process, especially those already facing energy poverty.
common sense is also needed when it comes to the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission has been working on a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the transport sector accounts for one third of the union's energy consumption and road transport for 22% of total greenhouse gas emissions.
the new tyre labelling model will provide consumers with greener, safer and quieter vehicles and will help reduce emissions in the transport sector.
it's important not only for the environment, but for the health of each and every one of us.
the result is a transparent solution for consumers, accelerating the environmental quality and performance of tyres, making them healthier and safer.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
we have here the empowerment of the recipients themselves, which is very important, we also have at least the willingness, the intention to strengthen climate protection, that is to say to reduce emissions, as well as we are trying to regulate these regulations which have been so extensive that they have harmed de facto everyone.
the new directive's greatest achievement is to cover all imported gas pipelines within the european union, including in territorial waters, under the third energy package.
infrastructure supplying gas from third countries will also be covered, so that new pipelines cannot be built in a legal vacuum, as was the case with nord stream 1. the change in legislation will have a positive impact on europe's energy security and prices.
the plan should empower energy consumers, improve cross-border trade, ensure security of supply, facilitate the production of electricity from clean sources and thus provide citizens with a healthier environment, a better climate.
to achieve this, we need to move to a low-carbon electricity generation system, integrate a lot of distributed renewable energy sources, introduce decentralized energy production, of course also involving the electricity consumers themselves, but what is very important is that we need to create an effective power market, and with public support, without this we will not achieve this goal.
the next item is the report by miriam dalli, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down emission performance standards for new passenger cars and for new light commercial vehicles as part of the union's integrated approach to reduce co2 emissions from light-duty vehicles and amending regulation (ec) no 715/2007 (recast) (com (2017) 0676 - c8-0395/2017 - 2017/0293 (cod)) (a8-0287/2018).
on the one hand, environmentalists are calling for faster and more extensive implementation of the solution, and for better climate protection.
europe could not even afford to stop the construction of nord stream 2. and let's remember that while the first nord stream was designed to isolate the baltic states and poland, nord stream 2 is directly aimed at the energy isolation of ukraine.
i'll start by saying that i'm not an eco-terrorist, but i'm certainly a supporter of this kind of orthodox concern for the state of the earth, the state of the environment.
i would point out that the rules for the placing on the market of organic fertilisers and agricultural and livestock waste as raw material for fertiliser production are still unclear.
it is estimated that up to one third of these imports could be replaced by bio-waste such as sewage sludge, manure, manure, meat and bone meal.
the potential for recycling organic waste to obtain valuable fertilising ingredients should be used more widely.
some environmental organizations estimate that turning the faucet on when brushing your teeth in a household of four saves up to three gallons [900 l] of water a month.
if we reduced our consumption of bottled water, european households would save around €600 million a year and - just as importantly - reduce plastic waste and greenhouse gas emissions.
so, moving towards a circular economy, promoting sustainable and resource-efficient drinking water management, which will help reduce bottled water consumption, will in turn reduce greenhouse gas emissions and marine litter.
it is therefore necessary to adapt drinking water quality standards to the latest scientific evidence and to change the regulatory framework to better respond to new challenges such as climate change and the transition to a circular economy.
the next item is the report by mr basa eickhout and mrs sirpa pietikäinen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment (com (((2018) 0353 - c8-0207/2018 - 2018/0178 ((cod)) (a8-0175/2019).
the commission's initiative to establish common principles for the assessment of sustainable investments is clearly needed.
consumers are increasingly turning to eco-friendly products - food or energy.
they're increasingly interested in the impact of the products they buy on the environment, the climate, or the welfare of animals.
these important incentives are often exploited by unfair producers, and harmonised methods for determining which investments are sustainable can bring tangible benefits and curb unfair practices.
however, i think that there is a need for some caution in order for this framework for defining sustainable investments to work in practice.
first of all, it doesn't make sense to say which investments are bad for the environment.
we have a lot of regulations in the european union to limit the environmental damage of business activities.
i am all for social justice and protecting workers, but it is better to limit ourselves to the environmental assessment for now, and only after gaining experience to see if we can evaluate the impact on workers' rights later.
the econ and envi votes are a viable and balanced solution, avoiding negative elements that would jeopardise the successful implementation of sustainable investments.
today we are discussing an important report on the establishment of a framework to facilitate the financing of sustainable economic investment in the european union.
the european commission has developed criteria to determine whether an investment contributes to the transformation of the european economy towards environmental and climate objectives.
we have an ambitious task to tackle climate change, which is why i support the european commission's proposal.
at the same time, however, i believe that the approach to sustainable finance must be realistic and based on technology neutrality.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions should go hand in hand with preserving the competitiveness of european industry.
we should consider the broadest range of technologies that support the fight against global warming.
unfortunately, the proposal put forward by the rapporteurs threatens to eliminate a whole range of investments aimed at reducing co2 emissions.
arbitrary exclusion of certain technologies will lead to a situation where sustainable finance will be limited to a very narrow group of investments and will not produce a scale effect.
we cannot support solutions that a priori and administratively exclude entire sectors of industry from access to sustainable finance.
i think our job is to create incentives and mobilize the industry to do low-carbon activities, not punish them.
the criteria for selecting sustainable investments must be objective, proportionate and based on scientific research, including market research.
the gas supply is the most delicate and difficult issue for europe's energy security.
it is essential that the rules of the internal energy market of the union apply throughout the union, including the territorial waters of the member states, which are very important in this case.
we are, in fact, 10 years behind, because the directive, the third energy package, was introduced exactly 10 years ago during the czech presidency in 2009. i would like to pay particular tribute to commissioner miguel cañete for taking the initiative to introduce this solution, and to the romanian presidency for having been very courageous in entering into the negotiations.
we cannot and will not allow any gas pipeline which is harmful to our energy security or which is incompatible with the objectives of the energy union, i.e.
the gas market agreement does not bode well for the future of energy solidarity, which, along with nord stream, is being buried for the second time at the bottom of the baltic.
this directive aims at extending the main principles of the energy union also to the gas infrastructure, gas pipelines that come to the union from third countries; this is very important.
i'm afraid that these loopholes and inaccuracies will allow for exemptions for a number of energy projects.
the construction of controversial pipelines, which threaten europe's energy security, will not only not be stopped, but on the contrary, will be carried out with the legal blessing of the union.
the european maritime and fisheries fund, which is part of the cfp, is designed to promote sustainable fisheries and aquaculture and fish processing.
the european maritime and fisheries fund is designed to promote sustainable fisheries and aquaculture and fish processing, to contribute to the recovery of fish stocks, to support small-scale fisheries, young fishermen and innovative investments.
the rational use of fish stocks and the protection of the ecosystem should remain a priority for the eu, with a clear strategy to counter the natural and anthropogenic factors that are causing the current alarming state of stocks and even more catastrophic forecasts.
with this plan we have struck a good and realistic balance between the conservation and socio-economic dimensions through a progressive reduction of the fishing effort to achieve maximum sustainable yield.
we are confident that this will contribute to more sustainable fisheries and pave the way for a better management of mediterranean fisheries.
customs help to safeguard the financial interests of the union and its member states while protecting them against terrorism, health, environmental and other threats.
and all this so that you have more money to waste on other, mostly meaningless, unfortunately, projects.
one effective customs check that detects some irregularity - we must not forget this - means many idle checks during which nothing is detected, only citizens waste time in meaningless queues, just because the government is looking in the trunks of cars for extra cigarette packs that it can tax.
i have been working on security issues for almost five years, and i know how important energy systems are, the sovereignty of these systems, legal consistency, and i am very happy to say that these 142 amendments have been replaced by 15 good compromises.
this has resolved issues concerning new energy networks in the european union, old networks in the european union, but also old and possibly new ones being created outside the european union.
like my predecessor, i feel that in building the energy union we must take into account geopolitical interests and a certain independence from suppliers in addition to economic benefits, and at a time when we see russia as a threat to the eu, to the democratic world, i consider the strengthening of energy dependence on this country to be a major problem.
it threatens the long-term sustainability of our public finances.
to fight against cyber—threats and ensure that the cyber—environment is safe we need a society—wide approach as well as international cooperation.
there will be no innovative europe without a boost in research into health, environmental protection, safety, food quality, energy efficiency, support for the development of artificial intelligence for the benefit of man.
so-called zero-emission vehicles emit the most pollution, just not in the place where they're driving.
she can shout all she wants that she wants to reduce, because we young people here want to, but if there is no technology that allows us to reduce such emissions, then it will just be hidden, it will be moved from one place to another with some technological tricks, and often it will cause global emissions to increase, so this report is simply irresponsible.
you said that we have done so much for the climate, so please tell me what we have done for the climate, because all i see are the printed sheets of paper that parliament is making out, and the climate is what it was.
tell me, what have we done for the climate?
he raised a question about what this parliament has done for climate change.
what has the european union done for climate change?
before 2020, we established ambitious targets and, in 2017, we reduced our emissions by more than 22%, compared with 1990, while gdp grew by 58%.
we have reduced emissions, we have developed renewables and we have increased energy efficiency.
but this parliament, in five years, has delivered a formidable legislative framework on energy and climate.
we have established a substantial number of pieces of legislation, which will deliver a reduction of emissions in 2030 of 45% and, if they are unchanged (but they will be changed), in 2050 will deliver a 60% reduction of emissions.
in the energy package, 80% of the votes in each package were in favour, and on climate, without taking account of tomorrow’s vote, 76%.
in the last opinion poll, published last wednesday, i saw that 77% of potential voters identified global warming as an important criterion when deciding who to vote for in the may european elections, and that’s a very important issue.
i think when we have the european elections, climate change policy has been one of the main factors to be discussed within them.
we will have the position that, in the next five years, we will complete this package, we will make further progress and we will work together towards making the european union the first major economy to become climate neutral in 2050.
in writing.
however, this does not include the total co2 emissions including those from the previous energy-intensive processing of crude oil as a primary energy source or from the production of renewable fuels, including biogas.
the issue of reducing emissions from the use of biofuels and alternative fuels should also be addressed.
the energy efficiency of the propulsion units is an important issue, as an increase of one percent reduces co2 emissions by up to several percent.
however, the increased efficiency of diesel engines may result in an increase in nox emissions.
in view of all this, the european commission should develop a better methodology for an objective and comprehensive way of calculating co2 emissions and avoiding nox emissions.
the new methodology for advanced and renewable fuels should allow for further, substantial co2 emissions reductions.
the question of why we need this directive is justified by the initiative of the european commission, because nearly 60% - some say as much as two thirds - of the emissions that cause smog come from road transport.
and the public sector needs clean, energy-efficient buses, trucks, vans, but also specialized equipment that gives them a chance to deliver good public services.
as part of these objectives, we have taken care to ensure as much flexibility as possible in the use of low-carbon technologies.
we hope that the use of low-emission technologies, including gas mobility, including natural gas, biomethane and liquefied gas, will allow for a rapid reduction in emissions from public transport through the emission of pollutants such as nitrogen oxides.
it will also make better use of, for example, biogas, which we will be able to obtain in large quantities from organic waste in the future, as we have written among others after my proposal in the european circular economy.
but new technologies also pose not only technical challenges, but also social and environmental ones.
we must remember that battery production also has an environmental impact and leads to negative impacts also where we obtain minerals for their production.
so we need to accelerate the development of sustainable battery production and batteries that can be used more widely, reused first by extending their life, and then recycled.
i think it is important to recall that major city networks, police, eurocity, then local governments for sustainability, the council of european municipalities and regions, have recently written to the european parliament and to the romanian presidency expressing full support for the commission’s proposal.
primary energy use is much higher here.
secondly, we also know very well that supporting the development of this sector, as we say, of clean, low-emission vehicles, is also creating a certain movement in the manufacturing sector itself, and on the other hand it is helping these cities, and we have many of them in europe, who are struggling with clean air, with air quality, with reducing emissions.
transport today accounts for almost a quarter of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions and is the main cause of air pollution in cities.
the aim of low-carbon mobility is therefore justified, as it is a prerequisite for the transition to a low-carbon economy that promotes environmental improvements.
it is the only way to improve the state of the environment in europe.
it is a very important step towards a more transparent business environment and the prevention of fraud.
as chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, i am very pleased that we are developing defence capabilities, but above all our own strong and competitive industry.
i hope for a positive vote tomorrow, and again, let me thank all of you – the rapporteur, shadow rapporteurs and the chair of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), mr buzek (because i have not mentioned him before) – thank you very much for all your hard work on this file.
i think we can say that we have proposed to you, dear porters, seafarers and fishermen, the following: a unified environmental monitoring system in both the port and maritime dimensions.
regarding the situation in the english-speaking regions of the north-west and south-west, we have consistently called for dialogue as the only way to achieve a sustainable solution, in a non-violent and inclusive manner, respecting fundamental rights and the rule of law.
they don't know enough about it to see if there's really an environmental benefit to the fact that electric cars don't emit pollution where they're driven, but they do emit it at the power plant.
i welcome her promises to promote geopolitically sustainable economic development and to work on a minimum wage in the eu.
it also announced the commission's work to curb the dangerous effects of climate change, including financing these activities with energy policy consideration and the introduction of tariffs on goods from countries that pollute the environment.
in particular, two topics were raised in most speeches, namely rule of law and climate policy.
on climate policy, some members said – quite well – that, just as important as talking about dates or years or percentages, is to devise ways of how we can achieve our ambitious targets.
i would say that the big issue for me is climate change.
but they are asking us, as their representatives, to make the greatest possible effort to minimise the impact of climate change and to create the conditions for a clean, energy-efficient and modern economy that will ensure that new jobs are created in the future.
the finnish presidency has a great opportunity to work together to create a better future that is socially, economically, but above all ecologically sustainable.
when the government was formed in 2015, there were declarations (and then concrete actions): we are improving the climate, we are improving the air, we are improving energy efficiency, and we are also working to eliminate energy poverty.
we cannot allow the word to be used that we do not know how many deaths have occurred in europe because of air pollution.
congresswoman, the hard data says that air pollution kills 400,000, close to 500,000 people.
i think we need more innovative approaches to energy, transportation and spatial planning.
it was stressed that the european union must become a leading force in this area and also reach a wider agreement on climate change and the environment.
that is why we have implemented the 'green sanctuaries' programme in our region to take care of clean air in the context of ecological, sustainable development, which concerns one of the regions with the highest percentage of protected natural areas.
but in addition to low emissions, transport emissions also contribute to smog.
we also need to ensure that alternative fuels infrastructure is developed to promote low-carbon technologies.
and i regret to say that the people who live there are often burning all kinds of waste, plastic and other waste that has a very negative impact on our health.
as many of you have said here, pollution is 400,000 deaths across the european union, and 40,000 deaths a year in my country, poland.
we hear from our kids that we're living in a climate crisis, because it's not about climate change anymore, it's a real crisis.
a few weeks ago, i was protesting with my daughters in the center of gdańsk as part of a holiday climate protest.
imagine that there are still cities in europe where children on their way to school inhale as much pollution as a pack of cigarettes.
so when i hear politicians who are dismissing the climate crisis and trying to tell us that it's eco-fancy, it's really those politicians who are killing our children.
the polish minister of the environment decided on the mass logging of the forest.
in taking part in this debate, i would like to stress that my country, poland, is one of the leaders in the union when it comes to sustainable, multifunctional forest management.
in this context, it is fortunate that forests have finally been included in the climate and energy policy framework by a regulation of the parliament and the council of may 2018, which means that the absorption of co2 emissions by forests will finally be included in the emission balances of individual eu countries.
this will have a positive impact on forestry development after 2020. unfortunately, climate change is having a negative impact on europe's forests: high temperatures, long periods of drought, snowless winters and, in addition, extreme weather events such as hurricane winds, as well as the invasion of pests, including in particular the printer's moth, are causing enormous damage, which requires support for forest management.
in the face of intense heat waves, pest infestations and wood diseases, we must redouble our efforts to ensure that our european forests are well managed and continue to play an economic, social and environmental role.
we must still allow ourselves to exploit our resources in full respect of sustainable development and the long-term growth of our forest heritage.
they are essential to support forest owners in their sustainable forest management.
we also believe that our research project should be mobilised to support adaptation to climate change.
the second question is: in order to make trade agreements a real lever against deforestation, do you intend to make the sustainable development chapter binding, with sanctions?
our forest is a habitat, a supplier of wood, a recreation area and a climate protector at the same time.
we must not leave our hope-bearer against climate change alone, but must support him.
according to eurostat, europe's forests absorb 10% of the eu's total greenhouse gas emissions each year.
it is clear that a managed forest is more effective in combating climate change than a forest left to itself.
on the one hand, wood as a building material binds carbon permanently, and on the other hand, sustainable management ensures above all healthy trees and thus a maximum co2 absorption capacity.
poorly managed forests, on the other hand, are the losers of climate change.
sustainable and active forest management is therefore a guarantee of healthy forests and their high co2 absorption capacity.
their ability to absorb and offset part of the greenhouse gas emissions depends on their condition.
the state of the forests also determines the level of biodiversity.
the commissioner spoke of a huge amount of over 320 billion euros for environmental action, but he forgot to say that the commission has not prepared a budget for the transition.
at the same time, i want to ask whether such ambitious plans will not result in if other economies do not join us emissions increasing instead of decreasing because the whole european union will move to countries where you can afford a lower standard for a high-carbon economy.
this week, the world's media will be flooded with news of the unprecedented climate summit in new york.
it is clear that environmental policy has become the mainstream of politics.
the pursuit of a sustainable future must go hand in hand with solidarity, with the social groups and regions - those most affected by the accelerated changes in the structure of european economies.
in new york, you will also represent socially disadvantaged citizens from countries that need much more time to make the energy transition.
eurozone member states do not need to worry about a liquidity shortage in time of crisis and they do not need to waste national resources to accumulate international currency reserves, to name just two of the benefits.
how can we not denounce bolsonaro, a climate-skeptic who wants to sell his country and the amazon to agribusiness, whose government like the previous one is corrupted by jbs, the world leader in beef, and who is xenophobic, homophobic, sexist?
but if you do not see that the mercosur agreement that brazil has signed because it is going to export soybeans and beef is structurally destructive of the amazon and structurally climate-destroying, if you do not see that the proposal for the common agricultural policy, put forward by the commission and supported by you, will increase imports of brazilian soybeans, then you do not see your responsibility, you do not participate in stopping the forest fires, the destruction of the amazon and the people who live there!
these are the lungs of the world that determine whether or not we're going to survive the climate.
and that will be catastrophic for biodiversity.
the new commission will have to tackle these problems at their root, in the cap and in the trade policy of the european union, if we are to make a serious commitment to achieving the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda, and if we are to make a real commitment to reducing poverty, hunger, inequalities and indiscriminate exploitation of resources in the world.
the amazon, the lungs of the world and the reservoir of biodiversity, is being cut down, ravaged by fires.
for the agreement to be adopted and to have the desired effect, the mercosur countries must not only meet the climate and sustainable development criteria, but also implement the european equivalent of animal welfare and food safety criteria that a french, german or polish farmer must meet.
we know that european banks are investing millions of euros in south american non-sustainable crops, leading to deforestation of the amazon for soybean production.
all these fires once more underline the sense of urgency required in joining our forces to fight climate change.
forests are indispensable and are vital to our efforts to fight climate change.
in the trade and sustainable development chapter of the eu—mercosur trade agreement, both the eu and the mercosur countries, including brazil, accepted an explicit commitment to effectively implement the paris agreement.
in addition to provisions to promote sustainable trade and the trade agreement itself, let me note that the trade deal is part of an overall association agreement covering dialogue on human rights and cooperation in many fields, including the environment and climate change.
the eu—mercosur agreement includes a comprehensive trade and sustainable development chapter containing legally binding commitments on environmental protection, as well as climate change, including a commitment to the implementation of the paris agreement.
where a party fails to comply with a commitment, we can resort to the dispute settlement mechanism, tailored to the specifics of labour and environment.
we trust and expect, but above all, we will ensure that brazil will live up to its own commitments in the framework of the paris agreement, which includes a pledge by brazil to reduce by 2025 its net greenhouse gas emissions by 37% compared to 2005 levels, and an action plan to stop illegal deforestation, including in the brazilian amazon.
on our part, we also committed a pledge by the eu to reduce our domestic emissions by at least 40% by 2030. some meps commented that we should also tackle the demand side regarding the marketing of products associated with deforestation.
the trade agreement with mercosur contains a robust trade and sustainable development chapter which lives up to the highest standards comparable to those in other modern agreements.
the basic premise is that increased trade should not come at the expense of the environment or labour conditions; on the contrary, it should promote sustainable development.
the mercosur agreement contains a specific article on climate change committing the parties to effectively implement the paris agreement.
i would also like to note that open, ambitious and rules-based trade policy which is value-based, sustainable and inclusive is a priority for the finnish presidency.
many of you also referred to the urgency of climate action.
the time to act on climate change is now, not later.
this is why it is crucial to agree on an ambitious target of climate neutrality in the european union by 2050 as soon as possible.
these fires are a dramatic example of what can happen when, as in capitalist society, the profit motive overrides basic environmental and social concerns.
but this does not legitimise those who have pretensions to favour plans and processes of economic domination and thus ways of transferring costs to the peoples of the world of environmental degradation, erasing the responsibilities of the capitalist mode of production.
record-breaking fires, increasingly set by arsonists, the pollution of rivers by toxic waste from illegal mining, and the encroachment of indigenous peoples on their lands for mineral resources are destroying one of the world's largest tropical forests.
these two burning continents are a sanctuary for biodiversity and an essential tool in the fight against climate change.
this is the area known as the lungs of the world (it produces 20% of the world's oxygen) and is crucial for tackling climate change.
in contrast, large-scale fires that occur there have the potential to release large amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.
it is certainly good that the proposed eu-mercosur agreement includes measures to combat climate change.
the scale of the environmental disaster is clear: two weeks ago, mapu huni kuin from the brazilian state of acre warned us in the european parliament: 'the fires are destroying our livelihoods and our homes.
they are vital for biodiversity, climate protection and economic and social well-being.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
it is important to note that all new eu trade agreements, including mercosur, now include figures on sustainable development.
it gives us the backbone to demand from our trading partners the maintenance of international agreements, cooperation and dialogue, including on environmental protection.
this insecurity climate puts more pressure on already overstretched social services.
on the economic front, i welcome the ambitious project to electrify the region with solar energy.
energy and road infrastructure, support for pastoralism, the economic challenges in burkina faso and the sahel are immense.
if the european union's documents say that we must take care of agriculture, we cannot accept the council's proposal to reduce commitments and payments under the second heading, 'sustainable growth and natural resources'.
we have destroyed 75% of our railroad resources, 65% of our energy resources, 70% of our chemical, printing and other industries.
they volunteer, in addition to their own work, in their free time to protect people's lives, health, material values, basic services for the population, the natural environment, natural values.
i don't want to waste time reading more points of justification, because just now mr. jaki, like his predecessors, simply lied and told the untruth.
the promotion of sustainable development will also focus on activities carried out under the budget of the european union outside the union, in neighbouring countries.
increased allocations to the connecting europe facility (transport and energy) budget compared to the draft budget, and increased allocations to frontex and europol, as well as increased appropriations for erasmus, mean that we can support this budget.
i regret to say that once again, we will not have enough money in this budget to fight climate disaster - not change, but climate disaster.
in poland, the country i represent, 45,000 people die every year because of climate disaster.
the commission has already decided to grant a discharge to the member states for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000. many of my predecessors have called for confucius, some have called for a return to the principles of aristotelian logic, they have referred to christianity, they have mentioned the fight against anti-semitism, the fight for clean air, for the climate, and we should really be talking about a return to the feast of dionysus.
agree that the more than 171 billion we are proposing in next year's budget will be used to fund more actively environmental protection, including climate action, the fight against youth unemployment, the erasmus programme and support for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also research, including very important research to support cancer treatment.
that horizontal directive is systematically blocked by the council and this new mandate of the european commission and the european parliament can be a fresh start with the energy and commitment to unblock it as voted by the european parliament in 2010 in 2019 and as the finnish presidency has committed to the economic and social council's advisory committee.
so let’s work together for a sustainable europe and a sustainable future.
there are already too many of them in the climate debate.
we asked frans timmermans what the climate bill would look like, how he wanted to distribute the money for environmental protection.
i hope we can work together, really work together for the environment.
let's start with the fact that there's really no clear definition of climate threat.
i, of course, appreciate anyone who genuinely cares about the future of our environment, where the highest value is man.
but what is climate change?
this is a dangerous and irresponsible move, and the truth is that only the rich and privileged can afford to preach and take radical action to fight climate change, and the poor, the disadvantaged, are the ones who will really pay the price.
i've already heard about energy poverty.
i believe that energy security and affordability for these very poor people should be our priority.
president, commissioner, i think we can agree that climate change is a very important challenge.
but it seems to me quite obvious that we need to pursue that sustainable, low-carbon and circular society within the framework of innovation, progress and economic growth.
it is not enough to focus on the planet and the climate.
we often hear people say: it's system change, not climate change.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is leading the way in tackling climate change and has ambitious targets to set, such as a reduction of at least 50% of carbon dioxide emissions by 2030. but it is necessary to carry out an impact study so that we can make the promises come true and at the same time closely monitor the implementation of circular economy models.
but we need the rest of the global players in this effort to address climate change, not just states, but states and regions and regions and civil society.
we also need sustainable financing.
the european investment bank can become a climate bank, but it is necessary to provide opportunities for using gas as a transition fuel and continue to finance gas infrastructure.
it is also necessary to provide practical support to member states which set ambitious targets for the energy transition.
my country, greece, is going to reduce its carbon footprint and get it to zero by 2028. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
madam president, transition from fossil-based energy production requires a lot of resources.
nevertheless, it has to be done in the very interest of the country itself whose environment, airways and waterways are crumbling under the burden of coal.
it is, but only if there is a determination on the part of the polish authorities to change the energy mix from fossil fuels to renewables.
as the european union is set to become the world's leader in the sustainable development goals, how can it convince countries of origin to invest in the training and education of young people who will join the ranks of those seeking asylum?
first, children have the right to a childhood, to develop physically and mentally in a safe and healthy environment.
we must have a real industrial policy that enables our steel industry to be competitive both in terms of reducing co2 emissions and thus producing steel that is less and less polluting, but we must also take strong action to support domestic and foreign demand.
several negative factors are affecting the european steel industry and its global competitiveness: economic slowdown, but also increasing volumes of steel imports from third countries, rising costs of allowances, rising energy costs, lack of sufficient investment, especially environmental, volatile raw material prices.
the steel industry is an energy-intensive industry, heavily burdened by these regulations.
but regardless of the ultimate goal of protecting the environment and the negative effects, we should be able to manage this sector, and i urge you to just help.
mr president, the union must continue to deepen its commitment to sustainability and make it a tool to protect its industry and its workers.
but we must go further: we must banish from europe the dirty steel, which is not produced in accordance with the strict european environmental and social standards.
the union steel industry has made a huge technological, economic and personnel training effort to gain in this sustainability.
let us reward this effort with a new environmental and social tariff to protect our entire industry.
this is the result of the unwise, blind climate policy unfortunately pursued by the union.
the yellow vests in france, the farmers' protests in the netherlands, the germans who have been informed of the huge increases in electricity prices, the skyrocketing prices of garbage, do not encourage discussion about the need for even deeper analysis or change in their environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the cultural battle linked to the great objective of environmental sustainability is a correct battle and as such must be fought with intelligence and rigour, but above all with realism.
shouting the climate emergency in general may make sense to some.
we emulate our companies to ensure true sustainability.
climate change is a major challenge for the whole planet, not just the european union.
it has been said that we are merely borrowing the planet and the environment from future generations.
if we are found to be undermining the european economy, the world will not follow us, and we will not achieve the global climate goals.
we're in for a climate marathon, not a sprint.
the ambitious just transition fund must accompany our journey towards a low- and zero-carbon economy, supporting the most vulnerable regions, those for whom the necessary transformation will be the greatest social and economic challenge, and those regions which cannot generate the necessary resources or count on sufficient support at national level on their own.
mr president, as various members of this house and the presidency have done throughout this debate, i too would like to pay tribute to francisco gambús, who was a great european parliamentarian, a consensus-builder and a man fully committed to the development of the european union's environmental and climate policies.
i would also like to thank members for their continued commitment to ambitious global climate action, thereby providing additional political momentum ahead of another important cop.
i appreciate your commitment to maintaining the european union's role as a leader in the field of international climate action.
i am convinced that the european commission and the european council, under the leadership of the finnish presidency, will contribute to the conclusion of the negotiations on article 6 of the paris agreement in order to strengthen international cooperation to reduce emissions globally.
with our domestic experience and external policy instruments and dialogues, we are in a position to help our partners to advance their transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy.
the discussion reflects the priority that the fight against climate change represents for all of us.
i have participated in climate policy for quite a long time and acted both on behalf of finland and the eu in many cops.
i would like to say that in terms of climate policy, the european union is at its best.
with the great support from the european parliament, with the unanimity of member states and with the tireless work of the commission, we have been leading global climate action, and still we know that we need to do more – much more – and we need to do it faster – much faster.
this may be the last debate that the commissioner will have with the european parliament and the council on climate issues, so i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner arias cañete in front of the european parliament.
i’m not saying this just because you happen to be the climate commissioner.
no, i would like to thank you for your personal contribution, your good relations with the other key players – the big players in worldwide climate policy – and the personal commitment you have shown.
investing in energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions is important, but it is up to each and every person in the union to improve and deliver on our commitments.
if humans understand the nature of climate catastrophe, the effects will occur at a much faster rate.
climate change is a global challenge.
europe is taking a leading role in combating climate change and is committed to advancing progress towards a low-carbon economy to meet the goals of the paris agreement.
to this end, the eu has developed a long-term strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by finding the right policy mix between ambition and competitiveness of our companies.
energy is one of the basic elements of the european economy.
our aim is to ensure a stable and sustainable supply at a reasonable cost to businesses and households.
at the same time, the eu faces the serious challenges of energy import dependence and high energy costs, which are damaging the competitiveness of our industries in the global economy.
we believe that the future lies in the energy union.
the cop25 climate conference is the first event where the new european parliament can express its opinion on an important global issue.
all technological solutions are needed to simultaneously tackle the climate challenge, ensure stable consumer energy prices and avoid jeopardising the competitiveness of member states.
these include nuclear energy, which is essential for the countries of the central european region to produce electricity in a cheap, emission-free and safe manner.
so by demonizing nuclear power, you're making it impossible to take successful action on climate change, which is unacceptable to me.
the climate change we are facing, and the catastrophic effects of it, are beyond doubt.
as the european union, we need to have an ambitious climate policy that stops this change.
climate policy is not, however, separate from other policies - energy, economic or social.
when planning for climate action, we need to consider all aspects of the changes we are making and their consequences.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation by enikő győri, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion on behalf of the union of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and ukraine amending the trade preferences in the poultrymeat and poultrymeat preparations provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part (10720/2019 c9-0105/2019 2019/0132(nle)) (a9-0024/2019).
i am therefore pleased that both climate change and the multiannual financial plans will be discussed by the council under the new presidency.
but i would ask that we analyse what has worked and what has not, that we examine the potential of each country, including the reduction potential, and finally that the council find out how frans timmermans will write a new climate law in 100 days.
the consensus, where we managed to agree a record of almost half a billion euros of additional funds and even more relocations within the budget, to the agreed almost 169 billion euros to actively finance the protection of the environment, including climate, to which we allocated 21% of all funds, actively supported the just transformation of coal-dependent regions, the fight against youth unemployment, the erasmus+ student and young practitioner exchange programme, the development of the european digital market, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, including particularly important research supporting the treatment of people with cancer.
for me, as a social democrat, it is important that there is more money in this budget to fight climate change, that there is money to ensure that, for example, in a country like poland, 45,000 people do not die every year just because they breathe polluted air, that there is more money to fight unemployment among young people.
we want and support growth and competitiveness, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the eu's budget for the period 2007-2013 was eur 76.3 billion, of which eur 76.3 billion was for the energy component of the connecting europe facility (cef) and eur 76.2 billion for the energy component of the connecting europe facility (cef).
i'm a little concerned that my colleagues and my friends are confusing the situation in venice with climate change.
it's always accompanied by environmental protests.
this is why it is so important to develop an appropriate adaptation strategy to climate change and to provide the necessary infrastructure to protect against or mitigate the negative effects of such phenomena.
i would therefore like to recall that the european regional development fund, which is currently being negotiated with the council and the commission, provides, among other things, the possibility of financing measures to adapt our regions to climate change and to increase their resilience to natural disasters.
a report published in april this year by the european environment agency shows that all member states, including my own country, poland, have suffered the most damage from floods over the last 20 years, amounting to tens of billions of euros.
i would like to say that, once again, recent events in venice show us that climate change is real, is happening now and is not fake news.
so, at the same time, we need two approaches: a strategic approach called the paris agreement on climate change and, of course, prevention and preparedness.
otherwise, we will face a lot of problems because the new phenomena due to climate change is so complicated and complex.
investing in risk management is cost-effective; it prevents future losses and it contributes to sustainable development.
over the period 2014-2020, cohesion policy is investing almost eur 2 billion in climate change adaptation and risk prevention.
furthermore, under the urban agenda for the european union, the partnership on climate adaptation coordinated by the city of genoa is implementing ten actions to anticipate climate change and take appropriate measures to prevent or minimise the damage it can cause to urban areas.
the second point is that we are promoting initiatives to mitigate the impact of climate change on cultural heritage.
that is in particular the case with the support of the horizon 2020 programme with climate action, mitigating the impacts of climate change and natural hazards on cultural heritage.
the intersection between cultural heritage and climate change has also been under the spotlight during the european year of cultural heritage 2018 with the report ‘safeguarding cultural heritage from natural and man-made disasters’.
in the same vein, the european framework for action on cultural heritage includes a focus on protecting cultural heritage against natural disasters and climate change.
in 2021, a group of experts from eu member states will analyse and share innovative policy measures for heritage sites to mitigate the impact of climate change.
all this is occurring in a climate of rising anti-lgbti rhetoric in the run-up to the polish parliamentary election that took place last month.
young people are suffering, suicides are on the rise, and such unacceptable choices are a reflection of the general climate in the country, some of which are strongly pushing to suppress the right to free choice of partner and the right to abortion.
because i see a few poles and poles who feel attacked by this monstrous discriminatory action against the environment, who are clearly in a minority in poland.
the drift of events is alarming, the climate of hatred can be felt.
and it amazes me, ladies and gentlemen, that you can defend with such energy and enthusiasm a situation in which a group of citizens from your country is being humiliated and ridiculed.
it is true that citizens are concerned about the quality of their lives, which is why climate policy, environmental protection, but also health issues are so important.
alongside the europe that will go forward, which will be the first continent to be carbon-neutral by 2050, there is also the europe that depends on carbon and must not be left behind.
the thousands of families in the forty-one coal-dependent regions of western macedonia, in megalopolis, are waiting for you today to support them, to have the assurance that they will have many and sustainable jobs to which they can respond.
given that they fail to support you, that they may not support the college of commissioners today, and that they may not be happy with whatever you come forward with in the new green deal, saying that it is not ambitious enough, would you and mr timmermans consider changing the title to what it actually is, or will be: ‘an enhanced climate change strategy for europe’.
because all sides of the house here are committed to combating climate change: no one group has ownership of it, and i think calling it an ‘enhanced climate change strategy’ would be sensible.
so we have to tackle the climate emergency, along with integrated, smart and sustainable mobility.
and because i believe we need more ambitious targets to both tackle climate change and to tackle corruption and to tackle opacity.
you also highlighted the right priorities: climate change, digitisation, innovation, health, safety.
this is essential for both social acceptance, effective implementation and sustainability of reforms.
the eu welcomes the commitment of the african, caribbean and pacific region’s side to the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement on climate change, as well as adapting the partnership to the changing global context, new challenges and the obvious opportunities that we also have.
its objectives include poverty eradication, the rule of law, sustainable economic and social development of partner countries and the gradual integration of their economies into the world economy.
the global situation and new global challenges such as the migration crisis, terrorism and climate change have meant that the basic assumptions of the partnership need to be redefined.
i am therefore pleased that the achievement of the sustainable development goals is recognised as a key element of the future agreement and i agree that a mechanism needs to be established to ensure that the implementation of the agreement effectively contributes to the achievement and promotion of these goals.
it is therefore of great importance that we have a new european environmental action programme or equivalent, which looks at pristine forests and our biodiversity and climate.
mr. chairman, i agree that protecting the environment is a vital human rights battlefield.
at the same time, i would like to emphasise that in most cases, the ombudsmen are actually acting in the public interest, because they are trying to protect the environment, sustainable development and human rights in general.
mr president, for the last couple of years we have been witnessing increasing numbers of protests in defence of the natural environment in the eu.
environmental activists, like those in białowieża forest or camp for climate in poland, engage in great service to humanity, and their demands are compelling.
when the polish part of the białowieża forest, registered at the unesco world heritage, was the subject of massive cuts, environmental defenders were there to stop deforestation and alert public opinion.
the european community must not watch silently as environmental defenders are harassed, arrested and face charges for what they do.
i call for increasing efforts to protect and fulfil environmental defenders rights within the eu.
those who protect the environment are heroes, not criminals.
however, without the strong participation of our farmers, any prospect of mitigating climate change becomes unrealistic.
european farmers must be guided and given the appropriate incentives to make a further leap in the quality of environmental services that can benefit the whole community.
that is why, my dear frans, we need a more common and stronger agricultural policy, so that it can really be the key to climate change... (the president cut off the speaker)
the uachtaráin, comhghairdeachas leis an uachtarán, ursula, as ucht teacht chugainn inniu has deich lá in oifig leis in the dead of august in the motaí a chuir sí romhainn inniu.
her announcement of a just transition mechanism, far greater in scale than expected, is very welcome and will be welcomed especially in carbon-intensive areas, such as the peatlands in the irish midlands, coal areas in poland, etc.
mr president, the transition to a sustainable society can only be achieved if we take everyone with us.
it is important that we achieve a social and sustainable climate.
we do not want to create an even greater gap between rich and poor, and that is why i am glad that the issue of climate poverty is being explicitly taken into account.
that's why the labour party wants today's announcement to end in a deal, so that we are indeed the first continent to be climate neutral by 2050. french, as far as we're concerned, you're the right man at the right time in the right place to lead the fight.
mr president, the green deal presented today points the way to carbon neutrality by 2050. i think it is very good that it has taken very broad account of the different sectors of society and how we need to reform industry, the circular economy, food production, biodiversity, sustainable transport, chemical legislation and trade policy.
it is clear that such a major shift towards a carbon-neutral society means that our industry needs to be radically transformed.
however, many issues need to be considered very carefully, including the reform of the ets and carbon taxes, as it is not sensible to create overlapping systems.
we must constantly strive for a model that reduces emissions as efficiently and as market-oriented as possible.
yes, climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing europe, and the european green deal can be the right answer.
european cohesion policy, one of the eu's largest and most important investment instruments, is already focusing on climate action.
this also means that we cannot do it with less money, on the contrary, we need new, fresh money so that european funds can help in the fight against climate change and in the fight for a just transition.
look at what’s happening globally with our climate.
look at what’s happening to our biodiversity as we speak.
but we want to be ready with that impact assessment early in the summer next year, so that the european union is extremely well prepared, with a climate law for cop26 in glasgow, so that we can lead the way.
i had meetings with ministers from many countries saying: climate neutrality by 2050 is a good idea, we might do things the same way.
and if we begin by enshrining in law that by 2050 europe will be climate neutral, then we can take steps back until today and just chart the map that we need to get there, and then we will discuss the measures we will need to take, whether it’s on ets, whether it’s on emissions, whether it’s on taxation, whether it’s on all sorts of other measures to make our industry circular, to make sure that there are jobs in this new economy.
you know, the biggest risk here i see is that those who are most vulnerable in climate change see themselves also as most vulnerable in the answer to climate change, so that they start resisting the green deal because they feel that they are vulnerable.
we choose to go (to the moon in his case), we choose to go for climate neutrality in 2050 and do the other things, not because they are easy but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organise and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone and one which we intend to win.
saving energy helps to keep our planet habitable, but it also benefits the saver economically.
estonian buildings still waste more energy than buildings of the same type in finland.
there are many energy-saving opportunities in transport.
estonia has excellent developments in supercapacitors, packaging robots, fuel cells or hydrogen energy.
we are faced with the 'necessity of going beyond the framework of gradual improvement of efficiency and increasing the level of implementation of environmental policy'.
this is just part of a report published last wednesday by the european environment agency (eea) on the environmental performance assessment of europe.
the need to reduce emissions is undeniable.
so is the shift from coal to renewable energy.
they want to expand the carbon market, the business that some people do by buying and selling licenses to pollute.
they want to insist on neoliberal policies that, in addition to social injustice and economic inequality, create many of the ecological imbalances we face.
but if we want to do it with social justice and environmental sustainability, we need public control of the energy sector, which cannot be in the hands of the multinationals that control it.
a society based on unbridled consumerism - paint it however you like - is not sustainable.
the european green deal sets out to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, while maintaining economic competitiveness and social justice.
the diversity of member states, their different natural capacities and their different starting points on the path towards climate neutrality should therefore be duly respected.
because in the climate emergency, we don't have the luxury of favoring certain technologies and stigmatizing others.
for a successful transition, we need all low-carbon solutions without exception.
it is surely high time that we address climate change not just as an emergency but as a state of emergency.
this is the most important thing we've done in this european parliament term, this is what the young people who are on the climate strike want us to do.
the energy transition is a necessity, and it is a necessity to make it happen as soon as possible.
europe should be the source of the best legislation and technologies that together will make europe climate neutral by 2050. the opportunities of the ecological transition will benefit those who act first and fastest.
today we are talking about the european green deal, a path that must be followed by our citizens, regions, industry and energy.
the ambition to be carbon neutral by 2050 and the 2030 targets should make us pragmatic and give us a clear assessment of the challenges and solutions we need to take.
we need to maintain and develop our global competitiveness and increase our energy security by not excluding working solutions.
climate change and environmental protection, global technology competition and limited access to resources are clear answers to why we need the green deal, but we need to have a specific prior assessment of each goal and how it preserves our role as a global model for peaceful human development.
let us not forget that 50 million europeans are still energy poor and a number of sectors, including energy, are facing challenges in their digital transition.
i believe that the implementation of the european green deal is rightly the main political priority of the new commission, because we cannot ignore the negative effects of the degradation of our environment.
the european green deal is a new strategy to improve health, quality of life and the environment by transforming europe's economic model.
it also sets out an action plan for a circular economy, including the reduction of plastic waste.
however, tackling climate change is a global challenge and requires international and, above all, coordinated external action.
achieving the climate goals, including climate neutrality, presented by ursula von der leyen will only have a real impact on halting the progressive degradation of the environment if we all engage in the process of transformation.
the eu should become a leader in environmental action by promoting its objectives as a model for global agreements, focusing on greenhouse gas emissions reduction and biodiversity.
in march next year, the world's first draft climate law is set to be introduced, which will permanently incorporate climate neutrality targets by 2050 into various legislation.
we should all the more strengthen our efforts to increase policy coherence for development and climate.
this is about sustainable trade with other parts of the world, as well as building partnerships with developing countries to help them in their own transformation towards more environmentally efficient economies.
egd stresses the importance of making infrastructure climate-resilient and it recognises the challenges and opportunities that lay ahead for sectors, cities, communities and regions in this transition and of creating decent work and quality jobs.
the implementation of the un 2030 agenda (17 sdgs) and the paris agreement means to adapt and build resilience to climate change should ensure stability, recovery and a better balance between inclusive societies and prosperous economies.
the climate emergency imposes more action in order to achieve the paris agreement goals with a significant share of the investments for combating climate change should be realised by the private sector, further to the public funding.
a just and fair transition policy framework and an investment plan with a visible positive impact on employment will create the conditions to better align eu climate targets for 2030 and 2050. having people at heard of transition is the responsible way forward to a net-zero greenhouse gas economy.
otherwise, we will end up like the last round of negotiations on sustainable finance, the so-called green new deal taxonomy, where the negotiating chairs from the renew group, the rapporteur and part of the negotiating team, including the commission representative, hid for more than 4.5 hours in a 'private' trilogue and secretly agreed the terms of the agreement, thus disrupting the transparency of the process.
– the european green deal presented by commission to the meps in an extraordinary plenary session in brussels today lacks necessary measures to tackle some key factors behind the climate crisis.
factory farms produce staggering quantities of waste, pollute our land, air and water, and massively contribute to climate change.
limiting the over-consumption of meat and dairy products is also essential to ward off climate crisis.
without such change, the headline objective behind the new environmental law cannot be achieved.
employers achieving at least a 50% employment rate for disabled people and creating a work environment that is friendly to them could: be entitled to the same public support as guaranteed to smes by article 17 of the commission regulation of 17 june 2014, including, inter alia, investment aid, advisory services, participation in trade fairs, access to risk finance, start-up, recognition costs, research and development and innovation.
disabled people have the right to income support that ensures a decent life, to services that allow them to participate in the labour market and in social life, and to a work environment adapted to their needs.
it is imperative that we have a strong, comprehensive, enforceable disability strategy for the period beyond 2020, responding to new challenges in full compliance with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the sustainable development goals, and taking an even more comprehensive approach to the social inclusion of persons with disabilities.
several declarations of a climate emergency have been made since then.
from the point of view of a concrete reduction in greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere, the practical effect of the agreement was nil.
perhaps not by chance, one of these instruments, the carbon market, was at the centre of the discussion in madrid, and it triggered contradictions that made the agreement unworkable.
the monetisation of carbon, the buying and selling of the right to pollute the atmosphere, serves undeniable interests, not the interests of the people, nor genuine environmental objectives.
it also, of course, gives us an opportunity – and particularly the new commission which cannot be blamed obviously for the failure last week – now to use the next 12 months to put pressure on the big emitters, those who are fudging and not living up to their commitments, to so do in 12 months’ time, and also to use our trading strength, especially in relation to future trade agreements; that countries will not be entertained if their products are not sustainable according to the promises and commitments they gave in paris a few years ago.
this is a combination of doing the right things in europe and, at the same time, being extremely active on the international scene in climate diplomacy.
first of all, we need to prepare our climate law so that we can show the rest of the world that we put into law our commitment to be climate neutral by 2050. to do that, we should also indicate clearly what we would be doing intermittently because 2050 is a long way from now, but 2030 isn’t.
it’s almost tomorrow, it’s only 10 years, but we should be able to determine what we do in 2030. to determine that precisely, we will do an impact assessment, but we need to do it in time so that we are timely in preparing our climate law and preparing the clear targets for 2030 so we can take that to the international conference.
what are we going to do in our building environment?
what are we going to do on biodiversity, which is intimately linked to this?
i am mentioning all these subjects because, when you look at a conference like cop, on the surface it looks to be about emissions, but emissions are part of a much broader spectrum.
our economy, our system, our welfare, our well—being depends almost fully today on carbon and we are dependent on that.
so we need to get rid of that addiction and we need to make sure that we can create the same level – or better levels – of well—being, welfare and prosperity without having to depend on carbon.
that is a paradigm shift of unprecedented proportion – and it can only happen if we convince other parts of the world to follow suit because i do agree with those who say that if we only do this in europe, it’s only 9% of emissions and it will not have the effect we want on a global scale.
i experienced – and i hope colleagues had the same experience in madrid – a lot of interest in many parts of the world for the european green deal and also a lot of interest in the idea of setting a target of being climate neutral in 2050. the rest of the international community is waking up to the fact that this is a completely new way of looking at things.
it would give us the opportunity, also through a climate pact, to make sure that the people who are on the streets, the people who have a stake in this – whether it’s in industry or in agriculture or in academia or in trade unions – are part of the conversation and the decision—making.
that’s what the climate pact will be.
it is indeed disappointing that after years of hard work, and especially during the last two weeks, we could not agree on article 6, providing incentives to reduce emissions now, and especially in the future.
this enables us to enhance our capacity to mobilise and catalyse effective action for averting, minimising and addressing loss and damage associated with climate change targets.
it strengthens gender considerations and women’s participation in climate action and highlights the important role of women as agents of change.
to say that the un climate summit cop25 was unlucky is not enough.
there was no agreement on issues such as emissions trading, a common timeframe, common air quality metrics, reporting, ambition and climate targets.
all we've been able to do is establish that we have a climate crisis and we need to act.
the draft energy policy for poland to 2040 published in november assumes that coal will still account for between 56 and 60% of electricity generation in 2030. as orlando a. battista once said, "a mistake doesn't become a mistake until you refuse to correct it", so let's stop using nature as a limitless credit card.
in my city, air pollution can exceed the norm by 1,000 percent for several months of the year.
in poland, air pollution causes 44,000 premature deaths.
and that is why i would like to express my deep disappointment with the results of the madrid climate summit, or rather the lack of any results.
the lack of agreement means that all countries will have to re-examine their climate policies.
i hope that the european commission will continue to be ambitious and uncompromising in preparing the union's position for the next climate conference in glasgow, because i have no doubts about parliament.
madam president, bolsonaro announced that brazil will withdraw from the paris agreement on climate change and that it will continue to deforest the amazon.
a few weeks ago this parliament declared a climate emergency, and a few days ago the commission presented a pompous green new deal, but all of this is wet paper when we talk about trade at the service of multinationals.
declaring a climate emergency is incompatible with an agreement that favours intensive agro-industry, extractivism and deforestation, and that will also increase the persecution of human rights defenders in brazil, as the sakharov prize finalists have denounced today in this house.
from the farmers' point of view, however, it is rather difficult to talk today about the compatibility between the mercosur agreement and the ecological pact.
in terms of fighting climate change, it's complicated for us to be talking about sustainability of forests within the european union, to be allocating serious financial resources to this, while the mercosur countries are deliberately burning their forests to make way for beef or soy production.
we discuss the farm-to-fork strategy as part of climate change and impose high quality standards on food produced by farmers in the european union.
this commitment, thanks to the 'field to table' strategy, can be further strengthened and directed towards food quality, both in terms of the quality of the product, which is nutritious and healthy, and in terms of the production process, which is fair, sustainable and transparent.
the burning of the amazon is absurd in every way when we are trying to solve these climate challenges together.
he may not be interested in climate, but he's certainly interested in economics.
madam president, european negotiators at the madrid climate talks like to position themselves as leaders on climate change, but we are still ignoring the science and failing to tell the truth on climate.
the truth is that we need to achieve net zero carbon by 2030, and this means a radical transformation of the way we live across the european continent.
we are also hypocrites, as we focus attention narrowly on our direct carbon emissions whilst ignoring the co2 embodied in the goods we consume that have been imported.
a genuine green deal means a radical shift towards low—energy lifestyles in our continent and an enlightened trade policy embedded in the protection of our precious climate, which we must respect as a common good for all humanity.
instead of talking about tariffs, quotas, geographical indications, all the things that are related to trade policy, we are dealing here more and more with human rights, labour legislation, environmental standards.
a religion that puts money before human rights and climate protection, a religion that has led to the fact that today the amazon is burning and human rights are being violated in brazil.
and that's why we have to do everything we can to make sure that this agreement is written in the language of the modern world, of people who are taking to the streets to defend human rights, to defend the climate.
because how do we look at the people who, on the one hand, we give awards here for human rights in brazil or climate protection, and on the other hand, we sell these human rights and climate protection for more cars and more cell phones?
on the other hand, we are aware that the agreement could contribute to the deforestation of perhaps the world's most valuable forest resource, the reservoir of biodiversity, the amazon forest, which is being cut down, burned down, mostly deliberately cleared to make room for crops, including forage.
however, it can also lead to an increase in co2 emissions caused by transport.