this should be our main approach: to seek new technical solutions and methodologies which will make it possible to reduce the use of plant protection products in a sustainable way and, where their use is necessary, to do so in the most efficient and targeted way, always with the principle of precaution and the protection of human, animal and environmental health as undisputed priorities.
it is public health and the preservation of the environment that must prevail over the interests of industry, its profit expectations and not the other way around.
it will bring environmental benefits, because we are talking about a fleet of rental vehicles that is on average four to six years old, is more recent than the fleet of the companies themselves, and therefore brings greater safety to the roads.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2019 began with a climate of heightened tension between mainland china and the island of taipei.
we also believe that, as is obvious, the union's policies and objectives in the area of climate must be absolutely guaranteed, also in the area of what is the strategy we want for sustainability, but also for growth and inclusion.
ladies and gentlemen, this is the opportunity you have been waiting for for some of the projects that are so essential to combating climate change and decarbonising the economy, to blue growth and sustainable development, and to protecting biodiversity in the oceans and on land.
i hope for a vote, as happened in the committee on budgets and the economic affairs committee, a vote with an overwhelming majority of those in favour of investment, job creation, strengthening the competitiveness of the european union and respecting the commitments we have made, particularly in the fight against climate change.
it should be noted at the outset that this fund is ambitious in providing for its use to improve equitable and timely access to quality, sustainable and affordable health services involving primary care, long-term care, more citizen-centred care whether provided by outpatient units, centres of excellence or by informal or family carers.
i have tabled, together with my group, a number of amendments to the text, and i would like to stress three points: the process for selecting external experts shall take into account gender equality in line with the un sustainable development goals, in particular paragraph 5 thereof; the fiscalis programme shall seek to exploit synergies with other union measures in areas related to the customs programme, the european anti-fraud programme, the single market programme and the structural reform support programmes for better cost-effectiveness; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one, but it is not enough to make it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal.
this is a unique opportunity for the union to acquire knowledge in the field of decommissioning of nuclear installations and radioactive waste management, which justifies the separate investment provided for in the document and in particular also because it is an exception to the polluter pays principle for radioactive waste.
because this investment in nuclear energy was imposed on the territory of lithuania by the then soviet union, intended to serve a much larger region, and disproportionate to the size and financial capacity of lithuania.
the closure of the nuclear power plant has led to the need to increase energy imports to serve the region and therefore lithuania has been suffering from very high energy costs for years.
a future european institutional framework cannot but inevitably include the european pillars of political, economic, social and environmental rights.
there is no room for pause in freedom and democracy or in the fight against climate change.
mr president, relations between europe and the united states are being blown up every day by the chaotic trump presidency, which is pushing for brexit, has withdrawn from the climate agreement, the iran agreement, has opened a trade war, is offending european leaders, while showing itself to be a servant of putin.
mr president, commissioner, on 5 november 2015, the rupture of the mariana dam created a river of mud that, running through 633 kilometres of waterways, reached 39 municipalities, killed 19 people and caused the biggest environmental disaster in brazil.
three years later, the new dam, the one at the mina do feijão, in the brumadinho complex, owned by the same company that owns mariana, vale, collapsed again and the avalanche of mud and mining waste has already caused 75 deaths, 279 disappearances and left several indigenous tribes without their crops and drinking water.
climate change – thank you for supporting my speech and all the issues i raised with regard to climate change.
we are especially worried about black carbon, and this is a quite concrete issue where we can negotiate also with russia and the united states, which are not very keen to support climate change actions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
first, because it ensured that one of the most ambitious objectives of the cfp, namely to achieve the maximum sustainable yield by 2020, was maintained.
to ensure this, they need to provide the tools to ensure a practical and sustainable management framework for our mixed demersal fisheries.
this is the way to implement the regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp), which is an important feature of the latest cfp reform in 2013. it provides a tool to facilitate reaching the maximum sustainable yield (msy) objective by defining ranges of fishing opportunities in line with msy.
the agreement should promote the effective and sustainable development of the offshore fisheries sector and related industries and activities by increasing the value added that is left in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources.
mr president, i would like to thank the various speakers and, in conclusion, to stress one of the points in the resolution we will be voting on tomorrow: the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and côte d'ivoire, in its implementation and in any revisions and/or renewals, must take into account and be in line with the relevant strategic plans, while fully respecting the sovereignty of côte d'ivoire, aiming at the development of the coastal-marine fisheries sector, in particular by strengthening controls and surveillance of the côte d'ivoire exclusive economic zone and measures to combat illegal, undeclared and unregulated fishing, supporting the construction and/or rehabilitation of fish markets, landing piers and ports, in particular but not only in the port of abidjan, improving working conditions in the sector, including working conditions for women, in particular in the fisheries sector, enabling women to work in the fishing industry, and being more closely linked to the development of a more effective system of scientific and technical support, enhancing the sustainability of the global fisheries system, supporting the conservation of fishery resources, and enhancing the capacity of the marine artisanal fisheries sector.
finally, we urge the european commission to provide information on the benefits that the implementation of the protocol will bring to local economies in terms of employment, infrastructure, improvement of social conditions, as well as on catches and the state of conservation of resources, so that we can better assess the impact of the agreement on the marine ecosystem and fishing communities.
to combat this with fewer financial resources and the necessary ethical guarantees in the use of data, it is necessary to adopt a different approach, focusing on the positive transformation of industrial and social organisation models, measuring the impacts of this transformation and exploiting the dynamics of change to increase the competitiveness and intelligence of production systems, combating inequalities and making public service systems such as health, safety or education and training systems sustainable.
it is obvious that we can use pesticides in a more sustainable way, and it is also obvious that farmers have the greatest interest in maintaining a clean and sustainable environment.
climate change is triggering the emergence of new pests that we must urgently combat and thus protect our crops and production.
mr president, the unsustainable use of pesticides is causing serious environmental, public health and food safety problems.
the same policies that have been and continue to be devastating for small and mediumsized farms and family farms are of crucial importance for the sustainable occupation of the territory and the food sovereignty of the states.
there is no doubt that new products and processes need to be developed which involve fewer risks and less impact on health and the environment.
however, we cannot let it all go to waste in the production game.
on the one hand, we are restricting or reducing biodiversity and agro-diversity through the use of pesticides of high toxicity and with an unknown impact on human health.
there is a barrier to the full market uptake of sustainable alternatives with a consequent reduced attractiveness for farmers who obviously prefer the most cost-effective options in the short term.
the reuse of properly treated reclaimed water for irrigation purposes must be conditional on respect for the environment and human and animal health.
it is therefore clear that reusing water cannot lead to eutrophication of soils and ground and surface water, which would be disruptive to ecosystems and contribute to the reduction of biodiversity.
that is why i believe it is time to recognise that the european civil protection mechanism, by promoting a stronger collective european response, plays a crucial role in shaping a common strategy capable of addressing rapidly the climate and humanitarian challenges we face today.
and the trade agreement, because it facilitates trade relations with a relevant partner in southeast asia, because it promotes sustainable development and because it contains clear commitments from singapore to ratify the conventions of the international labour organization.
it also covers key areas such as health, the environment, climate change, energy... (the president cut the speaker off)
author.
assessments, pricing and reimbursement can be set as a touchstone for the sustainability of health systems.
this will make hta involved from mere farmer ecological data on to a more realistic evaluation.
so was it not the european union that forced portugal, especially during the troika, to sell all its strategic companies in the energy, transport and financial sectors?
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in this communication, we outlined the eu clean air policy approach, provided examples of measures to reduce air pollution in the transport, power and heat energy industry, and also in the agricultural sectors.
its findings will be used to inform further reflections on whether these directives continue to provide the appropriate legislative framework to ensure protection from adverse impacts on, and risks to, human health and the environment.
in addition, further indirect contributions beneficial to clean air come from investments in the low-carbon economy and environmental protection and resource efficiency, or in the transport network infrastructure.
more specifically, to support regions and cities, in the urban agenda for the eu there have been innovative actions to further facilitate addressing air pollution in urban areas where transport is one of the main sources of air pollution.
looking ahead for the period post-2020, the commission has proposed under the cohesion policy a particular emphasis on a green low carbon europe including a specific result indicator on population benefiting from measures for air quality.
on question number four, the agricultural sector is an important source of ammonia emissions, which in turn are a key precursor to particulate matter.
measures to mitigate these emissions include agronomic measures, livestock measures, or energy production measures.
according to the commission's proposal for a new common agricultural policy after 2020, one of the impact indicators to assess the performance of this policy explicitly refers to the ammonia emissions from agriculture.
to be more specific, a result indicator will measure the share of agricultural land under commitments to reduce ammonia emissions.
the world health organisation keeps the scientific basis under regular review, including ultra-fine particles and black carbon.
also, the european respiratory society has warned that even short-term increases in air pollution have been associated with respiratory symptoms and temporary decreases in lung function.
in projections by the oecd, air pollution will be the biggest environmental cause of premature deaths by 2050. millions of europeans live in areas where simply breathing the air around them is damaging to their health, and these effects should not be underestimated.
air pollution can reduced lifespans and cause serious heart and lung disease.
the pollutants of most concern for human health across europe are airborne particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide and ground-level ozone.
member states should reinforce their efforts to tackle sources of pollution from all sectors.
states also need to improve cooperation on cross—border pollution, make air quality an integral part of their policies, and ensure that the correct level of governance – national, regional or municipal – is equipped to tackle sources of pollution.
in the past 10 years, lisbon has shown a significant decrease in emissions from most pollutants, resulting in a significant improvement in air quality.
it is not sustainable to keep maduro and to keep the terrible suffering imposed on the venezuelan people.
i believe that in the face of the sino-american competition for world hegemony, it is vital to step up the process of continental integration centred on the european union in order to increase europe's global competitiveness in economic, educational and environmental terms.
we need concerted action for more sustainable and inclusive growth, we need to overcome the public and private investment gap and we need to ensure that member states with budgetary surpluses do more to grow the european economy by increasing wages and investment.
responsibility for the management of public accounts is of course still necessary, but it must be compatible with investment in job creation, the fight against inequalities, the promotion of convergence, social inclusion, the energy transition, the fight against climate change and the objectives of sustainable development.
you know that the reform of social security proposed in nicaragua was intended to ensure its sustainability and at the same time to avoid the implementation of the neoliberal recommendations proposed by the imf.
when the committee on foreign affairs visited iran in february of last year, we were confronted afterwards with the death in custody of environmental activist kavous seyed-emami.
mr president, i voted in favour of the joint resolution on climate change because i do not want us to reach a point of no return, a point where successive environmental catastrophes will endanger our existence on planet earth.
the political class must show unity on the issue and cannot dismiss the signs that are all too obvious, such as the worsening of extreme weather events and global warming.
with scientific and technological advances, we already have the ability to produce clean energy and use renewable sources.
we must finance the transition to a green and sustainable economy in a more definitive and ambitious way, without getting lost in cosmetic measures and false improvements brought about by the greed of some sectors of the business.
protecting the environment is protecting the constructive future of humanity.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
however, there have been exceptions: the energy union and the digital union are good examples and that is why we are here today debating this legislation.
the choices and how they ensure the union's leadership in the energy transition, industrial competitiveness and people's access to clean, healthy and affordable electricity need to be taken into account.
we also need to ensure the principle of energy efficiency first, ensure a just transition, strengthen transparency and the capacity for market regulation and give priority to production from renewable sources to actually reduce emissions.
madam president, the regulation on tyre labelling is an area where rigor and transparency are essential, given that it is a consumer product that separates safety from risk, life from death, sustainable production from unregulated exploitation of resources, environmental quality from worsening pollution and waste accumulation.
the work of the rapporteurs - which i welcome - will enable us to adopt useful regulations that improve energy regulation, sustainability, safety, defending consumers, without jeopardising the competitiveness of european industry.
reducing the climate change impact of the transport sector is a key objective of our energy and mobility policies.
i encourage the european parliament to fully support the ambition of the commission proposal to ensure that tyre users can make the best choice from an energy efficiency and safety perspective, and can gain financially.
madam president, commissioner, at the end of last week the spanish energy companies, with the government's approval, decided to extend the life of the two reactors at the almaraz nuclear power station for the second time until 2028. if the 30-year useful life of this unit ended in 2011, the question is, commissioner, why extend its operation for another 17 years?
for those who do not know, this plant is located in a seismic hazard zone 100 km from the portuguese border, on the tagus river, which passes through lisbon 320 km later, encountering protected landscapes and biodiversity sanctuaries listed in the natura 2000 network.
the question i ask, commissioner, is what is the use of an environmental impact assessment directorate if there are no crossborder risk assessments and why a protocol of cooperation in nuclear emergency between portugal and spain if, in these matters, spain treats its neighbour as if it did not exist?
it was only right that the guarantee for these regions from erdf and cohesion fund support should be included in the investments in waste facilities and management and environmental protection.
mr president, the regulation we are considering ensures a sustainable energy transition in the sector of new passenger cars and new light commercial vehicles.
it introduces real-world co2 emissions testing as a condition of vehicle type approval, which can help us to avoid fraudulent practices such as those identified by the parliamentary committee of inquiry into automobile emissions of which i was a member.
we have to put this proposal for sustainable innovation into practice, we have to have the capacity to monitor, we have to have the capacity to train workers and develop territories sustainably to be one step ahead in modernity.
such events, as reality shows, do not arise by chance, they are part of a wider strategy to dominate the energy materials that abound in those territories.
we also know that fighting against climate change and promoting sustainable development goals will become an absolute priority for the next agenda.
in these two papers we understand both the importance of plastic and the problem that arises when these products do not have a proper end and end up floating in the ocean, with a negative impact on the biosphere, and i remind you that 80% of the ocean's waste originates on land.
i would like to recall the european citizens' initiative right2water, of which i was the shadow rapporteur, which reminded us that we have until 2030 to meet sustainable development goal 6 which concerns universal and equitable access to water.
and the truth is that we are not only interested in debating the quality of the water we consume in europe, we are not only interested in that, but also in discussing the ways in which we can avoid the shortage of drinking water, aggravated by the effect of climate change, as well as access to water as a fundamental human right.
we are also very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new programme for the protection of the environment.
harmonising sustainable investment means bringing more transparency and competitiveness to investment within the union and not being subject to twenty-eight different systems which only contribute to market fragmentation and asymmetries in europe.
fighting climate change is going to cost us money.
the fact that we have succeeded in moving the economic cloud to water the green areas means that we have fully adopted the ecological guidelines on which europe is betting.
if we are geared towards decarbonising the economy, we can only consider sustainable economic activities those that do not contribute to carbon dependence effects, nor produce non-renewable or environmentally harmful waste.
we want to create an environment favourable to green investment and therefore information to investors has to be transparent in all businesses so that they can exercise their preferences with all the awareness and commitment that this entails and it is important that they know when they are investing in brown businesses so that they can be held accountable.
mr president, the creation of the integrated gas market is a cornerstone of the european union's project to create an energy union and this report takes this important process a step further by removing barriers to cross-border trade and applying the same rules to trade outside the european union as those applied internally.
energy independence in a fluid market is essential for competitiveness and security in the european union, but independence must create the conditions for interdependence and fair trade, fostering peace and good relations between peoples.
it should be borne in mind that the emff aims to support the achievement of the environmental, but also economic, social and employment objectives of the common fisheries policy, to promote the implementation of the union's maritime policy and to support the union's international commitments in the field of ocean governance.
funds like the emff are important for the blue economy, but they have to be channelled to those who need them and support the sustainable development of the environment, society, the economy and communities.
sustainability is a whole, not just a part, and one of the pillars is the fishermen, the most important.
yes, i am, mr joão ferreira, i am fully aware of these difficulties and that support must be found and maintained within the framework of the european fisheries and maritime fund to support the constraints that are currently being experienced in some fisheries sectors and that are not only linked, in fact, to the impacts of the fisheries themselves, but also to the issues of climate change, stock migration and recruitment problems that are affecting fishing communities, and they must be seen in this context.
it is therefore also worth highlighting the possibility of renewing the craft fleets, which will allow the sector to be modernised and will allow us to achieve what we want: to make it a profitable sector, but also to make it more sustainable, safer and more attractive to young people.
but it is not enough to demand european policies, to demand better and fairer financing, we must also not waste it.
we believe that the sustainability of fisheries must combine the protection of species with the social protection of the operators in the sector, and that it is not acceptable for fishermen to bring home only 5 euros after a day's work.
i would like to emphasize that small-scale and sustainable fishing cannot be the fishery of the poor, but on the contrary, it must be valued by consumers and properly remunerated.
that is why the investment proposal we are presenting is all the more important for the outermost regions, which are characterised by the environmental sustainability of their fisheries, which, together with the problems of remoteness, difficult climate and difficult access to the markets identified in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, justifies, as provided for in article 349 thereof, specific measures for these regions, which in this case means the re-establishment of the fisheries posei, which i have insistently advocated during this legislature and whose loss of autonomy proved catastrophic at the beginning of this multiannual financial framework.
i call on you to vote in favour tomorrow and thus contribute to this further step towards making the sustainability of demersal fisheries resources and fishing communities in this mediterranean region a success.
some, in the pre-election climate, will give in to the temptation to exploit this issue by inventing problems and fears.
the european union is solidary internally and externally, but it is a solidarity which must always be strengthened, especially because climate change and its effects will be increasingly severe.
climate change is a reality that doesn't measure gdp, geography, level of development, wealth or attitude.
the european union, which has not only activated its civil protection mechanism, albeit belatedly, but has also made available more than 15 million euros in humanitarian aid to respond to this catastrophe, must now also have the political will to make this solidarity compatible with the implementation of the much-talked-about marshall plan for africa, which also focuses on an ecological transition model that makes it possible to make the violence of these extreme natural phenomena the exception, not the rule.
we will not help the people of mozambique if we turn a blind eye to the corruption and impunity that rule this brotherly country and hinder the recovery of its sacrificed people from climate disasters such as cyclone idai and other disasters.
climate change is here.
as much as we would wish otherwise, the scale of climate—related hazard is only set to increase in the future.
i have spoken a lot about the social sciences and the humanities, about the rights of fellows who do research in european projects, about more equal access to funding, and i have supported these proposals with a proposal to have a target for research to combat climate change.
the precautionary principle is to be maintained, firstly because it is based on scientific reservations and a serious assessment of the risk/benefit and cost/benefit ratios, and secondly because it is also a source of impetus for research and development to find solutions that are proven safe and do not harm health or the environment.
fifthly, the contribution of projects to combating climate change.
this is not the path the european union wants to take, as became clear two weeks ago with the approval of a pan-european pension fund paving the way for the privatisation of social security, or when it encourages the idea of raising the retirement age to ensure the sustainability of social security systems, as exemplified by a study recently commissioned by employers in portugal.
the recent progress achieved in portugal, with our proposal and contribution, albeit insufficient, means that it is in the creation of jobs and the appreciation of wages that the sustainability of social security systems is guaranteed, to which must be added the increase and appreciation of labour and social rights.
we will also increase export capacity to third countries with products manufactured not only in accordance with our best practices but also with respect for european environmental values and social rights.
to achieve this, it is crucial to defend a sustainable pharmaceutical ecosystem that stimulates this european industry to be an engine of economic growth.
mr president, i would like to thank mr bas eickhout and all the colleagues who were involved in the conclusion of this dossier, who wanted to impose ambitious targets for the reduction of co2 emissions from heavy duty vehicles, and i would also like to extend this thanks to all those who have worked throughout this mandate, in different dossiers, to coordinate the contribution of all sectors to the achievement of the paris targets, namely mrs dali who is leaving now.
we cannot continue to deny that climate change exists.
there is one thing we are doing right, ladies and gentlemen, the warnings and messages of environmental scientists have a huge social echo and reach the younger layers who are demonstrating loudly, but there is another thing we are insisting on doing wrong, we are still protecting vested interests which prevent the decarbonisation of the economy and the development of green technologies.
the european citizens do need security, but they need security at work, employment with rights, security in public services, security in a sustainable future.
in this investeu, in this investment plan for the european union, we have four main windows, we have one window for sustainable infrastructure, another window for small and mediumsized enterprises, for research and innovation and finally also for the social objective.
i was the mrv rapporteur on co2 emissions from maritime transport and therefore i understand that this regulation was the next step to establish the harmonised rules for the provision of information required for port calls, ensuring the transmission of information between declarants, competent authorities and port service providers through the single national platform.
these national platforms for the maritime sector should be maintained and serve as the basis for the european single platform environment for this sector that is technologically neutral, interoperable and allows for the technological updating and formal requirements for port access.
the matter is made all the more serious when we consider that these substances circulate in our midst and are responsible for cases of infertility, obesity and cancer, both in humans and other species in our ecosystem.
i would also like to make a final point about my total dedication in this mandate to health, the environment and human rights, which all seem to converge in this last plenary speech.
– mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members because they clearly have proved that they are back with new energy, high ambitions and great ideas.
we have been working hard over the past five years to make sure not only that the eu will remain the leader in tackling climate change, but also that we are laying the ground for the new, modern, sustainable economy, and therefore one of the big responsibilities for all of us in this new period will be to make sure that we have correct and proper implementation of all the laws that have already been agreed.
i very much echo the calls made by many of the honourable members who say this new economy must ensure that nobody is left behind, that energy poverty is properly tackled, that everyone will see their future in the new economy – including those who are living in coal regions today or in energy-intensive cities and towns built many decades ago – and that we know how to help, we know how to provide them with new hope and new economic plans for the future.
we need to make sure that we do not waste time, that we do not waste weeks, months and days ensuring that all our programmes and ideas are properly financially supported.
be it in clean mobility, artificial intelligence, super-computing or robotics, we need to make sure that we can be a strong competitor vis-à-vis the competition from the usa or china – and i’m sure we can do that in our european way, respectful of our citizens, respectful of the environment and respectful of international treaties, international rules and obligations.
in that regard, i would also like to reassure mr shirdewan that all our new trade agreements, which will be discussed with all of you, respect high trade, environmental and labour standards, and that this is our european response to the creeping trade protectionism which we see around the world.
however, this should not distract us from what is most important to the citizens, which is the concrete policies that must be put in place to make the european union more just, cohesive and sustainable.
mr president, i would like to say that the commitment, oral and written, by ms von der leyen, to more competitiveness, to a sustainable europe with more solidarity shows that she saw correctly our programme, but, ms von der leyen, you also saw the expectations of europeans.
i support the priorities set out in the resolution on combating climate change, completing economic and monetary union, adapting to the digital society and economy, eradicating violence against women and reforming the union's institutions.
mrs ursula von der leyen represents the consensus that has been shaping the course of the european union for decades, namely: (ii) the consensus on the levelling down of living and working conditions in europe; on precarious employment, instability in the lives of millions of workers, unemployment and underemployment; on inequalities between men and women; (iii) the consensus of big capital and the great powers, which sacrifices the weakest productive systems, the environment and social rights for the profit of multinationals; (iv) the consensus on privatization, the attack on public services, threats and sanctions against sovereign states; (v) the consensus of militarism and war.
but these consensus can count on the opposition of all those who are fighting for another europe: the europe of progress, social justice, environmental protection, democracy, solidarity, peace and cooperation; a europe which will be fulfilled through the struggle of the workers and the peoples.
let's focus on sustainable transport, on electric mobility, on improving the energy efficiency of buildings or on developing district heating in member states with low winter temperatures.
is it for environmental reasons that parliament is moving from brussels to strasbourg for three days?
we use slogans, programs, restrictive targets, and yet we contribute to the air pollution, this time in strasbourg.
mr president, in her speech yesterday, ursula von der leyen committed herself to a climate neutral europe by 2050. this also means that low-emission zones will have to expand into european cities at a faster pace.
the systemic solution should be to tighten eu air legislation and ensure that car manufacturers bring their vehicles into compliance with existing emissions regulations.
it is clear that we will not have really healthy air in our cities or at least hope for stabilizing the climate if there are a large number of cars running on fossil fuels on the roads of cities.
mr president, commissioner, the air quality directive is fundamental to the lives of citizens and to the preservation of biodiversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 9 out of 10 people live in environments with polluted air and 4 million die every year as a result of air pollution.
and more and more europeans live in cities, where pollution is higher.
pollution is making us sick: cancer, cognitive problems, dementia and diabetes are just part of the problem.
and the data shows that even in rural areas, pollution limits are being exceeded.
we condemn the attacks on the freedom of association and expression of civil society, including the law that leads to the classification of some ngos as foreign agents, and we strongly condemn the persecution of environmental activists.
so we say yes to environmental conservation and ecological balance, we say yes to greater involvement of the municipalities, of the regions, we say yes to sustainable management of biomass, but we also say yes to the economic value of the forest.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of chemical agents is a very good one.
it is true that it is not the job of the president of the ecb to liberate the euro area from a growth strategy of mediocrity addicted to instruments, to the permanent use of extraordinary monetary policy instruments, but we know that we have a climate crisis today and we will have an economic crisis in the near future, and we also know from her background that christine lagarde will be a force of opposition to the fiscal and public service policies that we will need to have to respond to them.
the european union must not - cannot - ignore its obligations as a global leader and must use the instruments at its disposal in dialogue with governments to defend the forest, the environment, combat climate change and protect human rights.
we know that this is a difficult decision, but it is necessary to stop the farming lobby and to finally and definitively prioritize the protection of the biodiversity of the amazon and indigenous communities.
traditional policies need to be modernised so that they are able to support a sustainable and carbon-neutral economic model.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
we would like it to be bolder, but above all we are concerned that it is not entirely directed towards public investment, towards investment in infrastructure for the energy transition, in transport systems, in energy efficiency, and that it is abandoned to market mechanisms, which have already proven to be unable to cope with the climate emergency we have to respond to.
we support the principle of mainstreaming climate issues into all policies and a just transition to a carbon-neutral economy, based on the highest standards of social justice, leaving no one behind.
meanwhile, in the next hundred days, the commission will present the climate law.
it is a priority of the european union to finance a just transition to a carbon-neutral economy based on the highest standards of social justice.
today, our businesses, our cities and our people ask us and want us to act to stop global warming, to stop deforestation, to stop climate change.
climate change will not slow down because of single actions, because climate change knows no borders.
from china to the us, australia and many places in the world, climate change affects us all.
fossil fuels belong to the past and together we must look into the future of energy.
either we act together or climate will change us all.
climate change requires an effective response by the commission that accompanies the recognised urgency of the situation.
on the basis of the available scientific data, in line with the climate change already observed, such as sea level rise and increased forest fires, among other calamities, decisive action is needed to allow for a clear decarbonisation.
the commission will have to show commitment on this issue and will have to allocate resources to environmental issues in order to achieve the targets set for 2030 and 2050. the member states must also commit themselves to complying with the legislation produced by the european union, to strengthening the adoption of more ambitious plans in line with the 2050 objectives and to implementing the plans approved by each state.
but to achieve the 2030 sustainable development goals, we need to accelerate the pace.
we need mechanisms from the european union to support member states in creating and implementing health-promoting policies, with increased investment in all areas of health, from socioeconomic and environmental determinants to health care delivery services.
but in the case of the emergency that is everyone's fight against climate change, i think, with a few honorable exceptions, it is much more what unites us than what divides us.
i have no great doubt, therefore, that at the end of the day the european parliament will declare, by a clear vote, the climate emergency: reduce emissions by 55% in general, reduce emissions from the maritime and aviation sectors, create a fund to mitigate the economic and social effects of these changes.
it's a warning we've added to many others on the eve of the un climate conference.
we're going to declare a climate emergency.
this union is about sharing a common dream of peace and sustainable development for all and, in this case, solidarity pays back through the reinforcement of the single market.
i am going to start with the climate issue, with the issue of research and innovation, but also with the young people.
the consequences of climate change are hurricanes, floods, droughts, avalanches, but most of all, human tragedies.
without tackling climate change, without realizing that it's not just europe that has to pay the price, but the whole world, led by big corporations, is obliged to fight global warming and emissions, without thinking about the responsibility for future generations, we will be dealing with more and more, bearing more and more costs and mourning more and more victims.
if there is one area where solidarity in the european union and the principle of cohesion should have a visible expression, it is in the protection of people, the economy and the environment in the face of disasters.
co2 emissions don't wait for our hesitations, as we've seen with the fires and floods across europe.
madam president, this debate is timely and we are discussing with the commission and the council this post-cotonou partnership agreement and the future of the path we started together with our african, caribbean and pacific partners in lomé in 1975. it is never too late to recall that this agreement has three fundamental objectives: to reduce poverty and eventually eradicate it, to promote sustainable development and to contribute to the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
this is the first idea i would like to leave behind in a current situation where concrete measures are needed to promote and enforce human rights or to defend democracy, economic growth and investment, to combat climate change, to promote peace and security, and to act in terms of mobility and migration.
the primary objective of eradicating poverty in line with the sustainable development goals should remain our highest purpose.
secondly, to defend multilateralism as the only truly effective way to lasting peace, economic prosperity and sustainable development.
we will only be able to implement the ambitious sustainable development goals on a truly effective scale if we do so through the various existing world forums, and with this partnership of ours this can act as a lever for common positions.
madam president, vice-president frans timmermans, the european green deal must have a huge ambition: to become the pact for the strategy of fair and inclusive sustainable growth for europe in the next decade.
if we are really committed to combating climate change, the union budget must grow.
the ecological pact must increasingly be a development pact.
european farmers have this dual responsibility of ensuring food security and helping to combat climate change.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in the hearings with the members who will now be appointed, we wanted to know if they agree with the importance of having a policy mix in the european union, namely with much more significant budgetary instruments than those that currently exist, we wanted to know what they think about the ecb looking more at the issue of employment and inequalities, even if that means more latitude in the targets for inflation, and we wanted to know what ideas they have for the ecb to be able to have a role in responding to climate change or at least not mess up.
we need to act on the climate and on the economy, but also on social cohesion.
it's about working closely with the beekeepers, and it's about -- and we haven't talked much about this -- that the biggest problem for bees right now is not pesticides, and it's not biodiversity loss, but it's parasites that are attacking the bees themselves, so varroa, beetles and things like that, and unfortunately we're getting more and more of these parasites, and we need to work in research and development here as well, so that we can develop effective countermeasures.
furthermore, the commission will continue supporting member states to ensure the sustainable use of pesticides, and the commission will be presenting the findings of the refit evaluation of the pesticides regulation and the second reports on the implementation of the sustainable use directive early in 2020. and finally, i agree that having an ambitious strategy plan on the cap is very important in order to deliver on our own ambitions.
– mr president, honourable members, echoing what you and the commission have said, let me also conclude by recalling the importance of pollinators for biodiversity, for our food systems and for our well-being.
we need to have a more holistic and coordinated approach on this issue, and there is broad support in the council to increase the environmental ambition in the cap – the common agricultural policy – reform, of course taking into account the situation of our farmers.
on the one hand, we have a moral responsibility to pass on to future generations the environment we inherited from our ancestors, at least in the same quality.
in these conclusions, the council emphasises the importance of good animal welfare as an integral part of sustainable animal production, and notes the improvements already achieved in the eu.
dear friends, we are all aware that various sensitive issues such as the transport time or the sustainability of trade in live animals may need to be discussed in this context.
- (it) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is very pleased to be able to say that the european parliament has taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
– we have to start delivering on the goal of carbon neutrality.
we can find those resources, and at the same time avoid importing carbon and avoid endangering responsible european investment.
we are serious about our joint commitment, under the european consensus on development and sustainable development goals, to work with partners to eliminate all forms of sexual and gender-based violence and discrimination, including harmful practices such as, in particular, female genital mutilation.
the joint eu-un spotlight initiative to eliminate violence against women and girls is an exemplary case in point, an unprecedented global effort to invest in gender equality and women’s empowerment as a precondition and driver for the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
extensive financial pledges were made from both public and private sources, as well as political commitments, notably a reaffirmation of efforts to achieve zero female genital mutilation by 2030, in line with our commitment under the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
i believe we can continue to work on the five priority areas outlined in the 2013 commission communication on ending female genital mutilation, that is: improving knowledge and data, supporting sustainable social change, protection, prosecution and combating fgm worldwide.
we need to work with our international partners across the world to support the implementation of the un sustainable development goals, which cover violence against women.