madam president, energy security is a strategic area for the union and nuclear fusion is one of the future solutions to achieve this need.
as rapporteur, i supported this project, convinced that the switch to fusion electricity will profoundly change the future of energy globally.
eur 6 billion will be the euratom contribution for the european union to remain in this project for the period 2021-2027. these six billion are nothing but an investment in the union's energy security.
the europe of convergence is the first pillar of action of the romanian presidency of the council of the european union and aims at ensuring economic growth, social development, reducing disparities, competitiveness, connectivity and sustainability.
i was talking about the need for a long-term industrial policy, and just as important is the regulation of the energy union.
the rapporteur for the opinion is the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the main proposals adopted by the envi commission, which had exclusive competence on the 'health' component, were: to increase the budget for health to €473 million; to make access to quality, sustainable and affordable care patient-centred, encouraging disease prevention, early diagnosis, promotion of lifelong health; and to set up a steering committee for health to develop work plans effectively and maximise synergies with other programmes and instruments in which health is integrated.
on climate change, there have been some speakers who have spoken about the degree of commitment of the spanish government in relation to this issue.
we are going to approve in a very short time - i hope - in the cortes generales, presented by the spanish government, a law on climate change, a plan or a national strategy for ecological transition, where, if i may say so, one of the fundamental issues - at least for the spanish government - is that this transition should be fair, that is to say, that those mining basins, those areas of spain where there is a strong presence of thermal power stations can find opportunities and that, logically, they make it understandable to those affected, the main ones, the need to make this transition.
of course that leads to jobs and growth and achieving the goals of the paris agreement on climate change.
the proposal will also encourage innovation in the .eu ecosystem, both at the level of the registry and in the downstream markets of registrars and registrants.
mr president, ordinance 114/2018 on the imposition of taxes in the financial, telecom and energy sectors is a terrible blow to the romanian business environment, but also to romania's credibility at european level.
in the energy sector - and i have also questioned the european commission - measures such as capping the price of natural gas, setting electricity prices administered by the national energy regulatory agency and charging 2% of the turnover of energy companies are in clear contradiction with european legislation.
the increase of up to 20 times the energy turnover tax will certainly be reflected both in the energy bills and on the energy security, as the taxes imposed on banks and telecom companies will be found in higher costs, which will be paid mainly by the poorest of romanian citizens.
this report takes a generally positive approach to artificial intelligence (ai) and robotics and lists a large number of existing and potential benefits to society, industry and specific sectors such as public administration, healthcare, transport, energy, cybersecurity, etc.
integrated pest management in the european agricultural sector aims at maintaining the use of pesticides and forms of intervention at levels that are economically and environmentally justified and that reduce or minimise risks to human health and the environment, giving priority to sustainable biological methods as well as physical and chemical methods of crop protection and pest deterrence.
biodiversity is threatened all over the world!
the loss of biodiversity, together with climate change, is the most serious threat to the environment, on which our economy and society depend!
i welcome the work of the rapporteur and support the european parliament and council directive on the sustainable use of pesticides.
the rational use of water is crucial for obvious reasons: we need water to produce food, energy and consumer goods.
the scope and methods of using treated waste water must be extended, obviously under maximum safety conditions.
i support the rapporteur's position on the need for a regulation to establish harmonised criteria at european union level for urban waste water reuse activities.
sustainable water use is a necessity.
the redistribution of waste water must be done responsibly, and therefore there is a need to clearly set out, along the entire distribution chain - from the reclamation plant operator to the user - concrete responsibilities and measures to verify how they are implemented.
in industrial and agricultural areas, particularly where pollution is highest, there must be strict control.
we issue a lot of documents here, but there is a very big difference between thinking and acting, and, mr timmermans and commissioner, a sustainable economy means people's lives and means citizens' trust in the european project.
we all want this european project to survive, and for that, i think we need to think about how we can define the concepts in the same way for everyone, how we can apply them in a transparent way in the same way for everyone, because it was said here that there were crises in different states - in france, in italy, in the netherlands, in romania, my country - but, you see, these crises have been treated differently, and that does not give confidence for a sustainable european union.
it is important to equip ourselves with innovative financial instruments, but let’s not forget that there are still countries in the eu that lack the basic environmental, transport or energy infrastructure that is indispensable for their future development.
the next item is the debate on the report of ms soledad cabezón ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the assessment of medical technologies and amending directive 2011/24/eu (com ((2018) 0051 c8-0024/2018 2018/0018 ((cod)) (a8-0289/2018).
i also want to reiterate my thanks to the shadow rapporteurs, ms grossetete, ms meissner, ms konečná and others as well as the envi committee, the committee on industry research and energy and the committee on internal market and consumer protection.
i am usually critical of the commission, but now we all have to think that if we do not have a harmonised system in all the member states for screening and verifying foreign investment, not only is unfair competition created, smes in the european union are destroyed, but we end up with no security at all, and finally, today we have debated another report on the sustainability of the european union.
that is why the voluntary partnership agreement with vietnam, once implemented and fully operational, has great potential for creating a positive impact well beyond vietnamese borders and, at the same time, bringing social, economic and environmental benefits to the vietnamese people.
as we know, indigenous communities are often heavily reliant on forests, and very often are the victims of environmental exploitation.
it is important to ensure that the agreement complements the eu commitments to environment protection.
to give an example, our cooperation with nato already involves sharing assessment reports on the information environment and conducting parallel and coordinated exercises involving hybrid threat scenarios, such as the base exercise.
the best antidote against disinformation is, on the one hand, to promote a healthy media environment and, on the other, to spread the word about the positive impact of eu policies.
they have the right to a pluralist media environment and to high—quality information.
this is why the european union is committed to supporting afghanistan before, during and after a peace agreement to ensure that this will be sustainable.
we europeans will do everything in our power to help the people of afghanistan turn this opportunity into a truly sustainable and lasting peace.
the agreement aims to develop eu—afghan relations in a growing range of mutually beneficial areas, such as rule of law, fighting terrorism and extremism, improved governance, achieving sustainable peace in development, combating terrorist financing, countering narcotics smuggling, fostering inclusive and sustainable economic growth and social and rural development and addressing global challenges such as climate change.
the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2010 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. as regards air transport at european level, it must be carried out in an environment characterised by open and fair competition, taking into account, however, very important aspects such as working conditions, quality of service standards and environmental protection.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's analysis shows that the sustainable development goals must be and remain the main objective of the european union.
my group has recently held a hearing in the droi subcommittee on eight environmental activists imprisoned in iran, who are also mentioned in our resolution.
in the current context, it is of the utmost importance that erdf investments contribute to the development of large networks of high-speed digital infrastructure, to the promotion of green and sustainable multimodal urban mobility.
the assessment must be made by a... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, despite the progress made in recent years, some 500 000 lives are lost annually in europe because of air pollution.
moreover, the current climate protests in europe's capitals send a clearer and clearer message - that we need to be more ambitious at home and set an example to follow globally, of course, without jeopardising the competitiveness of our industry in the european union.
it is an important step that, following interinstitutional negotiations with the council, parliament has managed to secure an agreement to reduce emissions by 37,5% by 2030 for new cars and by 31% for cars.
there are also other countries struggling to implement credible and sustainable reforms.
firstly, it goes against the principles of the single market, stifles competition, discriminates against a large number of member states, throws environmental consideration into the dustbin, and in no way does it pursue the best interests of all member states and citizens.
if we took a step back from simplistic slogans, we could see that in the pursuit of protectionist interests we decrease the competitiveness of our industries, create monopolies and raise greenhouse gases and prices for consumers.
the next item is the debate on the report of mrs frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment (com ((2018) 0340 - c8-0218/2018 - 2018/0172 ((cod)) (a8-0317/2018).
currently, only 5% of organic waste is recycled and used as fertiliser.
today, the european union imports over six million tonnes of phosphate per year, but could recover up to two million tonnes of phosphorus from sewage sludge, biodegradable waste and ashes from the neutralisation of animal waste.
the agreed text introduces limits for all contaminants, such as cadmium in phosphate fertilisers, to reduce risks to consumer health and the environment.
i would like to mention that - again very important to me - i also argued that sufficient incentives should be given to the development of decadmixing technologies and to the management of cadmium-rich hazardous waste through relevant financial resources.
for the rest, i just want to say that this is good for farmers, this is good for small- and medium-sized enterprises, this is good for the environment, and, most of all, this is good for our health.
this is why we have proposed some new features: a new international window; individual mobility for artists and cultural operators; support for specific cultural sectors, such as music books and publishing; architectural and cultural heritage; a stronger focus on europe’s audiovisual talents, especially women; encouraging creative spaces for script writing; initiatives to enhance promotion and marketing for european books in europe and beyond; new innovative cross—sectoral actions, encompassing new technologies such as virtual reality and artificial intelligence for content creation, distribution and promotion; and also a scheme to promote a diverse and pluralistic media environment in europe, including through media literacy.
culture in fact ensures economic and social sustainability and should be a central element of development policies.
what is sustainability?
it is clear that sustainable investment must take account of environmental requirements, social requirements, and the protection of resources.
following the opening of the first stage of the infringement procedure against romania for the capping of gas prices by oug 114, the already well-known socialist government excludes economic agents for the purpose of the decision, but intends to maintain the capping of gas prices for consumption by the population and the taxation of energy companies at 2% of turnover.
european farmers should be paid when they decide to practice organic farming to ensure a clean environment and quality oxygen for all of europe.
firstly, we must collectively ensure that our public finances are sustainable, and, secondly, we also need to ensure a fair distribution of the tax burden.
the second thing i’m proud of in this difficult environment is the work that we’ve managed to finally start, and that we need to consolidate, on the detention centres, aiming to empty them and close them together with the un agencies.
it is essential for democracy, both in israel and in palestine and it is essential to guarantee a truly sustainable economic growth for both israelis and palestinians.
this is what the european union will continue to do in the coming months, with all those who are ready to engage towards a just and lasting and sustainable peace.
horizon europe is a highly important programme for the future, with an impact on the union's research and innovation environment for the next budgetary period and with an impact on the union's economy, competitiveness and living standards.
at least 35% of the total budget of this programme will be allocated to supporting the european union's climate objectives, which will stimulate greener products with sustainable added value for end-users.
five mission areas have been established: one - adaptation to climate change, two - cancer, three - healthy oceans, four - crime-neutral cities, five - food and soil health, and we look forward to selecting the first missions that will have to respond to the needs of citizens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i also stress that 35% of the total budget of the 120 billion programme will be devoted to combating climate change, a recommendation also made by the envi commission.
as rapporteur of the committee on transport and tourism on the dossier on promoting fairness and transparency between service providers and online platforms, my objective in this dossier was to ensure a transparent and fair environment for all actors involved in the digital economy: the service provider, the online platforms and the consumer, who is in fact the european citizen.
this requires the creation of a fairly regulated digital environment in which traditional business models do not suffer as a result of the digitisation process.
i very much welcome the focus of this project on areas such as smes, on areas where we are tackling eco-innovation, on environmental issues, or on areas that are related to research in general.
mr president, commissioner, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that we are so few in number to debate a very important regulation: sustainable investment and the elimination of sustainability risks.
we all want that, and we know that sustainable investments in finance have a lot to do with the sustainability of investments.
sustainability of finance should not be blocked and there should be no financing without sustainability.
of course the regulation will increase overall economic sustainability.
in the wake of climate crisis, growing social inequalities and international confrontation, we need europe more than ever.
and in order also to be credible as an institution we need to work, always and every day, to make sure we are fulfilling the principles that we ask others to fulfil, be it transparency, be it gender equality, be it inclusion, workers’ rights, and also reducing our ecological footprint.
these same policies and the production and consumption models that they entail are also co-responsible for the ecosocial crisis and the climate emergency that our planet is experiencing.
we believe that this should be one of the main issues that this house is dealing with and that is why we are asking you to support our proposal to create a special committee on the climate emergency.
we were very busy with the elections and we were not expecting this either, because so many new voters went to the polls for the first time, a great novelty which is also reflected in this house: the new members represent 62% of the total, a very high proportion of new energy.
and this is where all our ambition and all our courage will be needed to tackle the great challenges of climate change, social justice, governance of migration policies, growth, employment and equal opportunities and rights for all.
if you will give me your confidence as president, we will fight together for a modern parliament, more transparent, more environmentally sustainable and more accessible to the citizens.
we are in the midst of a transformation of epochal proportions: youth unemployment, migration, climate change, the digital revolution, new global balances, just to name a few of the big issues that, to be governed, all need new ideas, the courage to combine great wisdom with the utmost audacity.
our economic rules must be able to combine growth, social protection and respect for the environment.
we must have the right tools to combat poverty, to give our young people prospects, to stimulate sustainable investment, and to strengthen the process of convergence between our regions and territories.
climate change is exposing us to enormous risks that are now clear: we need investment in clean technology, to respond to the millions of young people who have taken to the streets and some of them have even come here to this house to remind us that there is no other planet.
now, more than ever, we must ensure equal opportunities for all at a time when europeans are confronted with, and have to go through, multiple transitions – economic, ecological, digital – which all have profound repercussions on our daily lives.
my second point, which i believe is equally vital, is the question of climate change.
today we can say that ours is the first big economy in the world to have committed itself under the paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared with 1990. you know very well that, with all your hard work, we set the framework, making sure that we would overachieve this target by 2030. we have to say that this is the most ambitious contribution of any major economy and that we have now established the legislative framework to deliver on all of our commitments.
but climate change will not stop in 2030, whether we meet our targets or not.
therefore europe must very clearly commit to a path of climate neutrality by 2050, as proposed by the commission last year and supported by the parliament and recognised by a vast majority of the european council.
this is why we have committed to investing at least 25% of the next long-term budget in climate action.
for this reason we have launched a sustainable finance strategy as a part of the capital markets union in order to channel the flows of private capital more effectively into more sustainable investment.
let's act on the global climate emergency; let's not let them down.
climate change requires a transformation that must have two axes: inclusion, for it to be a just transition, and sustainability.
and in this respect i must congratulate the finnish presidency of the council on its proposals for a sustainable future.
we want a social and solidarity-based economy, and to achieve this we need to strengthen the european semester, so that it includes the un sustainable development goals and the pillar of social rights.
we want a strong europe, we want to promote human rights, labour and environmental standards in multilateral agreements.
we are here to build a strong europe on the values of equality, solidarity, sustainability and justice, and we will work side by side with those who stand up for these goals.
let us use this mandate so that by the next elections we have such a device that has already been agreed with the parliament, the council and the member states and we no longer waste time throwing insults and show the european citizens that we are capable of making decisions and we are capable of representing them!
third, we need a new vision and policies that align environmental imperatives with economic and social ones.
we have a climate change agenda that is very clear.
without the strict standards of sanitation, phytosanitary, animal welfare and environmental protection, agricultural production in the mercosur countries will be difficult to compete with that of european farmers.
at the same time, it is a guarantee for consumers, who will have access to quality food at reasonable prices, but also a guarantee of a clean environment.
the demographic change, the globalisation of the world economy, the rapid digitalisation of the world of work and the natural change in the climate.
i want europe to become the first climate-neutral continent in the world by 2050.
our current goal of reducing our emissions by 40% by 2030 is not enough.
a two-step approach is needed to reduce co2 emissions by 2030 by 50%, if not 55%.
i will put forward the first ever european climate law, which will set the 2050 target in law.
i will propose a sustainable europe investment plan and turn parts of the european investment bank into a climate bank.
emissions must have a price that changes our behaviour.
to complete this work, and to ensure our companies can compete on a level playing field, i will introduce a carbon border tax to avoid carbon leakage.
therefore, i will refocus our european semester to make sure we stay on track with our sustainable development goals.
i know, as a mother of seven, that it makes a difference for their entire life if children have access to education, sports, music, healthy food and a loving environment.
we are committed to these 40 million people, and they expect us to deliver on the promises we have made to them: a fair europe with comparable living conditions for all, a modern europe where we must remain or become the research department of the world, a safe europe that protects borders against illegal migration while helping people in need, a cosmopolitan europe that trades and lives in partnership with africa, and an ecological europe that protects our environment, our climate, while taking into account social and economic consequences.
we want to be sure that in the next five years we will lay the foundations for a sustainable project and future for all europeans.
you take on the goal of combating the climate emergency and translating that ambition into legislation.
that law is necessary, as is setting binding targets to meet our 2030 emissions reduction commitments.
but, in addition to the ecological transformation, it is fundamental for us that no one is left behind and that is why we are glad to see that you accept the fund for a just transition.
it also stresses the need to put in place an investment plan for a sustainable europe.
when we ask for the introduction of the sustainable development objectives in the european semester, we do not just want them to be taken into account as a principle.
we do not want to continue to penalize governments with excessive deficits for investing in an economic transformation that cares for people, creates new opportunities and lays the foundations for a sustainable future.
we cannot let down the millions of young people who came to vote and who have called for action on climate change, for decent jobs for their generation.
we must not disappoint the millions of entrepreneurs, workers and farmers who expect europe to become a real opportunity in an open world, a europe that builds an economy that serves people, able to integrate ecology, climate balance, sustainability, but also new technologies and digital strategy, as opportunities and not constraints.
ursula von der leyen's candidacy has received strong support from the member states and she has now presented her political line paper, which takes very well into account the objectives that are important to many political groups here: an ambitious climate policy, security, sustainable economic growth and gender equality.
we wanted to have visible, sustainable results, to which citizens could easily and clearly relate, by exercising this mandate.
at the same time, the concrete results achieved in areas such as the internal market in all its dimensions - energy, social affairs or climate change - are elements that will remain benchmarks and are already being taken up by our trio partners, finland and croatia.
with a view to the energy union, i adopted the proposal to amend the gas directive, which will for the first time provide a uniform and transparent regulatory framework for gas interconnections with third countries.
we also sought to facilitate reflection on developing a common long-term vision towards climate neutrality.
we have adopted the first regulations on emissions standards for heavy duty vehicles.
i am thinking in particular of the strengthening of the european border and coast guard, the copyright directive, or the european gas directive, which was particularly difficult to conclude and therefore my colleague energy and climate commissioner miguel arias cañete also decided to join me today to express also his appreciation for the hard work on this very important piece of legislation.
we want the european union to take advantage of new technologies and the ecological transformation to create new opportunities in all the territories of the union.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
the security structures, in particular the ministry of internal affairs in chisinau, must be integrated into the ecosystem.
so don't waste your time.
so we hope that you have as much time as possible to put all the energy into making the decisions that we need to prevent the climate crisis from getting worse.
now more than ever we must look not only at economic growth but also at the cultural, human and sustainable growth of europe.
i am from campania and my land, like the rest of the south, has been forgotten by everyone, but for years we have been waiting for the clean-up of areas contaminated with toxic waste throughout europe, for years we have been waiting for our excellences to be safeguarded, for years we have been waiting for protection for our farmers and fishermen.
gentlemen, without the rule of law there is no justice, without justice there is no clean environment, without justice there is no public health, without justice there is no united europe.
i also want to thank you for the carbon offsetting that you've committed to do as president.
(applause)
mr president, now that we are talking about pollution in the big cities, here in the european parliament, it is a good time to recall the very serious threat it poses to public health.
and that requires drastic responses as well, in the form of changes in our energy, in how we organize our transportation and in the infrastructure that we have in big cities.
that is why this is the best time to denounce the shame that a big city like madrid, with more than three million inhabitants, has decided to reverse a decision that is intended to combat pollution in the city center by creating a low-emission zone.
an immoral decision, because there are fifteen premature deaths a day from pollution in madrid; an irresponsible decision, because all the indicators, all the indicators of the city were saying that it was a newly introduced measure that was working; and a measure that goes against the sense of history, because the administrations, even if the right governs with the extreme right, cannot walk towards the past.
and that is why we are asking the european commission and the council to take action and to shame the madrid city council for this decision, which goes against the european union's criteria for combating climate change and for clean cities.
we are talking about pollution here.
in madrid the left has been in power for four years and the homework has not been done in madrid, because there are no optimal results against pollution.
but walking like crabs, backwards, sure, sure, we're not going to solve the pollution problem in big cities.
according to the european environment agency, athens is also exceeding the limits on ozone, with more than 140 micrograms per cubic meter, while the european limit for ozone is 119 micrograms per cubic meter.
better quality of life means electro-mobility, electric drive, electric drive with a significant density of chargers over short distances and tax exemptions, so that we move towards the adoption of electro-mobility at a sustainable cost.
over 400 000 deaths a year are due to excessive air pollution.
in addition to the human tragedy, congestion and pollution also cause economic costs of 100 billion euros a year.
many countries have therefore already established environmental zones to reduce pollution in cities, where most people are exposed to pollution.
but if we push through climate legislation that poses existential challenges to large populations with older diesel vehicles, such as craft businesses, the positive dynamics in climate and environmental policy are likely to reverse very quickly.
we need a holistic approach to tackling air pollution in european cities, addressing the different causes of air pollution smart cities.
the development of a smart and sustainable public transport sector, combined with the development of bicycle paths, should therefore also be a priority of eu funding.
but coworking outlets at national and city borders can also be a solution - solutions that make people's lives easier and serve the environment at the same time.
i know what pre-accession funds were, i know what cohesion funds were, and these funds have done good things in our communities, plus they've reduced emissions.
but we can also say that with economic growth, traffic pollution has increased, because in my community, the number of cars has tripled.
inside russia, civil society activists in different areas of society continue to be harassed, including environmental activists.
we urge the russian authorities to stop curtailing peaceful and legitimate activities of environmental organisations by fabricating criminal cases against local environmental activists, arresting participants of local peaceful protests or imposing disproportionately heavy fines on them.
unfortunately, the union often does not encourage member states to plant forests, and this was the case, ladies and gentlemen, with lulucf in the previous term of office, when the role of active forestry in reducing emissions was not appreciated.
the bark beetle is spreading, and probably because of climate change, storms are increasing, including last autumn in my region.
however, forests and trees play a very important role in climate protection and biodiversity: trees and forests are like green lungs, and for this and to do this, sustainable forestry is of paramount importance.
the role of forests in climate protection can only be realised if the wood is also harvested, that is, if the forest is also used, and if the wood is ultimately also used to produce building materials or to produce energy.
the commitment of forestry farmers to sustainability and sustainable forest management is to be commended, and we must do everything we can to encourage forestry farmers to keep the european forest alive, to keep it alive in a sustainable way, so that it can also fulfil its multiple functions in the fight against climate change.
but above all, i think we should also consider whether we do not need to introduce new instruments in the climate change debate to ensure that europe's forests are sustainable and that they play a role in the fight against climate change.
we are facing a real climate emergency: only a strong and united european union will be able to give our citizens the courageous and immediate answers that await us.
although forests should be protected for their essential role in conserving biodiversity, mass deforestation in protected areas continues.
forests cover 40% of the european union's surface and are of great importance to us in many ways, but now especially in terms of combating climate change.
forests provide solutions to climate change in two ways.
on the one hand, they are important and significant carbon sinks, but on the other hand, they are also a sustainable source of raw materials.
but now that we are talking specifically about deforestation, it is important to emphasize the role of active, sustainable forest management.
and it is undeniable that as climate change progresses, various extreme events and storms will also increase in europe, and therefore we must take good care of our forests.
our forests not only provide homes, shelter and food for millions of animals and plants, but also actively contribute to the quality of life of the people who live in their environment, to the development of the economy and the countryside, and not least to the balance of the climate.
since we are aware that the forest is not only a habitat, not only an economic and environmental factor, but part of the created world entrusted to our care by god, the hungarian government has decided to increase the proportion of domestic forest areas by an additional 6,000 hectares... (the president shall take the floor)
mr president, i wanted to take the floor to emphasize that the protection of forests is still, i think, at a very low level on our continent.
although these forests represent only a tiny fraction of the forest area in europe, they are absolutely remarkable in terms of ecological and conservation value.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union, this wonderful project, this project which, in my view, is the best thing that has happened on this continent, has been talking for years about the measures needed to protect the environment.
they have experience in implementing many environmental projects and even experience of successful projects carried out in partnership between several countries.
and we must demand from this forum, at european level, that these funds be opened up as soon as possible for the implementation of projects and that they be addressed to all environmental actors equally.
this is the same turkey that doesn't use any environmental standards.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while we are talking about sustainability and biodiversity, europe itself is currently facing the extinction of species that could be saved if we took urgent action.
it continues to be fished aggressively by ukrainian fishermen who do not comply with eu rules and is threatened by climate change and dams being built upstream.
madam president, the fight against climate change also depends on the rule of law and its respect.
this article provides for a cross-cutting obligation for the union to take account of the impact on the environment in all its policies.
this will mean a significant increase in carbon dioxide emissions.
so if we are to fully live up to our desire to stop the effects of climate change, we must start at home, including by respecting international law.
it's about climate change, it's about digitalization, and of course, it's about social inclusion.
madam president, the enormous environmental disaster in the amazon rainforest, the global lung, is the result of the incursion of large capitalist agro-industrial enterprises, mining activities, timber groups, and the financial institutions that finance them.
the reactionary bolsonaro government is escalating the anti-environmental policy of previous governments, having handed over the area to commercial exploitation for biofuel production, agro-industrial chain products, mining and uncontrolled logging.
it is significant that, despite the big words on the climate, the european parliament - and with the vote of the european people's party - refused even to adopt a resolution on the amazon.
i would like to illustrate this with just one example: brazil did not commit itself to a substantial reduction in emissions from industry or other sectors in the paris agreement, but brazil's main commitments in the paris agreement are in the area of forestry, forest protection and reforestation.
and if that doesn't work at all, then that's a very big problem for the world's climate as well.
the fires in siberia and alaska are a huge threat to the climate because they also release large amounts of methane, which is even more harmful to the climate than co2.
the amazon matters to us because it matters to the global climate.
it’s a carbon sink that can mitigate global warming.
if the amazon rainforest were to die, the large amount of greenhouse gas it would release would speed up the climate change process.
but this is a vicious circle: if the international community and the european union does not step up its work to cut greenhouse gas emissions, the rate of global warming will not slow down and these fires will continue to spread.
in the same spirit, rich signatories of the paris agreement who pledged to pay developing ones to plan and plant carbon—consuming trees have to do so.
madam president, the gallery, as you see, is packed with young people and they care more than all of us about climate change.
they accelerate global warming and increase the overall temperature of the planet.
the eu has just signed the mercosur deal and insists that the deal does not lower environmental standards and that the precautionary principle ensures that the eu and the mercosur countries can continue to protect the environment.
the eu says it is legally committed to respecting the environment and biodiversity.
if the burning of the largest rainforest in the world is not serious enough, what does it take for the eu to suspend this trade deal and respect the sustainable chapter of it?
europeans are increasingly concerned about protecting the environment and expect new measures from us.
we must commit the european economy to this, but always with a view to maintaining the economy's competitiveness, preparing the energy transition in stages and paying attention to the criteria for allocating funds.
however, there are major environmental emergencies in romania.
we have an economic rift in the middle of the continent, coupled with an ecological rift that we need to correct.
i ask you to support this request, especially as coordinator of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi).
we also need to work together with the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) and colleagues from other committees.
i would like to say to peter liese and the ppe that to do it thoroughly is to go back to the environment committee and the health committee and make sure that the fight against cancer is taken up there.
now, the next topical issue on the agenda is climate change, an existential threat that has been, and still is, at the centre of attention, not least after the discussions in new york.
we, as a union, need to help raise global ambition and continue to lead the way on climate action.
this is because we may soon reach a tipping point where we can only mitigate the effects of climate change instead of reversing them.
so, at the meeting in october, leaders will focus on the international aspects of climate change.
they will discuss the outcome of the united nations’ efforts at the climate summit in new york and they will prepare for the upcoming cop25 in santiago de chile in december.
i cannot exclude, however, that during the discussion leaders may touch upon the eu’s climate objectives, too.
this requires that we demonstrate our resolve in the fight against climate change, and this requires that we commit ourselves to the stability of our region and beyond.
mr president, it is clear that climate change is one of the major challenges facing us.
it is clear that climate neutrality must be achieved by 2050 at the latest.
and even if one can doubt the good will of those who are supposed to implement it, it remains that, for the first time in the history of the european union, and therefore for the first time in the history of trade agreements, we have insisted on environmental and social standards.
a sustainable solution to the syrian conflict and only be reached through a genuine political transition.
it also asks us to remove the references agreed with theresa may on a very important point, which is the level playing field, that is to say a basic rule of the game, a basis of fairness and rules of the game in taxation, state aid, social rights, environmental rights, consumer rights.
(applause) i would like to thank we are faced with this demand, which suggests the risk that we, with a basic free trade agreement, will have to face regulatory competition, or even a risk of fiscal, social or environmental dumping, which we will not accept.
ladies and gentlemen, mr president, it should not surprise anyone in london or elsewhere that the european union is seeking, in this withdrawal agreement, to obtain legally sound and sustainable operational solutions.
for a very simple reason, brexit, when it happens, will be sustainable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming european council debate on 17 and 18 october is expected to discuss a set of key challenges for the future of the european union: the budgetary framework for 2021-2027, the union's priorities for the next five years, brexit and climate change.
with the resolution that this house is going to vote on tomorrow, we reaffirm our firm commitment to the priorities and items included in the provisional report on the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, which we will approve in november 2019. additional financial support is essential to deliver on the commitments made by the president-elect of the european commission and, in particular, for a just ecological transition.
because only with an ambitious budget will the union be able to meet the priorities of the strategic agenda for 2019-2024. under the strategic agenda, heads of state and government have a responsibility to urgently deliver on the following priorities: the development of the european pillar of social rights, which is a top priority for moving towards a fairer europe; the reform of the dublin system on asylum and immigration; the integration of the sustainable development goals into the european semester, and the goal of a climate neutral europe by 2050; the combination of banking and tax union and the fight against tax fraud to ensure a fair contribution to the strengthening of the europe of well-being.
and we also talked about issues that are now at the heart of the agenda: the fight against climate change.
in this context, the recent climate action summit in new york has shown that only the european union can provide the leadership needed in this area.
the fight against climate change and the achievement of the paris agreement and the sustainable development goals are of vital importance for the european union and developing countries to address the devastating economic, social and environmental consequences of human activity.
a coherent implementation of the different external and internal policies of the union and a robust financial framework for the implementation of adaptation and mitigation measures are key to reducing the impact of global warming.
i work in iasi in an emergency hospital where i see the effects of pollution, of a poor infrastructure, and i think that clear criteria must be set, perhaps by the european parliament, so that these ecological goals, which we all want, have a chance of being completed.
i ask the european parliament today, we are many people who want green energy and green transport to be the healthy solution for the future, to come up with clear criteria and with additional investments, especially in those areas of europe that really need to make these transformations in the poor areas that will more easily accept to align with these european requirements.
the survivors can be reintegrated into the workforce and be supported to have a proper working environment according to their needs.
if we want to have an ambitious, green, sustainable pac and if we want our farmers to survive further competition coming with the mercosur deal, for example, we need to support this core backbone of our societies.
i would personally like to support a policy that keeps both the issue of genetically modified food within reasonable limits and, of course, the sustainability of forestry and agriculture worldwide.
after next year's parliamentary elections, the top issues of paramount importance, education, environmental protection, health, healthy lifestyles, must be addressed.
we are determined that the eu leads the way in fighting the climate crisis.
a socially just transition to a green economy is not only a necessity but also an opportunity to improve our environment, while creating jobs.
a waste of time and a waste of energy!
we are talking about the need to protect the environment and the environment is a matter of concern to us.
in spring, the european commission committed to a climate-neutral europe by 2050. unfortunately, this proposal does not yet have the unanimous support of the heads of government, and yet the social democrats have managed to make the so-called 'new green deal' a top priority for the future commission.
we will not accept that workers, small businesses or families pay the bill for the ecological transition.
there is something worse than the contradiction between what is said and what is done and that is not being willing to put the necessary energy and resources so that there is no contradiction between what is promised and what is fulfilled.
we must rebuild a balanced trade agreement with the so-called rules of the game to avoid the risks of fiscal, social, environmental or consumer dumping.
finally, there are concerns about the future of the eu, with proposals to raise taxes for the umpteenth time in the name of fighting the climate crisis.
the challenges have been great and, despite our differences of opinion, the polemics, the debates, which are also a sign of the vitality of democracy, the european parliament has always been able to count on a europe that is fairer, more united, more sustainable and closer to the citizens.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
as we demanded five years ago, you launched the european investment plan which has been the seed of the european green deal and the sustainable investment plan which the next commission will have to put forward.
and we are trying to do that, if possible, with more energy.
we are committed to building a continent that is united, prosperous, with converging economies and that respects the environment.
yes, we want to meet our environmental commitments, to strengthen (words that are not mutually intelligible) technical assistance and not leave, for example, a newly created institution like the european public prosecutor's office without sufficient funds.
we want europe to be a world leader in fighting climate change.
the question is: is economic growth per se bad for climate change and environmental protection?
i can imagine a growth of the european economy that can be achieved not against climate change but for climate change or at least climate neutral.
i have only two thoughts on this: the whole service sector, where we care for people; if we increase education and training, if we increase childcare and childcare, that can create growth, but it has nothing to do with emissions, with chimneys, with co2 greenhouse gases.
secondly, if we take the energy issue and advocate more wind power - also in ireland - we already have and want more: wind turbines need steel, aluminium, copper and concrete.
now the question is how steel, copper, aluminium and concrete are produced: in modern steelworks, highly efficient, environmentally friendly or by importing from overseas from old steelworks, with price dumping and more emissions.
so i ask you to accept that economic growth, gdp growth, is not one-to-one with increases in co2 emissions.
may i remind you: the european union has grown significantly in recent decades, and yet co2 emissions have fallen significantly not strongly enough, but they have fallen significantly.
the decoupling of emissions and economic growth is possible.
the decoupling of climate-damaging emissions is nevertheless linked to and possible.
have you dealt with the interoperability of energy systems, with the steel industry, which the commissioner mentioned, where research is now being done to ensure that the co2 emitted by the steel industry is used for the production of basic materials within the chemical industry, so that there can be a carbon neutral steel industry?
all of this is concrete, and if you think that the climate impact is zero, then i can only tell you this: if we do this kind of research, then it will benefit others and then it will have an impact on the whole world, not just europe.
that's our goal, to be modern, to be competitive, to be climate-sensitive, to be environmentally friendly, to do research that makes us globally competitive.
the region is far from a sustainable peace order.
for example, my own local authority, county meath, today had an action training course on climate change for its staff and its local councillors.
the neighbouring county, louth, have a very strong dunleer sustainable energy group and they work at ground level and help vulnerable communities refurbish their homes with support from government.
i do agree that we need a more environmental common agricultural policy, but we need to give strong signals and reward people who do deliver.
we need to fix that before we can really fix climate change issues.
(applause)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are facing a climate and ecological emergency today is a fact that must be taken very seriously, no matter what anyone says in this chamber.
today, acting on climate change means implementing policies in all sectors, without exception.
first of all, we must protect what we still have, by defending the environment and biodiversity.
but then i think of the challenge of cleaner energy and more sustainable agriculture, the great theme of mobility, with less polluting means of transport and more efficient and integrated infrastructure, making the most of new models of shared mobility as well.
let us think about the circular economy and the possibility of employing new workers in the transformation of waste into new raw materials.
the commitments made by president ursula von der leyen simply need to be financed from a more ambitious and climate-friendly multiannual union budget.
madam president, commissioner oettinger, every time we discuss climate change in this house i look over there at the gallery at the young people because actually that’s what we’re discussing about.
i want to give you a message today: the european union is a climate mitigation giant but the european union is also a climate adaptation dwarf.
climate change is here and is happening now, but we are doing so little to adapt to it.
we must adapt to climate change by changing the way we build houses, by preventing climate migration, by building dykes to prevent floods, by managing forests to prevent wildfires, by greening the roofs in our cities.
in france, insulating homes to reduce greenhouse emissions is also an adaptation measure preparing the homes for climate change.
but in the current mff, only 3% of our eu structural and investment funds on climate are related to adaptation.
i would like to draw attention to the fact that a key element should not be missing from this debate: our most powerful weapon to combat climate change - the european union's forests.
they cover almost half the union's territory, they are europe's lungs, they sequester most of its carbon dioxide emissions and they are at the heart of all the environmental commitments we have made: the strategic forest plan, the un sustainable development goals, the paris agreement.
i therefore believe it is very important that in the future european green deal the commission and the commissioner responsible for this portfolio should think of an effective, rigorous and applicable strategy for all member states for the forests of the european union, to which both the attention and the time and money necessary to accelerate the fight against climate change should be devoted.
and in my view, health education should be taught in schools so that each of us knows what we need to do to promote a healthy lifestyle, and i don't just mean the environment.
instead, our democracies are facing global competition from authoritarian systems that advertise themselves with a high level of efficiency and prosperity, but without giving their citizens what we take for granted in the west: freedom and social justice, progress and sustainability, democracy, the rule of law, universal human rights - all of which make europe worth living in and a place of longing for many people around the world, which by the way still makes authoritarian rulers around the world nervous, because it is obviously still highly attractive.
the transition to a common europe in east and west remains a major challenge for all of us, especially in the face of the simultaneous rapid changes brought about by globalisation and digitalisation, by global migration and climate change, and by dissolving international obligations.
the rules-based international order is under pressure and this in an increasingly interconnected world where truth no longer counts and national egos are indulged, but where the most pressing questions of world food, migration, climate change and security can only be answered globally.
we have to recognize that without expanding access to education, we have no chance of achieving the sustainable development goals by 2030. we can only effectively advocate for children's rights if we help them in the family environment, strengthen the family environment.
if we really want a sustainable development policy for the 21st century, we have to reduce the numbers i mentioned by developing a development policy around education.
for this reason, i personally have very high expectations of the child guarantee and will work hard to ensure that it is implemented properly and produces sustainable results.
and we cannot say that we are allowing a type of steel from other countries, which does not comply with any rules, to enter the european market and we are paying for this ecological price amounts that are destroying our industry and, above all, destroying our people.
the council held a dialogue on media pluralism and the rule of law in the digital age in november 2017. the related presidency conclusions reflected the importance of the issue and repeated the commitment by the council and the member states to secure a safe working environment for journalists as part of their duty to uphold fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law.
an environment where journalists are free to report on any topic, on all platforms, without censoring themselves, is the key to media freedom.
states must also fulfil their obligation to protect freedom of expression and the safety of journalists by providing an enabling legal environment, by taking criminal threats against journalists seriously, and by vigorously prosecuting actual attacks.
therefore, we must never forget the importance of journalists, the increasingly dangerous environment they are working in and we must find an efficient way to protect them, because we need the truth.
madam president, we talk more and more about fighting climate change, but we do not pay enough attention to the most important weapon we have in this fight, namely the european union's forests, which sequester most of the carbon dioxide emissions.
so how can we think about winning the war on climate change?
because it is essential that the cofinancing rate, currently set at 85% but threatened to be reduced to 70% in the proposal for the next multiannual financial framework, be maintained, which is seriously detrimental to the sustainability of the public accounts of the outermost regions.
the agenda will be dominated by two pressing issues – climate change and the multiannual financial framework.
let me start with climate change.
you will all recall that in june the european council came close to an agreement on climate neutrality by 2050. however, a few member states felt they needed more time to assess the efforts and costs linked to the transition to climate neutrality before committing to such ambitious targets.
the european council therefore asked the council and the commission to advance work on the conditions, incentives and the enabling framework, and pledged to finalise its guidance before the end of the year with a view to the adoption and submission of the eu’s long-term strategy to the united nations framework convention on climate change in early 2020. in december, the european council will aim to commit the eu to reaching climate neutrality by 2050 and identify the enabling framework that will allow us to reach that objective.
the discussion in this plenary yesterday again highlighted the need for the eu to act decisively in order to remain a world leader in climate issues.
first of all, the next mff should be able to deliver on the policies set out in the strategic agenda – ambition on climate policy, commitment to just transition, increasing the investments to research and development and a comprehensive management of migration are just a few key policies the next mff will be able to address.
however, we also note the importance of cohesion policy to the unity and success of the union, as well as the need to devote sufficient funds to our farmers so that they can continue to develop sustainable agriculture.
we cannot talk about europe’s future – our efforts to ensure sustainability and the right budget to meet our citizens’ needs – without the understanding that strengthening our economic and monetary union is a fundamental component for our success.
in the face of increasing pressure in our external environment, we need this resilience at home.
the multiannual budgetary perspective is back on the council's agenda, alongside our climate ambitions.
the council will have on its agenda two subjects which are fundamentally linked: the budgetary perspective and the climate.
climate change is one of the best examples.
if we want a europe that is both carbon neutral and has a vibrant economy that creates jobs, we must ensure and support this transition.
this is the meaning of the green deal: combining the environment and the economy.
we have put programmes that include measures against climate change at the heart of the 2020 budget negotiations because the majority of european citizens continue to express this as their primary concern.
we have clearly stated our priorities: climate protection, innovation and future businesses, supporting the new generations and the continental east-west economic balance.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the protection of the environment, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
take money in hand for sustainable industrial policy and future technology and allow other wto members to do the same.
we need that to stop climate change.
either international trade will help make our societies fairer and our economies more sustainable or it will become just a political tool for the populist of the day to use and consume.
all trade should be subject to compliance with minimum social, health and environmental standards, and short-distance travel should be systematically encouraged.
if there is one area where the world needs our leadership, it is on protecting our climate.
how can it not be existential when 85% of people in extreme poverty live in the 20 countries most vulnerable to climate change?
we do not have a moment to waste anymore on fighting climate change.
it will help us cut emissions while creating jobs.
they want and expect europe to act on climate and environment, but they also need affordable, clean and secure energy.
they need to commute to those new jobs or be connected from home and we have to make sure that those needs are fulfilled in a sustainable way.
it is a generational transition towards climate neutrality by mid—century, but this transition must be just and inclusive or it will not happen at all.
the european union will mainstream climate financing throughout its budget, but also throughout capital markets and the entire investment chain.
i am particularly happy that the progress it has made to strengthen its role as european climate bank is obvious.
we only account for approximately 9% of global emissions.
from china to canada and through to california, others are working with us on their own emissions trading system, and phil hogan will ensure that our future trade agreements include a chapter on sustainable development because we know that climate change is about all of us.
our industry is world class in high value sectors, for instance making a third of the world’s space satellites, and our companies are at the cutting edge, holding 40% of the world’s renewable technology patents.
we should harness this transformative power of the twin digital and climate transition to strengthen our own industrial base and our innovation potential.
he knows that we need sound public finances for sustainable growth and he will drive our competitiveness and our sustainability.
we should never forget that competitive sustainability has always been at the heart of our social market economy.
the things we make today may have changed, but we must rediscover our competitive sustainability.
it was in this spirit that each and every member state committed to the united nations sustainable development goals and it is in this spirit that paolo gentiloni will oversee the implementation of the goals.
we can all be happy that virginijus sinkevičius will be leading europe’s fight to preserve our biodiversity and oceans, while ensuring our coastal and fishing communities can thrive.
the twin transitions – climate and digitalisation – will bring changes for all, but let there be no doubt: farming will remain a valued part of our culture and our future.
we need a sustainable farm—to—fork strategy – from capital access for young farmers to the fact that imported food products from third countries must comply with the european union’s environmental standards.
in 2024 we will have implemented an ambitious and smart climate policy based on innovation, without attacking farmers and without doing politics against the industry.
you agreed to make the ecological transformation the main focus of the next legislature.
before the hearings began, the socialists and democrats gave our final vote that this great goal of environmental, economic and social sustainability be materialized with very concrete measures that transform and improve the lives of our citizens.
and that's why we're committed to an ambitious just transition fund with additional resources, to help make the ecological transition socially just and leave no one behind.
and the best guide to renewing our principles, to ensuring the sustainability of our social model and to ensuring the coherence of our policies are the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda.
the climate emergency cannot wait.
first, we have the ambition to make europe the first carbon neutral continent by 2050, and its economy will have to be ready to meet this challenge.
so let's invest in transition with a just transition fund and a climate bank, with a budget that's up to the task.
we must also show that we are capable of managing an asylum and migration policy that lives up to our values, of building a trade policy with sustainability clauses that are effectively implemented, and of building a true europe of defence, but open to partnerships.
we will support you in the opening up of the single market in services, in finding a lasting solution to migration and in implementing ambitious climate plans, but let me emphasise we will give full support to the communities whose livelihoods are threatened by the absurd ramping-up of climate ambitions.
europe has already done so much in terms of reducing emissions, others are outside doing their job.
– mr president, the new commission takes office at a time when the climate emergency doesn’t leave us much time to act.
we’re happy to see that climate and environmental issues are a key priority for the new commission and, by the way, also a key priority for more than 90% of the european population.
however, we’re not so sure that the headlines will be followed by concrete action because if the commission, as it has announced, does not change its agricultural and trade policy, then any climate measure will remain half—hearted.
but be sure that, whenever you take an initiative that protects the climate, that strengthens a social europe and that enhances the rule of law, we are more than ready to support you.
we’re looking forward to a good cooperation with you and we wish you and your college all the strength, all the courage and energy that it takes not just to hold our continent together, but to bring it forward.
however, we must acknowledge that europe has never had a commission with such a high level of ambition for the environment and digital, with a viewpoint that seems effective and promising.
i hope that all those who have made the environment, equality and the rule of law their banner will do the same and take responsibility rather than just express wishes.
i would also like to remind this chamber and the people who are following our debate that israel is the only democracy in the middle east, and maybe we should put more of our energy into persuading all countries in the area to also follow the path of a real democracy.
also when it comes to security, innovation, agriculture, fighting terrorism, or even fighting climate change, israel has so much to give europe.
there is an ecological problem - everyone has said this - but there is also a social problem, which we have rightly mentioned when we talk about the environmentalists who are now criminalised, sometimes even persecuted.
it is true that the area of forests in europe has increased, but it is also true that their quality has deteriorated in many parts, as a result of climate change, fluctuations, particularly drought, and pests.
every hour hectares of forest are disappearing, and yes, this is happening in europe, where the priorities are protecting the environment and reducing emissions.
– the new un environment programme report warns that unless global greenhouse gas emissions fall by 7.6% each year between 2020 and 2030, the world will miss the opportunity to get on track towards the 1.5 c temperature goal of the paris agreement.
as 43% of eu land is covered by forests, their role go well beyond carbon neutrality.
a sustainable and active forest management contributes also to climate change mitigation and adaptation, improves energy security, creates jobs and promotes economic growth.
madam president, today, 28 november 2019, the european parliament declares a state of climate and environmental emergency.
europe, which has contributed to the climate catastrophe since the industrial revolution, has a duty of responsibility to the people of the world, to the species and to the young people of the world who are calling us to act now.
i think that the european parliament is calling for very ambitious targets, and i think it is the duty of the european union to support member states in reducing carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases.
i am glad that we have finally voted in favour of a provision in this resolution which would prohibit the further use of nuclear energy for energy production, which i think would be absolutely unmanageable for many countries.
madam president, i did not support the resolution on the climate and environmental emergency because, although there is climate change, the measures proposed in it affect the sovereignty and interests of the member states in a way that violates their interest.
imposing such a large reduction would put our country at risk of shifting production across the border to third countries outside the european union and would shift carbon emissions to countries where such measures are not in place.
madam president, i support this resolution and welcome parliament’s ambitious agenda on climate change for the next five years.
while the eu continues to be a world leader on climate action, this has to be an international effort, and the need for greater collective ambition must be recognised.
it is vital that the climate change debate is inclusive and leaves nobody behind, and for this reason i take issue with the provision to phase out fossil fuel subsidies by 2020. while we need to move away from fossil subsidies, ending them by 2020 next year would deny citizens access to much-needed fuel allowances.
as commission president von der leyen said: ‘the transition to renewable energy sources must be fair and inclusive, as it is ambitious’.
we remember with emotion the victims of this islamist terrorist attack: antonio megalizzi, an italian journalist who was in strasbourg to cover the european parliament; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the european union in the field of environmental protection.
the commission has adopted a communication on the other mr president, two weeks ago i made a promise to this parliament: i promised you that my commission would not waste time.
it is the people of europe who have called for decisive action on climate change.
in july, immediately after my appointment, i put climate action at the heart of my political agenda.
honourable members, this is not just our vision for a climate-neutral continent; it is a roadmap for action, with 50 practical steps on europe's path towards 2050. it will take more than a generation to reach that goal.
last friday, 44 of europe's largest investors, representing eur 6 trillion of assets, called on the european union to adopt, as quickly as possible, a climate law for climate neutrality in 2050. they want that law.
it is about accountability and reliability, and therefore a crucial building block of our european green deal will be, in 2020, the proposal of the very first european climate law.
it will make the transition towards climate neutrality accountable and reliable.
next summer we will present a plan to increase our ambition in cutting emissions.
if companies invest in clean technologies, if they respect our environment, it can't be that they face unfair competition from heavy polluters, and that's when we will apply a carbon border adjustment mechanism with full compliance with wto rules.
honourable members, the european green deal is not only about emissions: it is about boosting innovation; it is about quality food; it is about modern mobility.
some are converting plastic waste into modern furniture, for example.
farmers are using data from our satellites to adapt to climate change.
today we are investing in renewables and algorithms, and the european green deal is about reconciling our economy with our planet, reconciling the way we produce and the way we consume with our planet, and respecting the environment we live in.
honourable members, exactly one year ago, the city of katowice hosted the global climate conference of cop24.
this city, that for over a century was a capital of coal, became the global capital of climate action.
it will protect biodiversity and revive the blue economy.
we also have to learn what this change means in our daily life how to practice sustainability.
what does it mean for our buildings, for our waste management, for our travels, for our paper use, you name it?
today in college, we set ourselves the target to be, as a commission, climate neutral by 2030, and i invite parliament and the council to do the same.
our climate pact will be with them and for them and for all those who are ready to play a part in this endeavor.
with this roadmap for action, we make the cost of the transition fully sustainable.
only one year ago, no one would have imagined that millions would take to the streets for climate.
our cities are choosing clean energy.
it is made in europe for europe to lead the way to climate neutrality in 2050. europe has always given its best when it has worked together as a union.
we in the epp might not be climate warriors, but we are – and we need to be – climate nerds.
for the epp it is clear that an ambitious climate policy and a smart industrial policy need to go hand in hand.
what we are facing today is a new growth model, which aims to transform the european union into a more just and prosperous society, capable of responding to the challenges of climate change.
last november this parliament declared a climate emergency.
it implies a total paradigm shift to bury fossil fuels for good and achieve a climate-neutral europe by 2050. if we are to achieve these goals through a just transition, we must rely on three pillars.
the first is that we need a green pillar, which implements the united nations' 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals.
in this respect, we welcome the fact that the proposal fulfils our longstanding aspiration to incorporate the sustainable development goals into the european semester.
and i also refer to this green pillar because it incorporates climate law with clear objectives and the ultimate commitment to achieve climate neutrality.
the disadvantaged classes cannot be the ones most affected by climate change.
to do this, we need the multiannual financial framework with at least 1.3% of gross national income and we need to talk about fair taxation, in line with the objectives of reducing carbon.
the european union cannot fight climate change alone.
our trade policy is a great opportunity to promote our labour, social and environmental standards.
today we send a clear message to meet the expectations of the millions of people who are taking to the streets demanding the fight against climate change.
– mr president, madam president of the commission, vice—president of the commission, the green deal communication is the beginning of a process to put europe on the right track to fight against climate change, but we will succeed only if we change this challenge into an opportunity for our citizens and for our economy.
we led the declaration of a climate emergency and demanded the green deal be placed at the top of the agenda.
first, to trigger change, we need to set the level of ambition in our future climate law and to set impact assessment as the standard.
second, let’s face it, the transition toward a carbon—neutral economy is, and will be, a challenge for many of our economic sectors and workers.
digital technologies are uniquely positioned to provide effective tools for climate-change mitigation and adaptation.
– farmers are the first to feel the impact of climate change.
forestry also plays a crucial role in addressing climate change.
it has significant potential to reduce emissions, sequester carbon and boost economies in a sustainable manner.
with over 40% of the eu’s land area covered by forests, it is clear that the european green deal must include an updated post-2020 eu forest strategy, to put the legislation in line with renewed climate and biodiversity ambitions.
i call on the commission to explain all the concrete initiatives which might be taken in order to protect romanian forests and its biodiversity.
the european commission's communication launching the european green deal reinforces the coherence and relevance of a progressive, inclusive and sustainable agenda to address the climate emergency and to give the european union a leading role in the energy transition and the implementation of the 2030 agenda.
i also stress the importance of the commitment to present a new industrial strategy and a 'climate law' in the first half of 2020, which will make the emission reduction target more ambitious.
the option of applying a carbon tax under wto rules is a sign that the financial leverage of the pact will not jeopardise the financing of cohesion and convergence policies.
the following amendments were tabled: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the cop25 ended with a weak, or rather very weak, voluntary commitment on the part of the countries and a substantial failure to meet expectations, but not only that, but also to take concrete action to combat climate change.
i would remind colleagues that just last wednesday there was an extraordinary plenary on the green new deal to re-launch the european union's leadership on these issues, and i would also remind you that at the last plenary in strasbourg, we voted a resolution to declare a climate emergency.
indeed, over night of 23 june 2016, a group of romanian children who regularly played out on the streets in manchester were called indoors by their parents, who were worried for their safety in the increasingly hostile environment.
let's not waste it, then!
such a measure would therefore undermine our economic environment, our own competitiveness, and would be detrimental to third countries, especially tax havens.
as in climate and other fields, i am happy that the eu takes a leading role.
the health and lives of people should not be coloured by politics and, if we are talking about european values, everything must be done, by everyone, regardless of political colour, to make these things sustainable.
what is still unclear is also the causes that led to them, what daphne caruana galizia was talking about, she was talking about recycling, she was talking about corruption, she was talking about dirty interests, but she was also talking about projects in which there is funding from the european commission, energy projects, electricity pipelines, gas pipelines, projects which are still funded by the european commission, through the cef and precisely through the list of projects of common interest.
the whole transport issue, the tourism issue, the accessible environment issue, the micro-enterprises issue were not covered in this act.
they're being reduced by pesticides, they're being reduced by urbanization, they're being reduced by increased pollution, they're being reduced by temperature changes.
obviously, harmful pesticides have to be curtailed and replaced, but more importantly, i think, is the next cap offers a tremendous opportunity to create biodiversity in every single farm across europe by incentivising farmers to make their farms a haven for bees and pollinators, and i think they would welcome that with open arms.
mr president, as has already been mentioned, the decline of pollinators is a problem in terms of biodiversity but also in terms of crop endangerment.
do we want farmers to meet more ecological criteria?
reducing pesticides is an important step, but it must be based on impact studies that also offer farmers other sustainable practices.
let's make environmental changes responsibly to pollinators and to our farmers.
mr president, the need to protect pollinators and their habitats is indisputable, ladies and gentlemen, as are the benefits of their activity for agricultural productivity and the environment and, of course, obviously, for people.
the green deal is about more than just preventing pollution.
it means taking concrete measures to improve the environment.
and we can't talk about improving the environment without talking about pollinators.
secondly, i can assure you that no farmer in the world who has invested energy, time and money in raising their animals does not send them to export with the thought that they will end up in terrible conditions.
the charter tells us what it means to be in a european – social market economy, protection of our environment, rule of law, democracy and freedom.
we cannot waste a minute on this issue either.
in fact, the members of the council know this, and that is why last week they found a way to go beyond unanimity in an informal way to guarantee carbon neutrality by 2050. i hope that it will not be left there and that the council will formally agree to reduce the areas of decision by unanimity.
we could talk about the climate emergency, gender violence, refugees knocking on europe's door hoping to have a future, child poverty; so many, many issues we need to work on.
climate issues, social issues, migration issues, population movements, democracy issues, the danger to our democracies and sometimes even within the union itself, the rule of law, are new topics.
let us dare, let us dare, ladies and gentlemen, to do so by rejecting the free trade agreement with mercosur, which can only worsen the climate crisis.
so it's very important that the next ten years don't go to waste.
climate change is a threat that is before us and, just hours after the european commission announced the green deal for europe - this ambitious action plan to win the battle against the climate threat - i am pleased to announce that the european council has unanimously reached an agreement on the 2050 climate neutrality target, providing a longer deadline for a european country to implement this agreement, which was unanimously supported.
i would also like to emphasize that the european council has rightly, in my view, stated that this climate transition must be equitable, socially balanced and requires financial means.
we have noted the european investment bank's announcement of very high ambition in terms of climate finance.
we also noted the importance, in our view, of having a strategy that respects the choice of individual member states in their energy mix.
these are some of the elements linked to the first key topic for the next few years, the battle against climate change: turning this challenge, this serious challenge, into an opportunity for more growth, more innovation, and to make europe a leading continent for the green economy.
that is why another important point will be the right balance we have to find between the classic european policies like agriculture and cohesion on the one hand, and on the other hand the new policies and the new challenges we have to face like migration, climate change and innovation.
for others, it is about looking at how contributions to plastic waste can be implemented, and other suggestions, as you know, are also mentioned.
as you have understood, climate will remain a central point on the political agenda of the european council, partly in the context of the process of implementing the european green deal.
we talked about climate change: this is one of the important topics we have to discuss with this important country, and in this regard we will also have the opportunity to work very hard in order to try to be efficient and to try to deliver more in order to try to get more results and to promote also our common interests regarding our strategic relationships with other actors in the world.
the day after i brought the same proposal to the european council and the council has endorsed the goal to make our continent climate neutral by 2050. we have explained to the leaders the core of our proposal and that is to transform our continent’s growth strategy.
humanity took away resources from the environment, and in exchange produced waste and pollution.
in fact, i am convinced that leadership on environmental protection and a sound, a strong industrial base are just two sides of the same coin.
so i’m convinced that this principle, which i call competitive sustainability, must be our principal for the future of the social market economy in europe.
portugal is one of the countries most affected by climate change: loss of coast; hurricanes; floods; horrible forest fires have taken already a very high toll.
it will close its last coal mine already in 2023. it already has a surplus in renewable energies, and together with the dutch government, portugal is now working on green hydrogen energy.
so the question for portugal is how to transform and transport its renewable energy through spain, through france, to the other countries that need this renewable energy.
from the portuguese perspective, the european green deal is about energy infrastructure, is about inter-connectivities and is about an adaptation to climate change.
steel companies are working on carbon free steel production.
it sounds surreal, but it’s carbon free steel production and they are confident they can get there in a matter of a few years.
they want steel production to be sustainable for the environment and they want to remain competitive on the global steel market, and this is the essence of competitive sustainability.
indeed, many member states during the council were asking for the carbon border mechanism.
we’re working on it, so that it can protect our businesses, it can protect the environment and respect wto rules.
merci, charles michel, d’avoir mentionné maintenant l’ets, l’emissions trading system.
if i look at the outcome of the european council last week, the big success of 2050 getting out of the greenhouse gas is a big success, thank you for that.
for example, when it comes to paying the costs of climate change, we are in the medium-term financial perspective.
we welcome the fact that the european council has agreed in its latest conclusions to the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050, despite the resistance of some member states.
the proposal also contains insufficient funding for research policy and for meeting climate objectives.
we therefore call for the inclusion of the golden rule in the stability and growth pact to exclude sustainable investments from european tax rules.
this first european council, which you chaired, brought good news, with the commitment to the climate by 2050. but we feel that in the council there are member states which are still holding their ground and that there is not yet enough determination to enable us to move forward and implement this objective.
we need to give the member states the courage to take this responsibility, to take this step forward, and it is clear that we must turn this climate project into an opportunity and that member states - even if they start from different starting points - must see that this fight against climate change is a real opportunity.
in order to make this very clear, this needs to be reflected in the budgetary perspectives of the multiannual financial framework, which must be a real instrument to be able to deliver on the climate project, but also on the digital transformation and on all the other objectives.
we support the idea of achieving climate neutrality by 2050, but we are talking about an ambitious but complicated target that requires measures adapted to national conditions, with still major differences between the lives of european citizens, depending on the state.
the desire to silence and condemn the public against those who do not let hope die, fight for human rights, environmental protection in russia, try to defend the fundamental values of democracy.
we didn't waste time or keep you waiting for the sake of keeping you waiting.