the entry of automated vehicles into the european market is expected from 2020. however, when they are integrated into road transport, the emphasis should be on making road transport safer, more sustainable, more accessible and taking into account the need to protect the environment and the air.
if we devoted as much time and energy to the fight to save millions of women and mothers persecuted for their faith as we did to the fight for quotas for women on the boards of large companies, which parliament will be debating again tomorrow, the world would be a better, freer and fairer place.
today we are at around 80%, and this is also the result of funds invested in transport infrastructure, social and health, but also in supporting job creation and environmental protection.
the funds will significantly support innovation, digitalisation, energy self-sufficiency, or science and research.
however, the cultivation and handling of hemp must be subject to strict regulations and include safeguards against its spread outside the environment of a certified laboratory.
mr president, i have to express my opinion on this and i cannot understand why the regressive left of this parliament wants us all to waste our time on resolutions that bring confusion, loss of dignity for individuals and fake rights.
the two eu citizens' initiatives that are being registered are the so-called minority safe pack and the initiative cohesion policy for equality of regions and sustainability of regional cultures, which would strengthen the protection of the rights of indigenous minorities in europe.
we are surrounded by countries, where the skills and methodology in conflict resolution or mediation could not only save lives, but also contribute to a safer, more stable and peaceful environment.
i believe that efforts to improve the accessibility of goods and services, and to debarbarianise the physical environment and transport will continue not only here in the european parliament but also, and above all, in the member states.
similarly, the european christian political movement, of which i am president, proposes a sustainable economic model in which relationships are the most valued.
our goal is to create an environment where every human life is accepted as the greatest gift and treasure.
from health and social care to economics and education to the environment and immigration policy.
as the former rapporteur on the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and european fund for sustainable development (efsd), i saw problems in combining both of our external instruments under one umbrella, especially in the case of the eni.
we invest in infrastructure, energy networks, environment and agriculture in the western balkans.
organisations and activists have warned the european commission that state authorities often do not act, do not take sufficient action to protect water, but put the economic interests of companies first, and they do not take the environment into account.
the drinking water directive aims to ensure access to water for every citizen, but has not been revised since 1999. but we know that climate change is changing living conditions, and droughts are the cause of the global migration that we have to face since 2015. that's why we have to act.
on the other hand, we who have abundant, quality water often use it irrationally, waste it, and degrade it.
the statistics on pollution of natural water sources are alarming.
it is transforming the principles of the european pillar of social rights into reality and it’s also taking us a step ahead in the implementation of the united nations sustainable development goals.
rapporteur of the envi committee mr president, consumer safety and environmental protection are the cornerstones of the internal market in goods, which is one of the european union's greatest achievements.
it covers toys, cosmetics and cleaning products, machinery, batteries and accumulators, chemicals, tyres, construction and biocidal products, waste electrical equipment, medical devices and other waste.
rapporteur of the committee on industry, research and energy, requested opinion mr president, online platforms present a huge opportunity for start-ups, small pensions, family or local businesses.
they're threatened not just by the climate crisis, but by developers, by mismanagement, by fire, by deadly chemicals.
we are in a climate emergency, and if we are to limit global warming to one and a half degrees and protect our biodiversity, we really need to protect forest ecosystems.
we cannot forget that forests are not just a source of income, they are a source of life and biodiversity.
when we have a bad economic environment, such as high levels of clientelism, regulations that are not worth working under, or a business environment that is not worth investing in, we politicians must have the expertise and the courage to correct those deficiencies.
the fires are a tragedy, not only for the people directly affected but also, more broadly, for our planet and the climate.
it cannot be overstated how important preserving the amazon rainforest is for effective global climate action.
deforestation, mainly caused by human action and climate change, is a serious threat.
the eu’s leadership in global climate action and the protection of forests are among the priorities of the finnish presidency.
we depend on forests to preserve biodiversity, to limit global warming and to provide people with jobs and livelihoods.
forests will also make an essential contribution to the eu’s aspirations of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. this house discussed the preparations for the un climate action summit this morning and our debate this afternoon is very relevant to this indeed.
on that occasion, the council stressed the importance of the strategy to ensure the coherence and coordination of the eu and member states’ policies affecting forests and to promote further the sustainable management of forests.
the council is working to provide some feedback to the commission’s communication in the form of council conclusions that we hope to adopt in december 2019. given that drivers of deforestation go beyond the forestry sector, our intention is to involve, in this exercise, policy experts from connected areas such as environment, agriculture and trade.
– mr president, today we are facing a global biodiversity and climate crisis which is affecting our lives, it is affecting our economies, and it is also affecting our future.
current forest fires across the globe are releasing great amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, deepening that crisis, not only in the amazon, but also in other parts of the world, such as siberia.
but the amazon is a unique forest, unique for the oxygen that we breathe, unique for the biodiversity that it hosts and unique for the health of our planet.
halting deforestation is key and is essential for three main reasons: to stop biodiversity loss, to address climate change and to achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and our commitments under the paris agreement.
the degradation and loss of forests have major consequences on stability and security, on human rights, the climate, biodiversity and the health and livelihoods of both local communities and the wider planet.
the communication outlines a comprehensive set of actions, including support for sustainable land—use practices.
i was pleased the commissioner mentioned the need to look at policy coherence around the fact that land is being, if you like, brought into production and forest destroyed for agriculture reasons, and we’ve signed a deal, the mercosur trade agreement, and we must make sure that the climate and biodiversity commitments contained in that deal with our mercosur counterparts are honoured.
we should also as europeans put our own hands up and say that we have not always valued forests or biodiversity or done the right thing for the environment, and perhaps in that place of humility we can work better with our colleagues in south america and elsewhere, because in the arctic, in indonesia, in the congo basin, there are fires burning, turf fires which are releasing massive amounts of carbon.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in the amazon rainforest is a very good one.
and that is that the environmental, social and economic impact of this tragedy goes far beyond the amazon basin.
the amazon is the lungs of the earth, producing 20% of our planet's oxygen and harbouring more plant species than any other ecosystem.
and i know this reality very well, because i had the great opportunity to spend a month volunteering with non-governmental organizations that support these indigenous communities, who need to have sustainable alternatives to their livelihoods.
this catastrophe is the result of irresponsible policies, driven by climate change deniers, and we know this all too well.
mr. bolsonaro is promoting a new gold rush, with the support of land grabbers, while ignoring environmental protection.
to avoid hearing the truth, mr. bolsonaro has fired the heads of the brazilian space research institute and the institute of environment and renewable resources.
because, beyond the environmental drama, we social democrats are also very concerned about the fate of indigenous peoples and their lands.
the european union is closely following regional efforts to find solutions and protect both people and the environment.
we call on mr bolsonaro to comply with the international obligations of the paris climate agreement and the environmental clauses set out in the mercosur agreement.
but it is also time for us to admit that we are part of the problem – that not only our contribution to greenhouse gas emissions, but also our own policies, our own trade and our own law enforcement are to blame.
we need to ensure that our energy policies don’t contribute to deforestation, because, also, right now they do.
we are less eager to look back and assess what european projects were truly useful and which ones were just a waste of money.
at the same time we are contributing to a more resilient and sustainable union.
as our presidency motto puts it, ‘sustainable europe – sustainable future’.
the climate crisis, the destruction of biodiversity from the amazon to slovakia's forests, the tsunami of plastic waste, but also the cocktail of toxic substances all around us.
it's not just about what percentage of our money we spend on climate or biodiversity.
we cannot claim to be protecting the climate and nature while at the same time subsidizing its destruction.
europe needs renewable energy, industry that does not pollute the environment, agriculture that protects farmers, nature and animals.
madam president, we should stop talking about the employment rates that have been achieved and we should look at the alarming studies telling us that we are not ready for the challenges of an ageing population and the climate and digital transformations.
social europe will flourish only if our economic policies create a perfect environment for it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is compatible with the environment.
i would like to point out that climate change is primarily responsible for the phenomenon known as the 'cold drop', which is devastating the east of spain, the mediterranean regions - catalonia, the balearic islands, murcia, almeria - my region, the valencian community - but also the inland regions - la rioja, navarre and madrid - and is the consequence of a climate change which we all have a responsibility to combat.
mr president, commissioner, the passage of hurricane lorenzo through the azores caused significant destruction and very heavy damage, destruction of houses, displacement of a number of people, destruction of infrastructure, telecommunications, energy and other infrastructure, destruction of a commercial port essential for the supply of fuel and foodstuffs to the islands of flores and corvo.
mr. president, i am not from spain or portugal, but i have come forward precisely because i know that the impact of climate change and extreme drought and extreme flooding, as we are faced with across the european union, not just the european union, but all the continents, is a matter for all political parties.
prevention is always cheaper and more effective, and that is why i agree that the european union is a leader in the fight against climate change and must force those global players and also use cohesion funds, afforestation and other measures that can mitigate or eliminate some of the impacts of extreme fluctuations.
more importantly, the situation of minorities is getting more and more fragile, given the more hostile political climate in some member states, where minorities are often targeted and scapegoated by xenophobic and extremist political forces.
climate change is a very emotional issue.
what is clear in the public debate, but also in the debate today, is that the question is not whether we need to do something about climate change - some people ask this question - but we are always asking the questions of what and how.
i want to work towards highlighting the positive elements against climate change and promoting the potentials.
only action on climate change that is supported by society will be successful.
an example from agriculture: farmers are frustrated that they are always being put on the spot and that they have negative effects on the climate.
in all this debate, it is often forgotten that agriculture and forestry are the only sectors with great potential to capture carbon.
all our european forests store at least 10% of our european emissions.
that is why we must actively promote and shape carbon avoidance, and above all carbon sequestration.
madam president, tackling the world’s climate emergency must be europe’s defining issue: renewables, energy efficiency, circular economy, agriculture, transport, oceans, climate-proofing trade deals, digitalisation, energy poverty, regional regeneration, sustainable investment, embracing our stakeholders, research experts and our citizens.
we are facing catastrophic climate chaos unless as europe we take immediate and joined-up holistic action, with a just transition that works for every european citizen and leaves no worker, no young woman and no region behind.
we need to deliver an eu-wide climate emergency now.
it’s been long in coming and we kept on ignoring it, but now it’s here, both in climate as well as in biodiversity.
just today we had to object to protect the bees, to protect the biodiversity, to what our governments and the member states have been doing.
this house has been elected this year with a very strong mandate to act on climate and biodiversity.
what we need now is to hold the governments – the member states – accountable, because on one hand, we say that we act on the climate, we’re going to phase out coal, and on the other hand, we actually use public money to export coal-fired power plants to third countries.
the european union cannot afford to waste this potential.
mr president, i would also like to begin my speech with a heartfelt remembrance of my friend paco gambús, who, in addition to being a great parliamentarian and a great person, was a person very committed to the environment, who did an excellent job in the environment committee when he was a parliamentarian in this house.
i am afraid that we will go on thursday to declare a climate emergency here in the european parliament - which will be great news - but that we will go back to the cop empty-handed.
without the 2050 goal of carbon neutrality set, with a still-flimsy interim goal and with a lot of reforms to be done: withdraw coal subsidies, reform the cap to align it with paris, let the european central bank continue to buy coal-related assets - a lot of things to be done.
so, that we're declaring a climate emergency on thursday is great news, but now it's time to take action to respond to all those young people who are calling from the streets for us to take this issue seriously.
mr president, science demands decisive political responses in the fight against climate change.
in europe, it is important to increase our ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while preserving our way of life in the best possible way.
we are prepared to continue to lead global climate action, but we need strong commitments from around the world.
mr. chairman, the climate emergency is here, whether we like it or not.
environmental justice is something that has to happen in our efforts to save the climate.
mr president, of course most of us are committed to the goal of fighting climate change.
however, in order to achieve these objectives, in particular with regard to achieving greenhouse gas neutrality by 2050, we need to have a certain flexibility in the use of the instruments with which we will achieve this objective.
we have to respect the ability of each country to choose its energy mix, and i think, and many of us think, that it has to include gas, at least in the medium term, and nuclear as well.
nuclear, of course, is one of the sources that emits no emissions, but of course we can ask about safety and sustainability.
i therefore oppose and i would appeal to you to amend the article or paragraph that speaks of nuclear as an economically and environmentally unsustainable instrument and energy source.
according to many, promises that there would be no price increases, no redundancies, and no divestment of strategic industries and energy have not been fulfilled.
ec is expected to deliver good results in traditional areas as cohesion policy, new priorities as digital market, artificial intelligence and fighting climate change, but especially to protect social rights.
the countries dependent in energy resourcing on fossil fuels and nuclear will need to get substantial financial assistance from the eu if they want to be successful in satisfying the climate goals.
i think we can and must invest more resources and energy in developing our own security resources if we are to remain the leading continent of democracy.
we already have an association agreement with some, some are just good business partners, but we must make sure that we have a deep relationship with all of them, and that it is beneficial for us in the fields of energy, transport, student exchanges and culture.
i am proud to be part of a european union that is openly committed to climate neutrality, biodiversity protection, green policies and active solutions.
president, commissioner, minister, the dramatic decline of pollinators such as bees, bumblebees and butterflies is a hallmark of the way we treat and destroy our environment.
as in the case of climate change, scientific facts are being called into question.
in fact, in the last few decades we have seen a decline in the use of the highest risk pesticides, and thanks to the greening measures of the cap, which have been, among other things, recently strengthened in the omnibus regulation, we have promoted the use of honey plants and today in the union over 10% of arable land is dedicated to the protection of biodiversity.
european farmers must be encouraged to take a further step forward in the provision of environmental services that protect the health of pollinators, for the benefit of the whole community.
mr president, our future is not only threatened by the climate crisis, it is also threatened by the biodiversity crisis.
there's climate change, there's invasive species, but first of all there's agricultural policy and the continued use of dangerous pesticides that are contributing to the decline of pollinators.
we need a change, a change that will bring about an agricultural policy that helps to protect biodiversity, the bees, but also helps farmers in this endeavour, support for science so that we have enough knowledge about where we have a problem, and a transparent and accountable policy from the commission that will listen to scientists and not just selectively pick what is right.
there are several reasons for the decline in pollinators, but the most serious are land-use change and chemical pollution.
mr president, yes, we all agree that europe's biodiversity, its ecosystems and, of course, our food security in the long term, are all at risk.