i therefore welcome the pest report which calls for a systematic review of all studies on the effects of glyphosate on human health and the environment, which will provide the basis for our further action.
the use of chemical pesticides in food preparation and production damages air, water and soil, as well as biodiversity and human health.
we have adopted the special report of the committee, today we adopt the report on the sustainable use of pesticides.
as in human medicine, the goal is clear: fewer pesticides, fewer aggressive ones that can harm health, the environment, or even animals.
the use of pesticides in agriculture will certainly continue for some time, and it is therefore right to support precision farming methods, where we can detect disease and pests with precise sensors, and reduce the environmental impact with precise applications, while, as i have already said, we should continue to support measures in future agricultural policy that move agriculture towards integrated production and organic production.
there are different opinions or different views in this report before you, but what they have in common is that there is still a lot of things to be done, that there is still a lot of room for improvement, from the issues of corruption, of course, to organized crime, to reforms in the areas of justice, economy, social security, the treatment of minorities, to environmental challenges, to media freedom and education.
the partnership provides a legal framework for stronger and broader cooperation, focusing on the themes of environmental protection, international stability, justice, security and development.
our systems, from energy to transportation to health care to bank deposits to, ultimately, elections, and ultimately, individuals, are increasingly vulnerable.
sixteen of them are enshrined here, and many more can be enshrined by member states, if they so deem it, and ensure that a sustainable food supply chain will prevail in the future.
a lot of things have been left open, particularly with the built environment, but also with some other things that are important.
it is high time to link the economy with environmental protection and to protect workers where jobs are disappearing.
at european union level, more attention should also be paid to demographic change and to providing a family-friendly environment.
sustainable development cannot be achieved without greater attention to health, and both rapporteurs, one of whom is a doctor, spoke of the need for integrity.
health is not just an aspect or a sector, it is a dimension that touches on many of the sub-goals of our sustainable development strategy.
we can't be the leading force for sustainable development in a world with more cancer, with more diabetes, with more other diseases that we know the statistics for.
i strongly support all efforts to green, innovative new jobs, to the transition to energy efficiency.
e-health, decentralized energy, all of these are opportunities that we bring together in this set of smart village initiatives.
they are also following all other renewable energy policies, digitisation, and i am convinced that this is a move in the right direction.
i would like to replace the words ‘the fight against climate change’ with the words ‘tackling climate change’, in agreement with the two co-rapporteurs.
the new regulation will be a huge step towards opening the single market to innovative products, made out of organic by—products and recoverable waste.
of course these products must be produced under strict conditions to ensure they are safe for our health and the environment.
they have an enormous potential to make european agriculture more efficient and sustainable and help create jobs and opportunities for emerging businesses in the eu.
at the same time this regulation provides safeguards to protect public health and the environment.
we strongly believe that it will be a win—win—win: a win for the eu fertilisers industry, which will benefit from easier access to the single market for innovative products and a more diverse range of cost—competitive raw materials; a win for farmers, who can choose from an increased diversity of fertilisers, who can supply their own raw material to fertiliser manufacturers and who will be in a much better position to protect their soil from toxic contaminants; and, most importantly, a win for the health and well—being of eu citizens and our natural environment, as the risk of food and water contamination with toxic substances will decrease.
in parallel, under a different work stream, the commission is working to ensure an integrated and more sustainable management of nutrients to reduce inefficiencies and avoid nutrients pollution, which can affect human health and the environment.
the processing of manure offers possibilities for more efficient use of nutrients, from the agricultural as well as from the environmental point of view.
this is why, via its joint research centre, the commission launched a project in 2017. it includes literature review, modelling and experimental work to define the conditions under which replacing chemical nitrogen containing chemical fertilisers by processed manure in agriculture applications does not entail additional environmental risks.
we count on you today to take an important step in building a circular economy for the eu fertilising products industry and ensuring that these products are safe for our health and the environment.
this is also another important concrete step towards implementing the un sustainable development goals and building a sustainable european future, which has become more urgent than ever.
but to do this, and to apply the rule to the whole of europe, we needed this regulation, which sets out the parameters that also ensure that the environmental impact of such organic fertilisers is of high quality.
i mean, we've made a good step for the environment, for agriculture, for the circular economy, so this proposal will have my support.
there's a chapter in the document called "we need more energy".
the international atomic energy agency, which remains the point of reference to assess iran’s compliance with its nuclear commitments under the deal, has confirmed, after having confirmed for many years iran’s full compliance, that iran has now increased its stockpile of low-enriched uranium and has enriched uranium beyond the limits set in the joint comprehensive plan of action.
in the context of today's debate on the persian gulf, i would like to stress that this is a crisis which, due to the scale and depth of its consequences, such as the increase in tensions between the great powers, the destabilisation of energy markets and new waves of refugees, can affect not only the region but also international peace and stability and, in particular, the security of the european union and its member states.
at an incalculable cost, but which has caused devastation to a protected environment, absolutely precious natural sites.
if the european union is serious about leading the global effort to combat climate change, it should certainly approve the eu-mercosur agreement.
the protection of the amazon rainforest is a matter for us all, as well as for other forest areas in africa, the americas, asia and oceania, as it contributes to several of the sustainable development goals set by the united nations.
the eu-mercosur agreement is an opportunity for all those involved, not only in trade but above all in environmental matters, to meet ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i have been hearing for some time now how the european union must set an example in tackling climate change and how it is already playing a leading role in this.
environmental protection is a global issue and everyone must be involved.
climate and nature are changing, and it's high time that we change, too.
with all due respect for the work of the european court of justice, i believe that we should not be guided by the court's interpretations, especially in this case, which, instead of bringing legal clarity, is creating legal chaos in many member states in areas related to the protection of the health and life of citizens and the environment.
the fact is that climate change is making the consequences of natural disasters more severe and more widespread, and the work of volunteer firefighters and other volunteers in crisis response systems more demanding and more responsible.
the agricultural sector only requires the same energy as when other industrial sectors are affected.
we must look at the possibility of a transitional period and solve the problem with energy.
unfortunately, the speech of the candidate for vice-president of the commission and the commissioner responsible for the human economy also shows that the future european commission has, at declaratory level, recognised the need for the economy to adapt to climate change, but is unwilling or unable to recognise the fundamental incompatibilities between the concept of sustainable growth and sustainable development and the social union, which together with the economic union should equally constitute a european economy for people.
the union needs a more coordinated approach to rescuing and disembarking refugees and migrants and a fair and sustainable mechanism for the distribution of those rescued.
the effectiveness and readiness that can be achieved in these emergency responses is also an incentive for us to include long-term investment in health, education, poverty reduction and sustainable development.
of course in the drc and in the neighbouring countries, and as you know – this is one of my favourite expressions – we have to see stronger humanitarian—development nexus, which needs to be put in place in order to see sustainable health systems in these countries.
by 2030, climate change will push an additional 100 million people into poverty, and by 2050, agricultural productivity will be 5 to 30 percent lower.
climate change, in addition to increasingly dry areas and melting glaciers, is also directly affecting the social and environmental situation in which we find ourselves.
it is high time to deal with these changes in a more concrete, if you will, more forceful way, but also to pay particular attention to ensuring that the transition to exclusively renewable sources does not affect europe's competitiveness and its population.
the resolution we are discussing today is a strong political message from the union ahead of the united nations climate summit in madrid.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy security for the european union must be a priority.
the energy system of the countries of the european union is very much dependent on the import of natural gas and oil, we all know that.
however, we have energy resources in the european union.
the black sea is one of the major stakes in the global competition for energy resources.
the black sea can be an opportunity for the european union's energy security.
work on greater integration for the benefit of all people and human rights, a european strategy for sustainable development, joint technological progress and own infrastructure is important.
indeed, the 20 deliverables that we are implementing within the eastern partnership focus on the issues our people care the most about – jobs, energy security, education, strong civil society, independent media – things that are indeed on top of our citizens’ agendas.
we have also achieved good progress in trade, energy, connectivity or the digital sphere.
our eastern partners must be given a real partnership, therefore, to be included into our initiatives on climate, digitalisation, artificial intelligence, connectivity, energy and social inclusion programmes and priorities.
our eastern neighbours still face serious challenges: climate change, energy poverty, independent management of resources, the creation of good jobs and the overcoming of past conflicts, to name a few, but above all: the democratization of these societies.
the european union, by launching the eastern partnership in 2009, sought to improve relations with countries with which it shares strong energy and therefore security interests, while strengthening general, multilateral and regional cooperation.
the new european commission should have as one of its priorities working towards finding solutions to these frozen, or not so frozen, conflicts, so that the eastern partnership countries can focus their energy on the much-needed reforms and development.
indeed, while the entire middle east is on fire, the decades-old israeli-palestinian conflict is being pushed into the background as a non-priority, a status quo that is ultimately "sustainable".
so, regional tensions are still running high, and this is putting even more importance and pressure on those in the region and beyond the region who are trying to calm down the situation and find sustainable outcomes to the current dynamics.
it allows countries on different continents to come together to address or improve common issues such as human rights, democracy, equality, peace and security, climate, the environment and more.
the drafting of the new agreement is based on the existing one, while the resolution calls for equal representation of african, caribbean and pacific countries and eu countries, greater involvement of civil society, political dialogue and sustainable development.
the first formal dialogue we launched with cuba under the new agreement was precisely on human rights, because respect for fundamental freedoms and for civil society is essential for us and is essential to us also because it can only be with the full respect of the space for civil society and human rights that economic development can be sustainable.
but we also have to try to help restore the political climate and the social climate in haiti, which is one of the worst on the planet.
as the only directly elected eu body, the european parliament will have to take a strong stance in its legislative, supervisory and budgetary powers under the green deal, as it is directly accountable to more than 500 million european voters and citizens, and in particular to the future generation of voters' beneficiaries, who have clearly expressed their demands for climate action on the streets of european cities over the past year.
the european green deal, especially in the light of achieving the 2050 climate targets, is not a choice but a necessity.
this process of compromise must not, however, be to the detriment of the most vulnerable, both communities and individuals, in countries where objective factors prevent them from being on an equal footing in this 'race' to a zero-carbon future.
mr. president, bees and other pollinators are vital to life on earth and one of the main indicators of the health of our environment.
they are not only essential for pollinating most of our food, but also for the quality of the food itself, biodiversity, pest control, soil and water quality.
the commission and the member states should set out biodiversity and pesticide use reduction measures in strategic plans and increase funding to support a citizen science project on pollinator registration and monitoring.
the eu-mercosur free trade agreement gives concrete reasons for concern about effective and consistent compliance with both international labour law (some mercosur members are not signatories to certain core ilo conventions) and climate and environmental standards.
if the european parliament recently agreed to the existence of an emergency climate and environmental situation, it is unacceptable to expect that this very institution will not be particularly vigilant in concluding trade agreements with an organisation of which brazil is also a member, whose approach to environmental policy is clearly at odds with the eu's ambitions and plans in this area.
the eu is expected to make a strong effort to ensure that economic and social rights, the principle of sustainability, environmental standards and climate objectives are respected during the design (negotiation), implementation and enforcement of trade agreements.
the eu has the opportunity to use its position and power in international trade as an additional lever to promote agreements that take account of the need to adapt the market to people and the environment.