instead of finding practical, sustainable solutions, it has been more important for you to play nice and be politically correct.
we wanted, with the help of this fund, to achieve the transformation of our society into a sustainable society, something to which we committed ourselves by signing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
are you, as pro-european, willing to take a stand, to put it on the agenda of the council, to talk to the people of europe and of spain during the election campaign about that and to engage in a constructive dialogue – a pro-european, pro-democracy dialogue – or are you going to ignore it and risk letting a symbol of peace, a reconciliation in europe which is so dear to us all, to become a symbol of waste?
by doing this, member states will increase the liquidity flow in businesses and help to fulfil their obligations, and we will manage to make the business climate in europe better than it is today.
this resolution is based on current and unacceptable events in sudan, but if we look up and think a little more about the situation in sudan, it is impossible for me as a green to not also see how the climate impact and its consequences have had a devastating impact on development since a few decades ago.
with this regulation we ensure that we can keep up with the rapid evaluation of the top—level domain name market and the dynamics of the digital landscape that require a future—proof and flexible regulatory environment.
– mr president, honourable members, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr fredrick federley, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for the political agreement reached by the co—legislators on 5 december and endorsed by the committee on industry, research and energy on 14 january.
this final text not only modernises the .eu legal framework but also promotes the rule of law in the online environment and aims to strengthen the multi—stakeholder approach in line with the eu approach on internet governance.
your report makes the important point that markets should also deliver for our environment.
we agree and the commission’s decision to approve the bayer—monsanto merger was taken only after the companies committed to sell bayer’s seed and pesticide business to a new rival so that farmers keep a choice of supplier, and competition drives the businesses to deliver novel products that are safer for the environment.
within the boundaries of the treaty, we will make markets work for our climate and for our environment.
we must have the rule of law and fair competition, and that also means we need to consider the energy union and big, dominant operators such as gazprom.
if an energy politician, for example, listens only to the gas lobby and never to the environmental movement, the voters should know that.
it's a waste of skills.
we have a responsibility to manage these fish stocks in a sustainable way for the marine ecosystem, but also for future generations so that they can eat fish too.
it is therefore regrettable that the management plan for western waters is contrary to the sustainable management of our fish stocks.
this is one of a series of management plans that consistently go against the common fisheries policy rules adopted in 2013. the plan allows fishing above sustainable levels.
it is in our hands to regulate the environment, speaking about multinationals and so on, and it’s about transparency.
through the non-discriminatory outreach of these funds, we can hopefully eradicate poverty, one of the greatest challenges in the eu today, and achieve the sdgs, thereby making our society a sustainable one.
climate change is the greatest threat to us humans on earth, and not far behind is the nuclear threat.
if countries can agree on both budgets and rules, we can deal with both climate change and peace.
the fall of the eu will not be the result of a financial crisis, environmental degradation or war.
we need to avoid double victimisation and create a climate of trust and i’m also glad that mediation is given due weight.
the best part of gsp, though, is the gsp+, which grants additional preferences to those countries that strive a little more and try to behave better by implementing, ratifying and making a reality of 27 international conventions on everything from governance to environment and labour rights.
it is a tool to extra-incentivise countries, to make sure that they grow and develop in a way that is sustainable and from which all their citizens can benefit.
if we place too many requirements – on, for example, labour rights or environmental protection – on these countries they could risk facing the entire eu tariff wall, and that would harm the poorest.
it is also contributing to furthering human rights and sustainable development.
it is well known that the persian regime in iran does not respect human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of association, environmental commitment, which are self-evident to us but which can become synonymous with torture and the death penalty.
the purpose of the time change was to save energy.
we're not saving energy.
it doesn't save any energy.
this is about removing the time shift that doesn't provide the energy saving effect that we thought about a long time ago.
environmental goals are obviously good to have.
but we must also be careful to ensure that environmental objectives are realistic, that is, that there is always a realistic chance for manufacturers to develop the technology.
we must therefore also ensure that there are alternatives to renewable fuels, i.e.
we know how important it is to create the right conditions for a viable and more sustainable automotive industry, both today and in the future.
that is precisely why we swedish social democrats, both here in the european parliament and through our government in the council, have pushed for such high climate ambitions, to reduce car emissions more than today.
we would have liked to see emissions fall even further, but this is an important step along the way, which we are voting on now.
it is thanks to the socialist group and our rapporteur, mrs miriam dalli, and her hard work and skill that we now have these new rules which will benefit both the climate and human health.
we social democrats will stand up for this tomorrow and vote in favour of the stricter emission standards, both for the sake of the climate, for the sake of human health and for an industry that is strong for the future.
a sustainable europe is needed.
several have touched upon the climate and environment.
we need to turn the climate, the combat against climate change, from a burden into an opportunity, because this will provide the new jobs.
so we’re going to create new jobs and more wealth and combat climate change, and that’s why we also need to talk to people to show them that this is not a burden.
it was not sustainable.
now, we need to stick to that legislation and, at the same, time work with this common european legislation so that, if we have that in place, all the member states can also change their national legislation, and then we will have sustainable legislation for all of us.
if that works, if we get that in place, we will have a sustainable migration policy.
mr vilimsky, the climate: we need to be active, but the reactor in slovakia, i cannot comment on the slovak reactor.
every member state needs to decide by themselves what kind of energy mix they will use.
there is an important european perspective also given the energy union, but we not have any mandate – the different member states decide on their own what kind of energy mix they want.
mr president, first of all, i think it’s quite obvious that the russian energy policy is a part of its powerful reaction against europe.
of course we need to face up to this challenge, but we don’t even need to think about those challenges in order to see that it is quite natural that we shall have the same rules for the dominant actors on the internal market for energy as well as for the smaller actors.
how to decouple production from distribution as for all other actors on the european energy market?
i would like to underline that here lies an opportunity to make europe stronger: a free society open for all individuals, strong in a global environment that needs cooperation.
we have just listened to greta thunberg and heard what we have to do here in europe to reduce our emissions.
however, i think we need to talk about what we are going to do also for all those who are suffering from the consequences of our emissions those in other parts of the world.
our generation's equivalent is to use science to help solve the climate problem.
the initiatives that horizon europe brings make us better equipped to meet the global climate challenges we face.
if the budget negotiations go our way, horizon europe will guarantee at least €420 billion in investment in renewable energy, sustainable mobility and green industries.
according to the same organization, the changing climate and the increase in natural disasters caused by climate change will lead to large population movements.
we usually estimate that by 2050, there will be 200 to 250 million climate refugees, and that's in addition to the 600 million affected by sea level rise.
what we need to do instead is to pay for massive efforts to prevent involuntary migration, both conflict-related and climate-related or poverty-related.
the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council is a very important achievement and it marks the completion of a comprehensive legislative framework on climate and clean energy for 2030. a swift agreement on this regulation has been possible thanks to the constructive efforts and spirit of compromise of the negotiators from both institutions.
its most important elements are that for new heavy—duty vehicles the european union fleet-wide average co2 emissions will have to be 15% lower in 2025 and 30% lower in 2030, compared to the reference period, which covers july 2019 to june 2020. the targets cover the largest vehicles, which account for about 17% of the total co2 emissions of the heavy—duty sector, and a technology-neutral incentive system will stimulate manufacturers to deploy zero and low—emission vehicles in the next decade, starting in 2019 with super credits and followed by a benchmark system from 2025 onwards.
this new legislation completes the picture required to put the road transport sector on a clear pathway towards clean mobility and a broader transition to a climate—neutral economy.
without action, emissions from heavy—duty vehicles would represent almost 25% of road transport emissions, which are set to increase by almost 10% by 2030 compared to 2010. with the targets agreed and with the post—2020 targets for cars and vans, greenhouse gas emissions from road transport will be reduced by 24% by 2030 compared to 2005. this will help member states to reach the binding targets under the effort sharing regulation and the european union to deliver its commitments under the paris agreement.
they concern the continuous development of the vehicle energy consumption calculation tool (vecto) simulation tool and the transposition of a specific provision related to the maximum authorised weight of zero—emission heavy—duty vehicles.
many years of work on truck emissions is now coming to an end for me, for the committee, for this election.
the new emissions rules we are voting on tomorrow after many, long and difficult negotiations are, after all, very good.
they're bringing us closer to transportation without harming our environment.
however, it has been a privilege to represent sweden and the moderates here in the european parliament, a privilege to make a difference, a privilege to make a difference for free trade that lifts people out of poverty and makes europe richer, a privilege to make a difference for the environment through a policy that puts people at the centre and that makes other parts of the world want to follow us and a privilege to make a difference for sweden, for europe.
we have the climate crisis.
i'll tell you this, in two words: we want a europe that is solid and supportive, that no longer turns its back on those who are left behind, but that has the courage to use all the flexibility provided for in the stability pact for growth and employment, that finally points to a new model of development, that unambiguously puts the environmental question not as a limit - as we have seen too many times here - but as an opportunity that does not stop but fuels growth because it makes it sustainable, and in this way you would provide the pretext for those who have said, here, even today, that you are elusive on this point.
i must also say that i think it is a little embarrassing to vote against the first woman to become president of the commission and also against a person who could manage to gather a majority for a progressive climate policy in europe.
it is not just about the climate, but also about fighting cross-border crime.
we look very much forward to the finnish presidency with a clear agenda to safeguard the rule of law, increase competitiveness and also with increased climate ambitions.
the events of the summer with the rescue boat in italy show that europe still lacks a long-term and sustainable migration policy.
thirdly: instead, we must move towards a policy of rapid asylum applications so that we can also develop a sustainable migration policy in the future.
however, increased emissions from industry and fossil fuel vehicle fleets have caused the premature deaths of 400 000 people in europe each year in recent years.
although global trends are decreasing, forest areas in the union continue to grow and have increased by around 11 million hectares by 2010. i believe that everyone in this room agrees on the vital importance of forests in conserving nature and biodiversity, in mitigating the effects of climate change and in fighting to save individual regions.
madam president, forestry strategy, if implemented properly, should be good for the environment, it should be good for local communities and it should be good for rural economies.
now that is not the fault of the european institutions, but the commitment that i would like from you, commissioner, and the commission this evening is that the eu won’t fund that policy and the strategy that has seen widespread planting of non-indigenous sitka spruce, in some cases actually on peat bogland, whereby the actual planting of forests is doing more environmental damage than if they were not planted in the first place.
we all agree that forests play a key role in climate change.
the debate on the commission statement on the preparation of the un climate action and sustainable development goals summit in new york (2019/2809 ((rsp)) will follow.
– mr president, it is a pleasure to be here this morning as we prepare for the forthcoming climate action and sustainable development goals summits in new york.
regarding the climate action summit, the commission adopted on 11 september a communication to the european parliament and the council in preparation for the summit, to present the european union’s impressive track record on climate policy and our commitment to accelerated climate ambition.
first, the solid progress made on the preparation and finalisation of our long-term strategy for climate neutrality by 2050. second, the over-delivery of our nationally determined contribution (ndc) through a comprehensive body of detailed laws and measures.
last june a large majority of european leaders supported the commission proposals to make europe climate neutral by 2050 – a project that means radical transformation of our economy and our society.
the european union has been increasing its climate ambition since 1990 and will continue to do so.
the european union reduced its emissions by 22% between 1990 and 2017, while our gdp grew by 58%.
the adoption of a 2050 objective, together with the governance mechanisms that we have put in place, will ensure that we will continue this acceleration, on a fast track but in a gradual and manageable manner, towards climate neutrality.
when fully implemented, we estimate that the measures for 2030 will enable the european union to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 45% compared to 1990 levels, which goes further than the european union’s stated objective in its nationally determined contribution, to cut emissions by at least 40% by 2030. delivering on the 2030 targets will have benefits well beyond 2030. it will ensure the european union is also going in the right direction towards 2050. at the same time, the european union is already using its budget to ensure that investments are aligned and actively contributing to the climate goals – we have a 20% climate mainstreaming target in the current european union budget, amounting to around eur 200 billion of funds over the 2014-2020 period to support the low carbon transition.
in the multiannual financial framework for 2021-2027 that is being discussed in parliament and in the council, the commission has proposed that 25% of the whole budget, or an expected eur 320 billion, will be specifically climate-relevant, and the rest will be compatible with our climate objectives.
the climate and energy transition towards climate neutrality begins with a massive investment challenge, one that we must meet already in the coming years: investment in a clean energy system; in clean industry and clean mobility; in maintaining and restoring our land, to make sure that it not only continues to provide us with food, feed and fibres, but also helps us absorb the greenhouse gas emissions we will not be able to eliminate.
to attract enough private investment, the european union is already putting in place the conditions and incentives for investors to fund projects aligned with the climate goals, such as the european union action plan on financing sustainable growth and the associated legislative package.
nationally determined contributions will be at the core of our support, especially in critical sectors such as renewable energy and energy efficiency, urban development or agriculture and forests.
not only is the european union the world’s leading donor of development assistance with eur 74.4 billion in 2018, it is also the world’s largest climate finance donor, providing over 40% of the world’s public climate finance.
the european union remains fully committed to continuing to scale up the mobilisation of international climate finance, including through enhanced ambition by its investment facilities and the european investment bank.
likewise, the european union’s array of legally binding trade and cooperation agreements will continue to include robust provisions to promote climate action and implement the paris agreement.
the rapidly changing climate is a global problem and it calls for global responsibility.
no matter how much we have done so far, and how much we have strengthened our ambition and speeded up our efforts in these past few years – the years in which i have had the honour of being in charge of climate action and energy policy, and therefore part of this effort – the summit in new york can only conclude that more is needed.
my expectation is that we will continue to take further bold actions, building on our solid and significant achievements so far, and that we will develop, in a not too distant future, the model for a climate-neutral, modern, competitive and prosperous european economy and society.
this must also be a model that our partners in the rest of the world will want to emulate, and that will therefore enable us collectively to avert the climate disasters that would await us otherwise.
let me turn now to the sustainable development goals summit (sdg summit).
the commission welcomes that heads of state and government will, with all relevant stakeholders, for the first time have the opportunity to review progress in the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the 17 sustainable development goals.
the political declaration includes in particular the commitment to: maintain the integrity of the 2030 agenda and to persevere on the 2020 targets; more concrete language on climate change, including on the synergies between implementation of the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement; more concrete language on broader environmental protection including new references to marine ecosystems and sustainable consumption and production.
the commission supports the key messages in the global sustainable development report, notably: despite significant action underway across the world, the current rate of progress is not adequate to reach the sdgs; some trends even remain negative, including rising inequalities, global warming, biodiversity loss and increasing waste from human activity; and accelerated action is required, as dynamics show that some countries seem to distance themselves from the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement.
let me conclude here by thanking you for your continuing strong support for european union climate action, which enabled us to tell this positive story on the international stage and to encourage our international partners to enhance global climate ambition and real action.
i am very conscious when i start with the sustainable development goals that there are four of them, in particular, where we are actually going backwards, for example, sustainable development goal 2 on hunger.
on biodiversity and climate, we are also not doing or putting into place actions which will allow us to meet these objectives.
let me just mention again – on the hunger issue, because it is a very real problem and a challenge for us all to have policy coherence both in europe and, indeed, globally – the lancet report, which many of us are familiar with, talked about sustainable intensification.
on climate, we know that there are huge problems looming, and the younger generation are pushing us really forward to do more, but we also have to challenge ourselves and the younger generation to make sure we are ready for the changes in consumption and production patterns that will be required to meet all of these very noble but attainable objectives.
– mr president, timing is everything and the climate action summit and the sustainable development goals summit are critical in helping us address the global climate emergency we are facing.
the european union needs to agree on a climate plan that provides an overall level of ambition, ensuring that the required transition takes place and providing the necessary financial means, together with the horizontal policies that need to be set.
the european union has the potential and the duty to act ambitiously before 2030 and to adopt and implement a vision for a future climate-neutral and fossil-fuel-free environment.
climate change is a global challenge and solutions need to be global too, as the commissioner himself indicated.
but the european union needs to continue in its leadership role, whilst providing support to the most vulnerable countries that are mostly affected by climate change.
it is only through eu leadership that we can speed up global action on the sustainable development goals and climate change goals and the eu should not shy away from its responsibilities.
mr president, commissioner, climate change is indeed already proven not a matter of ideology, but of survival.
that is why the call and appeal of the un secretary-general for a climate action summit and a sustainable development goals summit next week - the most important un week - is absolutely key.
also at a time like this year, where we've seen how climate devastation in the form of drought, fires, floods have been in the news every day.
it has a clear commitment to climate neutral action by 2050. in this house, the president-designate of the commission recently announced the first european climate law, a great political ambition, accompanied also by a great ambition for financing, noting that the european investment bank must become partly a climate bank.
commissioner, i know this is probably going to be one of your last plenaries, but to be very honest, you must have noticed that your speaking notes on climate action of europe have not changed that much over the last two years.
they have always referred to the fact that we have a 2030 package in place, that we are trying to get to carbon neutrality but still have not achieved it, and that we’re the only continent achieving something.
i think that there is a bit of change with the new commission potentially, but i think it’s also very important that we do want to know what exactly they are going to say, what exactly are they going to do in that climate law?
there will maybe be a climate law and then there will be a long set of deliberations on what to do after that.
we must go to the new york summit with concrete proposals, say 'stop' to subsidies for fossil fuels and abandon them altogether in the medium term, propose to redesign taxation, because it is simply absurd to treat goods in the same way which have different production processes and impacts on the environment and the climate.
and we must go on to say that we do not need tariffs to defend european, american or chinese products but rather we need a fiscal levy with transparent criteria and environmental objectives, all of which is consistent with the idea of open markets and competition, to really reward those who innovate.
the european union was the driving force at the un when the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdg) goals were shaped, and that is something to be proud of, but now it’s time for more action and more progress, especially on all sdg goals.
the challenges we face: climate, economy, social issues, migration, require more cooperation, not less cooperation.
long-term efforts are needed to enhance the resilience of our democratic societies since disinformation and hybrid threats in general are a permanent part of our security environment.
since the conclusions the council adopted in march on securing free and fair european elections, which welcomed the commission electoral package and the joint action plan against disinformation, much has been done both by the eu institutions and in individual member states: the organisation of regular meetings of the european election cooperation network, in which member states share expertise and good practice and jointly identify threats; the setting up of the rapid alert system whereby national contact points in member states rapidly share information on disinformation campaigns; the enhancement of strategic communication on european values and policies; the strengthening of the european media ecosystem by facilitating networks of independent fact-checkers; the promotion of media and digital literacy and awareness-raising activities to protect the integrity of the electoral process, together with the private sector and civil society; the assessment of cyber-threats in the electoral context and of the measures to address them and preserve the integrity of the electoral system; the monitoring, as already mentioned, of the implementation by social media platforms of the code of practice; and, finally, cooperation with the relevant international actors.
domestic and foreign actors can exploit this to manipulate policy, societal debates and behaviour in areas such as climate change, migration, public security, health and finance.
brazil's president, bolsonaro, has shown that he will not take the climate challenge and the deforestation of the amazon seriously on his own.
do we really want to take responsibility for the climate?
but it also gives us a very unique opportunity to both pressure and incentivize the brazilian government to take climate responsibility.
modern trade agreements with clear sustainability requirements are one of the best and most effective tools we have.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change must be undertaken on a global scale, which implies coordinated action.
sustainability should be the key word, which also means solidarity.
the european union, in addition to being an example, must seek prevention - and that is the key - and must collaborate, must cooperate, by financing programmes, by financing funds so that in the amazon and in other forests, there is respect for human rights, for sustainability, which is a cause that concerns us all.
mr president, the forest fires have also served as a reminder of the sustainability chapter of the mercosur agreement and the importance of the paris climate agreement, which is also part of the agreement.
we must ensure that the principles of sustainable development and the standards agreed on in mercosur are respected in the implementation of the agreement.
it's because of sustainable forest management and the versatile use of wood.
we can be very proud that our member states are managing their forests in a good and sustainable way.
it's one of the most absolutely sensitive parts of the entire climate system on our planet.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amazon is burning, and if the land that produces 20% of the oxygen we breathe is burning, so is an immense heritage of cultures, peoples and biodiversity.
deforestation, like fires, is certainly caused by men, by leaders who endorse the exploitation of resources and people, an exploitation based on an old and wrong idea of capitalism, without sustainability that promotes the well-being of all.
and i ask myself, why should we not have the courage to revise the mercosur agreement to include stricter criteria of environmental sustainability?
the bolsonaro government, instead of continuing the sustainable management plan that has been in place since 2014, has encouraged the overexploitation of land and turned a blind eye to the disaster.
we need a comprehensive proposal for sustainable forest management and tools to promote it outside the european union.
against the backdrop of unprecedented climate change and deforestation at levels we have not seen before, the earth’s lungs are quickly filling with smoke.
we have now moved from a climate emergency to a climate catastrophe, and the world deserves a better response than schoolyard political sniping games on twitter.
blocking the free trade agreement will not put out any fires in the amazon or improve the climate.
on the contrary, the mercosur agreement commits brazil and the other countries to respect and implement the paris agreement and to work towards sustainable forestry.
then we create sustainable development and prosperity through more work, through higher growth that makes both goods and services cheaper.
we need to focus more on climate, which is the common destiny of our time, and we cannot back down as humanitarian actors as the world's crises increase and could force even more people to flee.
and finally, there are only 10 years left until we all have to reach the un's sustainability goals.
not only with record loans, but also with the opening of the market, the introduction of visa-free travel, but also with expert advice on the most pressing issues, such as judicial reform, the fight against corruption, energy or other areas.
both the quality and the independence of the european food safety authority ensure that human and animal health and the environment are protected within the european union at a high level with little equivalent worldwide.
the commission only proposes to authorise genetically modified organisms when the european food safety authority (efsa) has confirmed their safety for humans, animals and the environment.
in relation to the authorisations to be voted on tomorrow, efsa has concluded that they are as safe as their non-genetically modified comparators with respect to the potential effects on human and animal health and the environment.
i would call for an open, honest and genuine discussion on our agricultural model, including its sustainability.
mr president we all want to reduce emissions and protect the environment and the climate.
we think this is still an important issue for the climate and how we will be able to grow in the future.
action is now needed to strengthen the business climate in the eu, especially in the tourism and transport sectors.
the business climate must be much better than it is today, especially among small businesses.
unfortunately, we risk seeing further blows to the tourism industry if we do not dare to combat the negative aspects of the climate debate.
they found that widespread flight disgrace could halve eu air traffic growth, with fewer jobs in the tourism sector and a significant negative impact on the european economy, while having only a marginal impact on the climate.
if we are serious about ensuring good conditions for the tourism industry, we must also question ideas like air shame and instead take our responsibility for reduced emissions by paving the way for a new green technology in the aviation industry.
it's how we take responsibility for the climate while protecting jobs and growth.
the situation is serious, but the un's international panel on climate change is also clear that it is still possible to reverse the trend and pass the paris agreement.
as a social democrat, it is clear to me that europe should lead the way to a climate-smart society.
we have consistently pushed for more ambitious transitions and emission reductions in the eu's climate and energy policy framework.
these are renewable energy, energy efficiency, emissions trading and transport emissions.
these are welcome steps along the way, but at the same time it is clear to everyone that emissions must be reduced even more and even faster than they are at present, and of course in line with the paris agreement.
we social democrats are taking the lead, for we are clear that we must make the transition to a socially, ecologically and economically sustainable society and we are convinced that we can do this together and that we can do both: both reduce emissions and increase economic growth.
i myself come from sweden, a country where the social democratic government is at the forefront of climate change and is investing a lot of resources.
i hope that now we can do it together, that we can promise greta and all the young people that we're going to take the lead in the climate change.
we really have a planetary emergency, both in terms of global warming and biodiversity loss.
the biodiversity that is so important for the planet to be able to adapt to a warmer climate.
to that, we must add about half a degree that particles, aeorosols in dirty air around the world, have masked away in part of global warming as a result of an enhanced greenhouse effect that we humans have already caused.
the climate needs the eu.
the threat to the environment does not stop at national borders.
climate change needs action, and it needs to happen fast.
it must be easier for individuals to make good environmental choices, but it must be expensive to waste and release.
our emissions trading system must work much, much better than it does today.
a common carbon tax would be the best way to achieve sustainability and growth.
the eu will be the world's leading environmental organisation, a driver of innovation, with our free trade agreements becoming key policy instruments for global climate policy.
the waste is blamed, among other things, on the complexity of eu legislation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the agreement in malta to try to distribute the people who have arrived by boat is welcome, but the long-term sustainable solution is to ensure that everyone takes responsibility for a safe and orderly european migration policy, i.e.
we do it because we want to achieve the sustainability goal of universal health care for all.
as a meteorologist, i've been following the climate for about 30 years now.
i've probably been following the climate policy debate for almost as long.
the problem is that climate policy is always lagging behind climate science.
we're talking about 50-55 percent reduction in emissions by 2030, when there are scientists today who say that even a 100 percent reduction in emissions by 2020 would not guarantee that we'll reach the paris climate targets.
it's amazing that we're starting to talk about a climate emergency.
but above all, we have to meet much, much tougher emissions targets for 2025, 2030 and all the way forward, so that we in europe are ahead.
we have only 10 years left to reach the un's global sustainability goals, and we definitely won't reach the goals if we don't take climate seriously.
the climate issue is the fate of our time.
the right-wing extremists in this room are talking in a way that we have a choice, as if the climate crisis doesn't exist.
the fact is that the climate crisis is here, and that the transition, of course, has to be done with the glasses of equality on.
climate change threatens to reverse the progress made in global development, health, poverty reduction and conflict prevention.
the climate challenge is serious, it is here and now, and it requires political determination, not panic.
we must focus on the measures that are most effective and reduce emissions the most.
therefore, the industry and transport sector need to be able to switch to clean energy.
and so this is not the time to waste time judging some fossil-free energy laws on the basis of ideology.
that is why we must also be able to count on nuclear power to meet our climate ambitions, to accelerate electrification and to phase out coal power.
– there is a growing awareness of global warming effects and its fast acceleration.
achieving the objective of eu climate neutrality by 2050 requires many efforts from each one of us, disregarding different political visions, professions and age.
a week before the cop 25 taking place in madrid, it is important to outline how we do this transition to a cleaner energy, lower emissions, etc.
we must outline what energy we produce, what type of economy we will promote, what manufacturing we have and will have.
the road towards successfully fighting climate change is a question of mutual responsibility.
whether we recognise it or not, the climate catastrophe is a global problem that affects everyone without exception and therefore requires a coordinated, collective response.
fighting climate change is no longer an option, but a duty for all political leaders.
as a european hungarian, i therefore believe that the first step should be to declare a european climate emergency, but we must not stop there.
we have a duty to represent our concerned electorate and to get the council to agree on a climate emergency, not just at european level but also at the national level.
scientists have long known that the climate is warming at an unsustainable rate.
climate change also affects economic activity.
it is economically viable for the eu to be at the forefront of change, as climate change also affects the economy and the eu's competitiveness.
on the other hand, a world that's been crippled by climate change is bad for business, too.
the sustainable development report released last week shows that the biggest challenge facing eu countries is to achieve the climate targets linked to sustainable development goal 13. in addition, eu countries have significant negative externalities on the ability of non-eu countries to achieve the targets.
this will mean much higher ambition in eu climate policy.
we must at least redouble our efforts if we are to meet the challenge of climate change.
i support this resolution with the confidence that the outcome of cop25 in madrid will be a decisive step in the implementation of the global paris agreement on climate change.
climate change is one of the most important challenges of our generation.
to date, romania, in a dual capacity, eums and party to the paris agreement and the un convention, has been at the forefront of implementing and funding climate action, in particular projects in the republic of moldova, aiming to leave a healthier planet and more prosperous, modern and fair societies to future generations.
i also support the adoption of decisions on increasing the share of the use of energy from renewable sources, the gap-gender dimension review, climate diplomacy, etc., decisions that were agreed at the 50th meeting of the subsidiary bodies of the unfccc, june 2019, under the romanian presidency of the eu.
the european union if someone has to be the climate leader.
we must work to ensure that industrial competitiveness, sustainable development and ambitious climate policy are mutually reinforcing.
tightening current targets is essential if we are to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. by being the first to achieve climate neutrality, the eu will secure a competitive advantage for eu industry.
the proposal is worrying and unrealistic and contradicts the eu's long-term climate strategy, the ipcc report and the iea report.
these reports show that nuclear power is an essential means of energy production for achieving a carbon-free europe.
nuclear power is an efficient and stable way of generating energy.
nuclear power is a key element in achieving climate goals.
if we are to succeed in our challenges - two of them we cannot fail to meet, namely climate and peace - then we must create the resources to be able to climate-change our industry, our agriculture, our energy system and so on.
if he were alive today, i'm sure he would add: the climate cannot be saved without creative efforts.
there are major investments in climate, research and development, the fight against youth unemployment - especially important now that we seem to be entering a recession - investments in education and vital infrastructure.
it is also what creates the conditions for successful climate change.
we have to deal with the climate and the peace.
when the first reports came from the un panel on climate change, which is now almost 30 years ago, what was happening right now was still just theories about what could happen in the future.
so what is happening now is exactly what climate scientists have warned about.
we must therefore work very intensively on climate adaptation, particularly in relation to our coasts and all the major cities and ports that lie along our coasts.
we can still keep global warming below 2 degrees, but that means that all of us here, members of parliament and the commission, are working together in all policy areas to deliver on what we have promised to each other and to the rest of the world in the paris agreement, namely to keep global warming well below 2 degrees, with a target of 1.5 degrees.
we have not succeeded in giving globalisation a legal framework which also safeguards the interests of workers and the protection of the environment.
let us use the current crisis to develop a new legal solution that sustainably protects people and the environment from the negative effects of globalisation and that defines and enforces clear, enforceable rules and obligations for businesses and investors.
we put trade first, fair and sustainable trade for our own sake, for the sake of welfare, for the sake of jobs and for the sake of the climate - indeed for the sake of the world.
we want to be part of setting the rules for the sustainable economy and for the digital economy of the future.
we are about to approve a commission for the next five years, and it is a high-level objective that europe should be the first climate-neutral continent.
the green deal is so crucial to our collective responsibility to leave a sustainable europe and a sustainable world - and a more peaceful world - to our children and grandchildren.
because climate change is about leaving no one behind.
so i think that the road ahead will have to be investing even more in economic and diplomatic but also security terms, in supporting this region in finding its way to a sustainable peace and sustainable security.
last, but not least, parliament clearly stated that the new agreement should provide for a peer-review mechanism for monitoring progress as well as gaps in implementing the sustainable development goals on a regular basis.
1. ensure that the agreement is firmly anchored in the un global sustainable development goals and reinforce the issues of respect for human rights, democracy, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and good governance.2.
finally, we must not forget the question of destiny: environmental and climate issues.
in more and more countries, there are bans on involvement in organizations that defend democracy, the environment, and even human rights.
those who fight for our environment and nature are threatened, harassed and even murdered.
earlier this autumn, the proposal to debate the church fences was voted down by swedish mps from the environment party, the centre party and the liberals, among others.
i want the eu and europe to be the world's first climate-neutral continent.
in my country, sweden, we have a government that has passed a climate law.
finland and, more recently, denmark have also adopted a very ambitious climate law.
it is important that europe raises its climate ambitions, but what is most important is of course what we do.
if we are serious about getting rid of dirty and fossil fuels in europe, we will need much more renewable energy.
we will also need more carbon-free nuclear power.
i think it is important for the commission to understand that this is also a very central element in our success in achieving our very high climate targets.
if europe is to set an example in the world, it is also important that we can reconcile our climate policy with growth and prosperity.
the basic problem is simply the oversized eu budget, which feeds corruption and waste.
this political leadership, it must be based on a holistic perspective and, in the case of climate change, a policy based on science.
so it's not enough to reduce 50-55 percent by 2030. nor is climate neutrality by 2050 enough.
the world agreed to a new five-year gender equality plan to make climate action and the paris agreement more equitable and fair.
in all likelihood, the 2020s, which we're inching into now, is the last decade we have if we're going to be able to keep global warming below 2 degrees.
we are facing humanitarian disasters and we will definitely not be able to reach the un's sustainability goals if we don't take more action, and we will do it now.
climate change calls for action at all levels, both in the public and private sectors.
today, for example, 100 of the world's largest companies account for 71 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions.
climate is not a question of maybe, as some would like to argue.
climate change is already affecting us today, but it requires urgent action to keep it below 1.5 degrees.
developing countries are also the most affected by climate change, with the least resources to cope with a changing climate, and despite the fact that many of these countries emit significantly less carbon dioxide than other countries.
it is clear that efforts to eradicate poverty, preserve the planet, create sustainable economic growth for all and promote social inclusion are closely linked.
cop25 may have failed, but i am proud of us here in parliament, of the commission with timmermans at the helm and of the finnish presidency for pushing the eu member states to take the lead in a climate neutral europe by 2050. but now it is up to the eu and the member states to turn words into action.
i am very pleased that the european council is now backing the objective of achieving a climate-neutral eu by 2050. the climate situation is serious.
it is therefore particularly important that we now have as a common goal the achievement of a climate-neutral eu.
the transition to a climate-neutral europe actually means new opportunities, new business models, new markets, new technologies and new jobs and indeed also new green growth.
and i want us to work together to make the eu the world's first climate-neutral continent.
madam president, the fires in the amazon forest this summer and the sometimes disgraceful rhetoric from the brazilian leadership about the climate have understandably stirred a lot of concerns about the mercosur agreement.
in fact, this deal would make the paris agreement more effective, not less, because it would anchor our climate commitment in mutually beneficial trade.
i agree with the science that very ambitious measures must be taken to save the climate.
modern trade deals with binding chapters on sustainability are the most efficient forms of international cooperation, so let us use trade policy as a tool to save the climate instead of treating it like an enemy of the climate.
this deal would make trade more sustainable in a better legal framework.
everyone is happy to spread the message that europe will be the world's first climate-neutral continent, the world leader, and then the rest of the world will follow.
and to fund this giant project, one of the things that they want to do is to introduce a "carbon border tax", a trade barrier, even though we know that it will most likely lead to trade conflicts and in the long run lower global trade and reduced prosperity -- a prosperity that actually forms the very basis for dealing with a real climate change.
instead, focus on innovation, smart building, technology development and carbon dioxide, nuclear power.
yesterday, back home in sweden, the government made it clear - thanks in large part to the swedish environment party - that all policies in all policy areas must now be in line with climate goals.
and not least in terms of trade agreements, we have a fantastic opportunity to influence climate policy, and other policies, in other countries.
i'm glad to hear many other politicians from other groups talking about us being leaders in climate change.