it was important that we find a balance between the objectives of protection pursued, such as health protection, the objectives of the internal market and, of course, environmental protection, but also between the individual objectives of protection.
the first rather one-sided statement on the gaza conflict, or the statement by the president of the republic on allegedly too high social and environmental standards, have already been mentioned.
for example, it is not sustainable for different member states to apply different rules on the age of the child when fingerprints are taken.
despite all the criticism of the details, this parliament and the commission really need to bring some member states to their senses and call for a common european energy policy at last.
i hope that we all have a clear list of priorities: energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy.
the only thing that bothers me about this whole debate is that we now have a new development in france: less nuclear waste.
but if you look closely, this nuclear waste has higher levels of radioactivity.
the problem, particularly as regards waste, cannot be solved in this way.
we need to put a lot more energy and a lot more ingenuity into this if we are to solve the waste and disposal problem.
we are on the verge of an energy crisis, a financial crisis.
above all, we should invest in energy efficiency.
if we could provide each citizen with a tax-deductible allowance of eur 10 000 per year, then investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy could start immediately.
in the case of renewable energy in particular, progressive depreciation, i.e.
we could have a better handle on employment and energy.
the european people have this right to be safe here, to go into a future where they are not threatened by energy production but can sleep peacefully and safely.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is certainly true that the number of private and business air travel has increased rapidly and that the environmental impact has increased.
we must find alternatives to prevent the increase in the number of flights and to limit pollution.
− the gas crisis we have just overcome has once again made it clear how important it is to have a secure, reliable and affordable supply of energy to the eu.
the energy debate is concerned by the sudden promotion of nuclear power as 'climate-friendly' and the sudden reactivation of scrap reactors, which are worth millions of dollars in subsidies.
the need to reduce energy consumption whether the mandatory regulation of energy-saving lamps is suitable for this is questioned by critics and to push alternative forms of energy.
but as long as our budgetary emphasis is on nuclear power, this will never happen and new energy technologies will have to be marginalised.
as important as considerations of securing the eu's energy supply are, they must not end up in promoting turkey's accession on the grounds of energy policy considerations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
agriculture is particularly affected by climate change because it is produced in the open air.
agriculture is often portrayed as a major contributor to climate change.
about 10% of global greenhouse gases are produced by agriculture, but most of these are natural gases such as methane.
i believe that agriculture is taking a leading role in the fight against climate change.
i'd like to document here, based on a study from austria in 2008, the following: agriculture, through crops such as grass, corn, grains and soil, uses and traps far more greenhouse gases than it produces.
according to the 2008 study, the total annual emissions from agriculture and forestry of approximately 8 million tonnes of co2 equivalent are offset by a capture effect of approximately 58 million tonnes of co2 equivalent.
this shows that agriculture cannot be seen as a saver of the environment.
on the contrary, i have one more number: since 1990, agriculture in austria has reduced co2 emissions by 1.3 million tonnes.
the energy sector is another important contribution of agriculture to combating climate change.
for example, in austria, agriculture consumes about 2.2% of the energy produced.
the share of renewable energy is 23%, again with a large share of agriculture.
we must also set the course for sustainable climate action as soon as possible.
a large economic and political community such as the european union can establish itself as a leading partner in the fight against climate change.
the first step has already been taken the union has agreed binding climate targets and, with the adoption of the climate package in december 2008, has launched many meaningful climate action measures.
i would be interested to know whether there is an initiative in ecofin and by commissioner kovács to initiate a progressive tax write-off across europe for energy projects that are now on the horizon, such as nabucco or the construction of new power stations, or on the other hand to provide exemptions to create incentives and to promote these strategic initiatives accordingly.
do you really think that the problems of energy security can be solved if each one of us tackles them on his own?
the treaty of lisbon, which is so often criticised, would have the great advantage of enabling us to work together a little more on energy policy and the common foreign and security policy, for example, in order to be able to deal effectively with the dangers and risks of the world.
russia has understood that it must talk with the european union if it wants to find common solutions, for example on the issue of energy security.
how can we try to solve these problems together, for example the question of energy security?
we presented the energy club here last year - vice-president onesta was there - where there was a great deal of enthusiasm from the scientific community and from those in charge that there are inventions that can be of great benefit to us all.
the workplace environment is particularly important in this context.
the decision on integrated pollution prevention and control (ippc) gives europe the chance to create uniform high standards of protection.
in the sensitive area of industrial emissions, it is important that european companies are given an incentive to use the cleanest and most efficient technology available.
the commission has also proposed that the ippc directive be amended to include a new ippc directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the effects of pollution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies.
tomorrow's decision on external costs in road freight transport is a decision on whether freight transport will finally become sustainable, whether there will be fair competition between rail and road in the future and whether the polluter pays principle will finally apply to transport at least a little .
we must put the health of our coaches and the environment ahead of the most unbroken roads.
the economy, the environment and people are the three cornerstones into which we must integrate european legislation on tolls and the eurovignette.
today it must be: first, the people, second, the environment and third, the economy.
in particular, we have given greater emphasis to the concerns of the main stakeholders - people, the environment and the economy.
it was a hard job, and yet remarkable progress has been made, which is a small step towards the complete greening of heavy goods transport, in particular no compensation for surcharges and the inclusion of noise, air pollution and some congestion, although it is debatable whether this is not a little too little, especially in the case of congestion.
i am not satisfied with certain aspects of the report, but i would like to mention one in particular: the problem of climate change is now well known to everyone.
only then can we create a system that is truly sustainable and responsive to the needs of the people in the long term.
it is one of the most efficient ways of saving energy, and in this respect it seems to me to be an important and correct way.
my question in this connection is: does the commission see a way of providing the corresponding vat reductions for low-energy and zero-energy houses in the prefabricated sector?
i have been fighting with the socialist group in the european parliament for years - against the massive resistance of some of the conservative epp group - to include the external costs (noise, congestion, pollution) in the toll calculation, so that the financial burden is shifted away from the taxpayer to the polluter, namely heavy goods vehicles.
if we raise only the toll for lorries, but do not at the same time extend the railway network and finally remove the crossborder obstacles to rail transport, then we have only decided today to increase the price of goods, and the hoped-for relief for human health and the reduction of environmental pollution will not be achieved.
the topics of climate change, energy policy, the financial crisis, drug trafficking, etc., have been mentioned.
i fully support the energy efficiency requirements and the climate targets we have agreed with the council and the commission.
- the recent introduction of energy-saving lamps, which will benefit manufacturers in particular, makes the alienation from the citizen visible.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
the intensive development of infrastructure between member states, as envisaged in the economic recovery programme - to give just one example, nabucco or other energy pipelines - plays a key role here, because it allows for quick investment.
this requires that we promote new technologies, innovation and, above all, sustainability in the transport system more than we have done so far.
it is not just the improvement of air routes, it is not just increased convenience for passengers and better calculability, it is also, if done well, a reduction in emissions.
we need them in air transport, because it is growing so fast, very urgently, and because our emissions trading in air transport has not been very good.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
i have to say, madam president, i have one more question to ask commissioner verheugen: there is the usb-2 interface, which can transfer not only energy but also data.
the apparently firmly planned accession of turkey will not bring the desired energy security either, but only political instability, islamism and a financial hole worth billions.
the energy and gas package that has been discussed and many other points are being negotiated by the czech presidency in an excellent way, in our view.
- i am in favour of the performance and sustainability of the european air transport system.
the commission expects a saving of between 7% and 12% of co2 emissions.
especially in times of economic crisis, the following are particularly positive: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- i shall vote in favour of the report on substances that deplete the ozone layer.
it is a recast of the ozone-depleting substances regulation, the eu's main instrument for implementing the montreal protocol, which commits to phase-out ozone-depleting substances.
the main objective is to ensure compliance with the provisions of the 2007 protocol, thereby ensuring that the ozone layer can recover and that harmful effects on human health and ecosystems are avoided.
i also support the rapporteur's view that, as in the past, the european union should provide 100% of the funding for the programme, in the spirit of a modern eco-social market economy with three pillars - economic, ecological and social - all three of which are equally important in order to enable all member states to participate in the programme.
or the energy crisis, where it's ukraine.
if mr horáček, who now seems to want to solve the government crisis in the czech republic, says that we should not put the energy question above human rights, nobody is doing that.
russia is the eu's third most important trading partner and is also of strategic importance for europe's energy supply.
i believe that it is particularly in the context of the financial and energy crisis that we must take a greater interest in this area and also respond to the wishes and needs of the people there, because ultimately man and nature are not in conflict but must complement each other.
i believe that we can make good progress in this area, particularly in energy policy, and perhaps offer more intensive cooperation here too.
the fact that the commission has not yet adopted the directive, which is a step in the right direction, is a sign that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
it is also a great step forward for small and mediumsized enterprises, because they need to become more competitive, especially in times of economic and financial crisis, and this energy package is the right approach.
the fact that we have a european regulator that helps its own companies to be treated on an equal footing in the other 26 member states, that the energy suppliers in the other 26 markets are given new opportunities, is also an essential feature of this regulation, so that completely new opportunities are created here.
on the one hand, we are facing new challenges brought about by climate change.
the question of sustainability in transport, the question of the climate impact of certain modes of transport, must be asked again and again and must also be reflected in the actions of the member states and the european union.
but we add to this the concerns of the people and the environment along the routes.
in addition to the risk of accidents, the tendency for goods traffic to collapse is also unsustainable in terms of congestion, noise and pollution.
i must warn you that in the debate on the financial catastrophe and the elimination of the looming or already real climate catastrophe, much reminds me of the period after the second world war in the german bundestag.
the pollution of the seas is always the subject of attention only when there is another spectacular incident, and then there is also a heated debate about the threat to our seas from this continuing pollution.
full employment is the goal, the sustainable social market economy is the european social and economic model, and fundamental social rights are enshrined.
the first is to use the proceeds in a way that creates sustainable jobs, because anything that creates jobs creates social stability and security.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment.
so it is not parliament's fault - in this case the budgetary people were even ahead of us in the energy sector, which has not made our lives quite easy otherwise, you are usually always the blockers, but then we tried to find a solution.
our concern is - and this should be taken for granted - that all the funds from the eu budget that cannot be spent should be used for job creation projects, projects aimed at energy security, energy efficiency and energy saving.
i hope - i do not know whether mr piebalgs will still be commissioner and responsible for this area - that the commission also believes that we must ensure that all the funds which cannot be spent are transferred to employment-oriented projects in other areas relating to energy efficiency and energy security.
a good sign: agriculture and energy on a bank of common strength.
it is a priority challenge, especially at a time of economic and financial crisis, that we do not send the money we need for energy to the russian oligarchs or the oil magnates, but that we keep the money in europe and strengthen the rural areas accordingly.
we are finally getting a representative and participatory democracy with the appropriate citizens' initiative, we are getting new competences in environmental protection and climate change.
in view of the critical energy situation, we need a legal basis for energy policy.
in the light of the ever-increasing health education of the european population and the very high european standards of environmental and health protection, it is irrelevant that carcinogens are still circulating in european factories.
and here we have had some very serious shortcomings: 20 days of energy emergency in europe in the course of the gas dispute between russia and ukraine could still be overcome somehow; but the management of the middle east crisis was, in my opinion, already more than helpful.
because we will only get broad support for the ecological restructuring of the economy if people feel that their social needs, their social needs, are also being taken seriously.
the survival of many family farms in the eu is seriously threatened and many can currently survive only by relying on personal savings, which is clearly not sustainable.
i feel that some people here are looking for a single culprit for the problems instead of approaching them with new energy and new ideas, with new energy and new vision to solve our common problems.
like the climate change?
they stand for the old, for the failed europe, for the contribution to the financial crisis because the commission failed, for the lack of commitment on climate issues and and and.
what incentives are there to encourage investment in renewable energy sources, not just in industry and commerce, but also in private households?
however, strategies often have the disadvantage that while they set and achieve targets, sustainability is neglected in the implementation.
sustainability must therefore be taken into account at the planning stage.
− unfortunately, the summer of 2009 was also marked by devastating forest fires in southern europe, which caused major material and ecological damage.
it is also necessary to consider - and this would be a task for your successor, whether you yourself or whoever - how we in europe are committed to some of the major projects, such as nabucco and desertec, but at the same time also advocate the decentralization of certain electricity or energy production.
a number of industrial projects are currently under development, which will enable consumers and households to become more involved in energy production, which will bring energy security.
this could be the european aspect, to say: yes, of course we need external supply, we need security of supply, we need large projects, innovative projects like desertec, but we also need to ensure that people, companies, enterprises, but also individual households can control their energy budget, their energy consumption, both in terms of price and in terms of both economic and environmental aspects.
but in the same vein as the new italian-russian remix south stream, the energy project of the same name is in danger of becoming a pawnshop.
and when you consider that a supposedly green man like joschka fischer is signing a six-figure lobbying contract, the whole thing sounds more like an avoidable pop song for an oligopolistic market than a symphony of sustainability and thrift.
in the next few years, electricity from solar energy will become much cheaper.
the total investment could generate a total of 8 000 megawatts of wind energy.
i consider particularly important the significant increase in the share of renewable energy sources in the current energy mix, which is why i also welcome the desertec project, which is being planned by a group of private investors.
we have a lot to do now, we can't waste any time.
they want us to speak a strong language when it comes to climate change, when it comes to security issues, when it comes to financial regulation.
the whole thing is problematic from a legal point of view, since in both countries the environmental impact assessment is carried out in breach of european law.
this is contrary to article 10 of the community directive on environmental impact assessment.
it is essential that the free movement of persons be regulated in a sustainable manner by effective accompanying measures.
another fact is that copenhagen is an international conference and that the community's co2 emissions account for about 17% of the world's co2 emissions.
the community has already passed legislation requiring a 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020. let's look at the hypotheses.
a second hypothesis is that there is a direct relationship between co2 emissions and the co2 content of the air and the temperature increase, and a third hypothesis is that humans can actually influence the co2 content of the air.
but it would be useful to have a second observation to help guide our policy, and this observation shows that all societies that are very energy and resource efficient are very successful.
in this context, it is useful to pursue policies that make it possible to be energy and resource efficient, also as a community, so that we can continue to play a leading role in international economic policy, but also to help other countries, in particular the less developed countries, to take this path.
our citizens are concerned about climate change, energy supply and the curtailment of their individual rights in the fight against terrorism.
the eu will certainly be judged on its ability to stop the waste of billions of taxpayers' money in this area.
i agree with mr brok, of course, on the basis of legislation, whether it is financial regulation or environmental and energy regulation.
one area which has already been touched upon and which we have been able to discuss this morning is certainly the central issue of climate policy.
even if the legislation on climate policy is not yet ready, there is at least a quasi-authorization for representatives of the american government to make binding commitments, even if they have to be specified in detail only after the american legislation.
it is not the end of a process, but it is an important step in the process of common climate policy, and we all need to see that copenhagen is a success.
and it will only succeed if there are binding climate policy goals.
the further strengthening of eu-us relations at the transatlantic economic council is an important step in times of economic crisis and preparations for the copenhagen climate conference.
in the field of the environment, the conversation must be directed above all to novel foodstuffs.
this not only facilitates trade and economic relations, but above all guarantees to final consumers in europe that they are protected from toxic substances in the environment and in their products.
we have stopped the crises only when unemployment has fallen sustainably and growth has returned to a sustainable level without multibillion-dollar packages that are driving our public deficits to dramatic heights.
russia is undoubtedly an important strategic partner for europe, not only in terms of energy supply.
whether the new memorandum on the prevention of energy crises and the european early warning system are worth the paper they are printed on will soon be seen, at the latest when the next gas dispute comes.
there is a climate of violence there.
the eu is also trying to prevent russia from negotiating energy projects with individual eu countries.
in times of climate change and global warming, it's clear that we need to reduce greenhouse gases and conserve energy.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment.
in austria in particular, this is very practical and very good, since a large part of our electricity is produced from hydropower and is therefore a very environmentally friendly energy.
if environmental protection is a good thing, then it is certainly a good thing, and above all it is appropriate, but not in this case, where jobs are being put at risk for a product which does not really seem to make sense.
like the structural crisis, the dramatic climate change is largely of our own making.
the aim - and i am talking about the aim of mankind - must be to manage the resources of our planet in a sustainable and balanced way.
if we succeed in creating a framework at european level which promotes science, innovation and modern, environmentally friendly technologies, green technologies and renewable energies, then we europeans can achieve two objectives.
firstly, we are all making a positive contribution to reducing climate-damaging co2 emissions and thus to achieving greater independence from fossil fuels.
we are now fooling ourselves that certain weather phenomena - such as the flooding in ireland - are directly linked to climate change.
europe is responsible for only 10% of co2 emissions.
at the same time, we know that the united states, china and the apec countries, which are responsible for two-thirds of the world's carbon emissions, are very critical of the whole issue.
it is of no use to anyone if europe is at risk of carbon leakage and the factories that produce twice as energy efficient here in europe as in other parts of the world are leaving.
i have to say, madam president, climate change and sustainable development are issues that should be seen as affecting us all.
as long as the us and china do not want to commit themselves to joint, binding reductions in greenhouse gases, only morally binding decisions, i.e.
decisions without teeth, will be taken in copenhagen, as the un climate chief rightly noted.
there is no doubt that risk minimisation is a priority for both human health and the environment.
it is not only for environmental reasons that it is important to remove obstacles and technical difficulties in cross-border rail transport.
by the way, at my recent meeting with president medvedev, i once again made the point about the supply of energy from russia to lithuania.
so we are working actively with our lithuanian friends, and also with other partners important to the security of energy supplies to lithuania.
and how do you see the challenge for the eighth framework programme for research, where it is discussed that we should in future provide 50 billion euros for energy efficiency research, especially in the area of smes.
whenever tourism is discussed at european level - and i know that there will be no legal possibilities for it in the future - we are faced with a major problem, which affects tourism, transport and environmental protection, namely the european holiday periods, which are not uniform, are not integrated and are not adapted.
it is not just about establishing a free trade area, but also about sustainable effects.
after this excitement, perhaps a few more objective tones: energy-hungry emerging economies and energy-wasting developed countries were not even willing to implement the kyoto protocol.
− for too long, the eu has tried to reduce greenhouse gas concentrations on its own.
meanwhile, energy-hungry emerging economies and energy-wasting developed countries were not even willing to implement the kyoto protocol.
to make a difference, environmental policy needs to be re-engineered, not just to shift millions in the allowance trade, but to promote real alternatives such as renewable energy and reduce the eu-subsidised freight transport across europe.
a sustainability study carried out by the university of manchester warns of negative social and environmental consequences for the semcs involved.
the use of a uniform label contributes to better and more accurate information for consumers and clarifies the social and environmental standards of the products concerned.
the purpose of labelling is in particular to enable eu consumers to obtain information without restriction on the country of origin of the goods they buy and thus also to associate the goods with the social, environmental and safety standards of the country concerned.
positive aspects such as improving the security of energy supply can also be achieved through a privileged partnership.
this applies not only to animal health and food safety, but also to environmental standards, production and animal welfare.
the added value of agriculture in the area of maintaining our cultural landscapes, landscape and biodiversity and much more is irreplaceable.
in the exchange of views on his guidelines, commission president barroso promised that sustainability and the preservation of biodiversity will be the main policy objectives of the european union for the current period.
i would like to make a very strong appeal to you here today to promote and support those measures, and only those measures, which contribute to the conservation of biodiversity and sustainability.
the future will require more skilled workers, and retraining in the fields of technology and renewable energy is certainly a valuable step.
energy security present and future is a key issue of european importance.
nevertheless, radioactive waste remains a permanent risk factor for the health and safety of future generations.
i am interested in the true external costs of using nuclear energy and how to calculate them.
it is high time that we not only continue to explore and promote alternative renewable energy technologies, but also to implement them more intensively.
first, energy-efficient buildings can reduce co2 emissions by up to a third.
the caucasus is known to be a transit region for energy and russia, which is an important strategic partner, is of great importance to us.
i think that if we are going to have a climate summit, then there should be more cost-effectiveness and honesty in the discussion about nuclear reactors.
if we are to find solutions to climate change, we must also put an end to emissions fraud.
i am thinking in particular of the liberalization of water supply, health services and energy.
− large amounts of waste are produced in the eu member states every day.
of course, how we deal with this has major implications for the environment.
the commission's recently published report on the implementation of eu waste legislation concludes that, while some member states have made progress, huge implementation efforts are needed in many countries to ensure that waste management infrastructure meets eu requirements.
as regards the removal of biodegradable waste from landfills, the commission report states that only nine countries reached their reduction targets in 2006, according to the rather limited data available.
it is very important to meet the eu's targets for reducing biodegradable waste in landfills.
the council also invited the commission to continue its impact assessment to prepare a proposal for eu legislation on biodegradable waste, if appropriate.
the council considered that the need for eu legislation, in particular on the recycling of biodegradable waste through composting and energy recovery in biogas plants with subsequent recycling of residual waste, should be taken into account.
the council also noted that better management of bio-waste would contribute to a more sustainable management of our resources, to increased soil protection, to the fight against climate change and, not least, to the achievement of the objectives of landfill, recycling and renewable energy.
i also believe that careful long-term planning is an added value and prevents the waste of valuable financial resources.