firstly, because it pursues ambitious environmental and health objectives and secondly, because it remains economically rational in agriculture and thus also takes account of both food security and the viability of agriculture in the union.
the directive on the sustainable and risk-reducing use of pesticides and the regulation on the marketing of pesticides are both extremely necessary and useful.
sustainable food production and consumption is a basic human right.
the laws we are voting on tomorrow will, however, ensure better protection of people and the environment and will also ultimately result in more innovation and safer substitutes.
madam president, the citizens of europe should be pleased today with the very good agreement reached by the commission, the council and, of course, our rapporteurs on the pesticide issue, and this in a climate of, as has been said, very intense and particularly effective lobbying, if i am to hear this debate, in great britain and ireland.
a package of legislation which reconciles health and the environment, competitiveness and innovation, instead of opposing them as is too often the case.
we also know that parliament agreed in september 2008 that state aid to public broadcasters should be delivered so that they fulfil their function in a dynamic environment, avoiding the use of public funding for reasons of political or economic expediency.
the draft ensures that our rules reflect the rapidly changing new media environment.
it will help to maintain media pluralism in the new media environment by safeguarding fairness and certainty for both commercial media, including online newspapers and our excellent public media.
a minimum distance set at european level would have been better from an environmental and public health point of view.
three zones over such a large area seem to us to be problematic, because environmental conditions can vary greatly within such a zone.
(applause) i would like to thank
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is well known, we have been debating it for years, here in the house and in the energy committee.
this coordination can also be fundamental, and is fundamental, when it comes to wind energy; i am pleased that in the second review you clearly envisage that the planned development of an offshore wind turbine network will involve coordination, particularly as regards the connection to the onshore networks.
thirdly, the networks must be adapted to renewable energy which, as we know, will be generated in a decentralised manner and we must ensure that it has priority access to the grid.
the report on the second strategic review of energy policy shows far too little coherence.
i believe that the top priority for a european energy policy is to make a massive effort to create an energy-efficient economy.
reducing energy consumption must be a top priority in order to achieve the objectives of climate change, sustainable development, innovation, job creation and competitiveness.
this is a very effective and inexpensive way of ensuring an uninterrupted supply of energy.
european energy policy must take account of the changing way in which energy is consumed and produced in a forward-looking manner.
decentralised energy systems will have to be combined with large-scale sources of renewable energy.
in addition to energy efficiency, energy saving is also of great importance.
the report overestimates the importance of nuclear energy.
nuclear energy covers about a third of the total electricity demand, but only 6% of the total energy demand.
in this context, it is therefore appropriate to recall that there is still no sustainable solution to the problem of (highly) radioactive waste.
this should bring us a step closer to a more sustainable transport system.
we've chosen to deal with air pollution, noise and congestion.
we therefore agree that air pollution, noise and congestion are included where the external costs should be internalised.
air pollution would then be an additional 16 cents for the most polluting trucks.
the proposals adopted now allow member states to pass on the costs of air pollution, noise and congestion to lorries.
now we're all paying for the damage caused by air pollution.
files are a major contributor to air pollution, noise pollution and fuel waste.
if we can use the proceeds of this levy to invest in rail and water transport, we will solve both the traffic problem and climate change.
unfortunately, the climate costs of heavy freight traffic were not included, even though the transport sector is responsible for a large proportion of emissions.
the pumping of huge sums into that model carries a serious risk of deepening the ecological and social crises.
they are creating a better social climate in turkey itself, better environmental and health legislation and better labour legislation for turkish people.
without a well-trained and motivated health workforce throughout the eu, the financial sustainability of european health systems will be threatened and health inequalities will increase.
to conclude, tackling the challenges of the eu health workforce whilst ensuring financial sustainability of health systems will be one of the major tasks over the next decade for europe.
mr bowis referred to another very important question – and i agree with him – namely that, because of climate change, we see other parts of the world being flooded with water.
this is more than necessary if we are to have a chance of meeting the mdgs by 2015, because, commissioner, basic health care deserves long-term sustainable investment.
first, the sustainability of public eu funding.
we europeans must now lead and take charge of the transition to a more sustainable car sector, and that can only be done if we guide this sector through this severe and life-threatening downturn.
we must prevent the dumping of waste and not only use these european resources for the disposal of waste.
- green politicians are convinced that we cannot separate the economic and ecological crises.
the green group proposed that funding should only be made available on condition that the car industry significantly improves its environmental performance.
transport is responsible for about one third of all co2 emissions in the eu.
i voted against the majority resolution because it does not make improving environmental performance a condition for obtaining public money.
at the north pole, global warming is sharpening appetites for control of the area's riches.
the thaw will facilitate the exploitation - you said it - of the enormous oil and gas reserves and will open up a sea route between east and west, saving thousands of kilometres for cargo ships, but unfortunately disastrous for the environment.
for my group, and for michel rocard, who initiated this debate in the pes and who has just been appointed as ambassador for the arctic, given the energy, environmental and military issues, the convention on the law of the sea is not enough for the arctic.
unfortunately, i was not followed by my colleagues in the committee on the environment, although the same text was voted on - i would like to remind you of this - almost unanimously in our plenary session on 2 september, in the context of another report on the european action plan for the environment and health for the period 2004-2010. the ostrich policy currently being pursued by the commission - i apologize for using that term, commissioner - certainly does not contribute to the clarification that european citizens expect and, on the contrary, experts continue to differ, the number of lawsuits is increasing, sometimes in favour of operators, sometimes in favour of local residents' associations.
- the labelling of energy-efficient car tyres is a bit oddly balanced between electricity and gas here today.
it is a concrete intervention that costs little or nothing and will make a significant contribution to achieving our ambitious climate goals.
so it stands to reason that there is a huge potential for energy efficiency and savings.
we are going to try to persuade all motorists, that is to say the majority of the population, to pay attention in future to the energy efficiency and noise emission of tyres.
that is pure profit, as it is called, profit for the consumer and profit for the environment above all.
this is equivalent to removing the co2 emissions of about one million passenger cars on european roads.
once this measure is in full swing, it means that the co2 emissions of one million passenger cars are taken away.
it goes without saying that environmental friendliness must never be at the expense of safety and that is why we have also amended this text.
that is also in it, you know, because noise pollution is one of the great diseases of our time.
i am convinced that it is therefore a good thing that we have introduced a prudent and feasible criterion in this connection to further reduce noise pollution, but as i said, never at the expense of the safety of the car and the car tyre.
we naturally expect that, as with the co2 emissions of cars themselves, tyre manufacturers in this area will be able to bring products to market much earlier that will meet the most environmentally friendly standards.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the labelling of energy-efficient tyres.
the benefits to the driver and the environment begin then.
environmental, social and taxation law must be dealt with here in this house together with the council and the commission.
combating climate change, facilitating trade, guaranteeing energy supplies, meeting the mobility needs of citizens, reducing congestion problems and tackling demographic change are all issues of fundamental importance for european policy and the mobility of urban areas is intimately linked to all these challenges.
there is the exchange and promotion of good ideas, the driving of technological innovation, the ensuring of interoperability of systems, the encouragement of cities to make mobility plans, the taking of measures to achieve more sustainable mobility.
these and other examples clearly concern things that need to be organised at european level to make our cities more liveable, more easily accessible and more sustainable.
moreover, from an environmental point of view, we cannot accept restrictions such as the requirement that the goods carried in the course of an incoming international carriage have to have been fully delivered before a cabotage operation can be carried out.
we are therefore in any case contributing and ensuring that there is a basis for providing, in addition to the two laws on pesticides which have already been adopted, namely the directive on sustainable use and the regulation on the placing of pesticides on the market, a set of instruments in the form of a sound system for the provision of data by means of statistics.
it is one of the most important achievements that we have been able to impose on the council, against its will in fact, that we have taken as the basic definition for pesticides the basic definition as previously included by parliament in the framework of the political agreement with the council in the directive on sustainable use.
another achievement is undoubtedly the fact that, by taking the word 'pesticide' as the basic definition and the definition of pesticides in the directive on sustainable use, we have also included the term 'biocide' in the directive as a secondary term.
− madam president, the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides approved by the european parliament and the council in january 2009 intends to complement the existing legislative framework by targeting the use phase of pesticides, with the objective of reducing the impact of pesticides on human health and the environment.
on the basis of the current compromise, the commission is confident that an agreement in second reading can be reached between the european parliament and the council on this important proposal to ensure the success of the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides.
this will allow seal fishermen who are engaged in the by-catch of seal, and for the sole purpose of sustainable management of marine resources, to place seal products on the market on a non-profit-making basis and to cover their costs.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i am therefore very grateful to the colleagues from the various groups for their immediate agreement to my proposal to opt for an absolute ban on the trade in seal products, with the only exception being the traditional hunting of inuit communities.
the committee on the environment therefore did not opt for the original commission proposal with the various exceptions, nor for a labelling system which we consider to be uncontrollable.
mr president, first of all i would like to say to mr reinfeldt that our group of liberals and democrats will fully support the priorities of the swedish presidency, namely the ratification of the lisbon treaty, which we naturally expect to be implemented swiftly and in full, the preparation of the climate summit in copenhagen, which we have already mentioned, a priority which we fully support, and finally the stockholm agenda.
it is your responsibility, mr reinfeldt, to tell your colleagues that a better way to deal with this is, together with the commission, to devise one single recovery plan and to invest in sustainable energy and in the new economy.
the lisbon treaty, the copenhagen climate conference and a forceful response to the financial and economic crisis.
we believe that this energy-efficient and environmentally friendly car can also be produced in the existing car assembly plants in europe today, and we count on you, mr barroso and mr reinfeldt, to stand by us.
it is a vital transit route, rich in natural resources (gold, oil and gas) and essential to china's energy future.
so we should use those resources to help those workers for training, for reorganization, for development that really goes in the direction of a green new economy that is low carbon and less fossil fuel based.
first, the implementation of sustainable mobility solutions in europe requires the talents and skills of workers, from engineer to worker, in the automotive sector.
secondly, the commission must now devote all its energy to helping to provide a new future in those places where jobs are going to die.
we are in the midst of a complete transition in all these areas: financial, economic, ecological, demographic, energy, migration and security, not to mention globalisation, the food problem, the struggle to preserve our social model.
one thing is certain: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
so yes, we will wait for the government to deliver on its promises, such as tackling climate change, discrimination and the urgent need for a concerted response to the economic and social crisis.
let's say it right away, preventing natural disasters, adapting to climate change is not easy.
we have asked in our resolution exactly the same thing as in the joint resolution, that is to say that we condemn the attack, that we ask for an investigation, that we are concerned about the deteriorating climate of human rights for activists in russia.
in any case, you have said that there is no time to waste.
i agree with you: there is no time to waste with this current economic and financial crisis.
mr president, climate change is responsible for more than 300 000 deaths a year.
the economic losses due to this climate change are estimated at over 125 billion dollars a year, and, again, 90 percent is borne by developing countries.
these countries are being hit by the financial crisis, climate change and the deeply unequal mechanisms of unbridled capitalism that is plundering them globally.
firstly - and it is true, as you have said, i am addressing the council here - broad and sustainable action on climate change, that is to say a new and more ambitious kyoto, and that is why the copenhagen summit in december is so important; secondly, an increase in financial aid in relation to the commitments already made so as to reach 0.7% of gdp by 2015; and, finally, thirdly, the legal protection of these new environmental refugees who are beginning to arrive.
it is essential to establish decent planning and management of environmental migration flows and to close the legal gaps affecting the protection of these refugees.
europe must come up with a strong roadmap that dramatically accelerates the development of the sustainable electric car.
groups of commission portfolios: external action, which is obvious, then innovation, climate and sustainability, then all matters relating to financial and economic justice and, finally, internal affairs.
i would emphasise the need to have the right balance between – like in climate change – mitigation and adaptation.
it is also a decision that will confirm the monopoly of nuclear power, which will make renewable energy projects and all the jobs associated with them much more difficult.
i therefore hope that the commission will react, especially on the eve of the copenhagen summit, where energy issues - and in particular renewable energies - will obviously be central.
president obama is not getting a carbon trading system through the senate, his priority is health care and not cap and trade.
are we going to continue with a mandatory emissions trading system or not?
emissions trading also has many disadvantages, it's very volatile.
we must develop environmental technology well, we must make environmental investments tax-deductible, encourage research and develop environmentally friendly production technologies.
i believe that together with the energy issue, transport is actually the most difficult of the climate challenges.
this is particularly important for the aviation sector and for maritime transport, where there is still a lot of sustainability to be gained.
in this regard, our committee on the environment and public health in parliament has done its job, proposing direct annual aid of €30 billion until 2020 to help these countries in the transition to a lower carbon economy.
this brings me to what i consider to be a flaw in our resolution, and i mean the failure to consider the impact of climate change on the health of populations.
i also note on paper the recent but exemplary momentum given to the talks by brazil, south korea, indonesia and norway, in particular, which have quantified their ambitions to reduce their polluting emissions.
while the flexibility demanded by the united states, which is only beginning to take the climate issue into account, is understandable, we will still have to achieve binding and ambitious, quantified commitments in the short, medium and long term from major polluters such as the united states and china.
otherwise, we are running into a climate, political and moral disaster.
i would of course like to follow my colleague mr niculescu in saying that we should not regard it as a constraint but as a potential tool to combat global warming in the future.
this activity cannot be marginalized, nor can it be ignored, since it occupies most of the european territory and has enormous potential to combat global warming.
we also adopted a directive on the sustainable use of pesticides at that time, and this regulation on pesticides and statistics is the third window.
firstly, i have some doubts about the fact that the environment portfolio will be divided into three areas: climate change, energy and environment.
we have to develop a strategy for the whole of the european union on social, economic and environmental issues, and we have three months and a consultation which starts today.
mr president, commissioner, in your reply you do indeed refer to the outcome of a second report in autumn 2010, a third energy package, which will be closely monitored.
this is at a time when the commission, like the member states, is insisting in its energy plans on the need to reduce consumption and on the possibility of comparing prices in order to change suppliers.
i would also remind you that the commission has rejected an energy consumer charter proposed by parliament - that was mrs de vits - which you yourself had earlier advocated.
− the resolution adopted by the european parliament today has a specific chapter which emphasises the important role of regions and local authorities in climate policy, particularly in terms of consultation, information, information and implementation.
several regional authorities are already taking the lead in implementing a strong climate change policy.
as a member of the european free alliance, representing european nations and regions, i fully support the direct involvement of regional governments in promoting sustainable development and providing an effective response to climate change.
in this context, the work of the network of regional governments for sustainable development (nrg4sd) should be highlighted.
this network already works closely with the united nations development programme and the united nations environment programme (undp and unep).
in copenhagen, from 7 to 18 december, nearly 200 nations will negotiate a new international treaty to combat climate change, the post-kyoto treaty, which will come into force in 2013... the resolution adopted will serve as a negotiating roadmap for the european union.
achieving a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 by 2020, with ambitious, quantified but flexible commitments from other polluters such as the us and china, and 80% by 2050, as requested by the experts; the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy and to clarifying the collective commitment of the industrialised countries in terms of financial and aid to developing countries.
failure in copenhagen would be an environmental, political and moral disaster!
the european parliament has voted in favour of the resolution because it calls on the eu's negotiating leaders to make available 30 billion euro to developing countries in their fight against climate change.
the ep is also calling for the eu to be able to take action to combat climate change, and for the eu to be able to take action to combat climate change.
this in turn increases the likelihood that countries such as china, india and brazil will also join global climate policy.
the only negative point is that the production of nuclear energy is not mentioned in the resolution.
however, mr diouf's objective was to develop the tools and means of production so as to ensure food security in a sustainable way in developing countries.
they also denounced the tendency of many rich countries to promote the use of chemical fertilizers and new technologies in africa instead of encouraging the sustainable development of agroecology.
the energy.
if we really want to develop rail freight as a driver of sustainable mobility, it is imperative to support diffused traffic, otherwise it will disappear completely in favour of road, which would be contrary to our co2 emission reduction objectives.
support for diffused traffic must therefore be considered as a public service mission as an integral part of a sustainable mobility strategy.
finally, i continue to oppose the enormous waste that is the hallmark of all the european institutions.
we need a sustainable strategy in europe, not a one-off injection like this initiative.
(the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the first thing to do is to seek the triangular alliance needed to reach an agreement and to propose from the outset a 30% reduction in emissions.
i have already had the opportunity to express myself in this way during the debate, and since, in particular, the amendment concerning public services and the need for governments to be able to control public services on fundamental issues such as water, energy, was rejected, for that reason alone, i voted against this resolution.
the european parliament proposes concrete solutions to this problem: full tax-free and quota-free market access for the least developed countries, completion of the doha round for developing countries, environmental and social standards, and a limited mandate for the commission on agricultural matters.
finally, i think we must return to the amani programme, which offers the possibility of building dialogue and pacification everywhere, the only guarantees of sustainable reconstruction.