try to develop a more responsible eu policy on energy and energy supplies.
as a member of the european parliament from bulgaria, i welcome the czech presidency for putting energy and energy security among its key priorities.
ladies and gentlemen, i think i speak for the whole of parliament when i say that we cannot allow european citizens to pay the price for the political games of countries using their energy resources as political tools.
so i believe that we need sustainable energy solutions.
we need a common european energy policy.
an important element of this is the improvement of energy infrastructure.
when we talk about european energy solidarity, we mean joint energy projects of the european union and avoidance of the current practice of bilateral negotiations.
the need for concrete action towards a common european energy policy is now greater than ever.
energy security is a particularly pressing issue today and requires the mobilisation of the efforts of all member states.
the suspension of russian gas supplies to european consumers in the face of the sub-zero temperatures that europe has experienced gives a new dimension to the concept of energy independence.
we have, bulgaria has, a huge energy source that has now been closed for political reasons, and that source is called the kozloduy nuclear power plant.
bulgaria has now activated coal-fired power plants that pollute the environment far more than any nuclear power plant, and i'm sure my green colleagues will agree with that.
the cutting of the first four units of the kozloduy npp, which underwent dozens and dozens of inspections that proved that they were completely safe, was a huge mistake that caused huge losses to the bulgarian people, and now the bulgarian people continue to suffer further because they have nowhere to get energy.
and that is why i am appealing to the commission: it is high time that you allowed both bulgaria and slovakia to open their fully safe nuclear power stations to meet their energy shortages.
i say political dispute because we have all witnessed how gazprom and energy supplies from russia are being used as a political weapon to put pressure on a sovereign country.
secondly, gazprom owes damages to our countries, because at the moment bulgaria, the most affected country in europe, is totally dependent on the energy supply of gas in russia, it must seek its rights and it must seek them from the supplier, which in this case is the russian side.
thirdly, energy in europe must be spoken with one voice and that voice must clearly say 'yes' to nuclear energy in europe, 'yes' to alternative energy sources, 'yes' to the different pipelines that make us less dependent on one supplier, 'yes' to the larger storage facilities, 'yes' to most connections between member states, in order to avoid this type of crisis.
as rapporteur for one of the documents in the third energy package, i believe that the issue of transparency and compliance is more important than any other issue related to the third country clause.
now more than ever, the european union needs to apply the old musketeer motto of solidarity 'one for all and all for one' and help financially affected countries like bulgaria with vital projects that will ensure its energy security.
it is time to show the strength and unity of our alliance by adopting a long-term energy strategy.
alternative energy sources and new technologies will reduce our dependence on imported raw materials and energy.
after the economic, social, environmental problems of the gas crisis.
the switch of entire industries from gas to fuel oil, as happened in bulgaria, is slowing down the european union's plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
we appreciate the timely intervention of the european institutions, but a priority partnership is needed to improve our energy independence.
the european economic recovery plan should therefore take into account, through financial support, the current needs for the construction of alternative energy infrastructure, especially in the most dependent countries, such as bulgaria.
as a result of this crisis, bulgaria has turned from an energy hub in the balkans into a gas crisis headquarters.
it is not justifiable that the country most affected receives the least funds when nearly eur 3,5 billion will be allocated to energy projects.
in a few minutes, we'll begin our discussion of the energy strategy.
i call on all colleagues to show that we have a vision for our energy independence, that we can overcome our political considerations on the eve of the elections and that we can protect the solidarity and mutual aid that have brought us together.
last wednesday, the european commission announced its proposal for a recovery programme in the field of energy security.
for us, the patriots of ataka, energy independence of bulgaria is the number one priority.
a few days ago, bulgaria was facing a very serious energy crisis.
with my colleagues in the european parliament, dimitar stoyanov and slavie binnev, we have submitted a written declaration number 0005/2009 in which we ask that these reactors be reopened in order for bulgaria to achieve its energy independence.
and in conclusion, i would like to say that europe will be strong only when each individual member state is strong and independent in its own energy.
i would like to begin by thanking the committee on industry, research and energy for the constructive debate on mrs laperrouze's report and in particular for her role in preparing an objective and comprehensive report.
i would like to mention in particular the proposals i made in the report to reflect the problems of the countries most affected by external suppliers of energy, especially gas.
first, it was noted that the european parliament should be actively involved in defining projects for new energy links, especially between the gas and electricity networks of the member states.
fourth, the commission is invited to consider extending the energy community to south east europe and other neighbouring countries with a view to creating a single market across the region.
as rapporteur on the regulation on access conditions to gas transmission networks, i would like to reiterate the importance of the third energy package for the construction of the single european energy market and call for its adoption as soon as possible.
finally, i would like to say that the report also objectively reflects the role of nuclear energy.
it is clear that politically motivated decisions such as those taken in respect of 'kozloduy' cannot be a long-term solution in the future development of the european union's energy mix.
madam president, as the shadow rapporteur on the committee on foreign affairs, i would like to congratulate mrs laperrouze on this report, which gives a broad overview of the european union's energy problems, including the need for a common energy policy.
the report also sets out very clearly the actions we need to take to tackle the challenges to our energy security.
i also welcome the fact that nuclear energy has found its rightful place in such a report and that it is presented as a necessary source of energy.
especially now, after the gas crisis, it is also clear, and it is well underlined, that there is a need for diversification of energy sources.
on the other hand, and for the future, we have to continue to work towards more alternative corridors, energy corridors, not one corridor at the expense of another.
last october, i noted here in this room that the nabucco energy project is still "smoke without fire".
but it should be clear that despite the actions and measures taken to achieve greater energy security, much more effort, including serious political activity, is needed to see the light at the end of the tunnel.
second, the capacity for energy storage.
unfortunately, the big issue of energy dependency is exacerbated as we enter another crisis and political confrontation between russia and ukraine.
we had a promise of a common european energy policy then, but for three years it seems nothing has changed.
and today we ask ourselves: are we ready for a single energy market or do individual interests prevail in bilateral agreements?
i'm very glad to hear that nuclear energy is being treated as an equal to other energy sources.
we need that energy, and it would be a serious barrier to inspired crises.
obviously we need to ramp up the accelerated work on the third energy package.
as a member of imco, i have worked a lot to protect consumers in terms of energy supply, but you understand that we must first of all provide that energy.
colleagues, it is clear that climate change is the focus of many of the main european and non-european policy issues.
no old alliance, no single union, can tackle the challenges of climate change alone and independently.
i'd like to draw attention to two facts without which we cannot work to combat climate change.
i call for investing in science and making climate change a top priority for all union science programmes.
the problem of the use of waste oils containing polychlorinated biphenyls in a food waste recycling plant raises again the question of the need to ensure food safety in the european union.
the second amendment deals with the energy question.
paragraph 44 of the report refers only to ukraine and moldova, whereas most of our neighbours are important countries in the energy sector, either as source countries or as transit countries.
i therefore believe that energy measures should include all the countries in our neighbourhood.
the exchange of knowledge would not be possible without the relevant infrastructure, because it plays a key role in creating an efficient environment for the implementation of cutting-edge and much-needed scientific research.
it could help to ensure the circulation of knowledge within the european union, to raise the prestige and authority of european research centres at world level, to increase employment, and it is also the way to find adequate solutions to the new environmental challenges.
of course, the possibility of net economic benefits from a reduction in vat rates is not based only on the characteristics of the sector concerned but also on the specific economic environment in the member states concerned.
the responsibility of the ep in preparing the 2010 budget is greater than in previous budgets, and this is due to the financial and economic crisis and the energy instability affecting the union's member states.
i believe that by using budgetary instruments, we will be more responsive in 2010 to the energy and transport networks, the internal energy networks for the eu well planned to ensure the availability of alternatives to the countries most affected by its absence.
the economic contribution and participation of each roma in the labour market must be the basis for the sustainable and effective integration of roma.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the maritime community has long been discussing the need to improve the regulation, control and monitoring of shipping traffic, because of the dangers of accidents, pollution, the risk to human life, and illegal traffic, which is unfortunately not a small one.
structuring the hazardous waste problem is important.
this issue, together with energy security, climate change and the financing of the mitigation and adaptation to climate change, will be the focus of next week’s meeting.
they include the need to maintain openness within the internal market, ensuring non-discrimination and working towards long-term policy goals, such as facilitating structural change, enhancing competitiveness and building a low-carbon economy.
as far as the community part of the recovery programme is concerned, the presidency is working very hard to reach an agreement in the european council on the commission proposal to finance energy and rural development projects.
so the renewed lisbon strategy remains the right framework within which to promote sustainable economic growth, which will, in turn, lead to the creation of new jobs.
the other major item on the agenda of next week’s european council will be energy security.
the recent energy crisis demonstrated all too clearly the extent to which we need to increase our ability to resist future supply problems, as we could see earlier this year.
the commission has provided some very useful elements in its second strategic energy review.
on the basis of this review, the presidency intends that the european council agree on a set of concrete orientations aimed at enhancing the union’s energy security in the short, medium and long term.
it also means taking urgent steps to launch infrastructure projects to enhance energy interconnections – this is certainly essential.
it means taking adequate measures to improve energy efficiency.
we have to work with our international partners to promote the union’s energy interests.
next week’s meeting will also discuss the preparations for the copenhagen conference on climate change.
it is very clear that climate change is a challenge which can only be tackled through a concerted global effort.
there will be four policy platforms: democracy, good governance and stability; economic integration; energy security; and, last but not least, contacts between people.
it will make us stronger when the upturn comes, ready to face the challenge of competitiveness and a low-carbon economy.
just look at energy security.
that is why your support, the european parliament's support for the eur 5 billion stimulus to energy and broadband projects is so valuable the more so as i am rather concerned, to be honest with you, about the state of play in council, where we are not making the progress i would wish to see.
we have to focus our energy on employment and on helping people make it through the crisis.
at the same time, it is important to preserve the social standards of eu citizens, to protect the socially vulnerable, and at the same time not to distort competition and not to compromise environmental protection.
i hope, however, that the council will adopt a plan to support energy interconnections between countries so that a future gas crisis will be mitigated in its effects.
while we are talking about the need for solidarity, we have to be aware that this european solidarity must be accompanied by nationally responsible policies on sustainable financial development in europe.
we have to invest in our future, but it must be done in a way that will not undermine the long-term sustainability of our public finances or the rules of the game on the internal market.
some of you also mentioned the need for reaching an agreement on mitigating and adapting to climate change, in preparation for the meeting in copenhagen.
we have tried to ensure that the spending programmes are organised in such a way that short-term needs do not jeopardise long-term objectives, precisely what several speakers from all the groups have said, namely that we are in an economic transformation, a transformation towards a low-carbon economy, towards a resource-efficient economy and towards a knowledge-based economy.
the lisbon strategy does not assume that the best market economy is one that can be allowed to develop undisturbed in the radical sense of the market, but the lisbon strategy is based on the firm conviction that the market needs rules if it is to live up to its social and environmental responsibilities.
turkey plays a key role in europe's geostrategic and energy security and will continue to be a stabilising factor during the crisis.
it is the security of raw material supply that is one of the key elements in sustaining europe's sustainable development.
for its part, europe is a leader in environmental protection and the implementation of green industrial solutions.
the strategic partnership with mexico will strengthen bilateral relations, particularly in terms of more efficient exchange of technology and raw materials, and provides a good basis for bilateral cooperation in the field of environmental protection.
for bulgaria, the €105 million approved for energy security, broadband internet and agriculture is an expression of sympathy and growing confidence in the government's anti-crisis programme.
the first is that cohesion policy is, and should remain, a central pillar for achieving the european union’s sustainable development goals.
that commitment will remain even more relevant in the post-crisis period, when generating green-collar jobs will be the european pass to sustainable employment.
by mobilising under-utilised resources and exploiting comparative advantages, cohesion policy aims to ensure that all european regions, be they lagging behind or not, contribute to overall economic growth and change and to the creation of sustainable jobs, and that all citizens can benefit from the internal market.
all the reports underline the need for cohesion policy to respond to new challenges such as demography, energy, climate and globalisation.
these are key factors for boosting the sustainable competitiveness of the european economy and for generating sustainable jobs and growth.
i am convinced that developing micro-credit schemes is crucial for the sustainable development and competitiveness of european regions and cities.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
at the same time, it is stressed that the funds allocated to energy are extremely insufficient, especially as regards the funds for renewable sources.
at the same time, the report does not reflect our proposal for carbon capture projects, even though the member states agreed last week to support twelve projects in seven countries worth €1.5 billion.
to stimulate the development of this instrument and the creation of a favourable institutional and business environment, to assist non-bank financial institutions to increase their capacity and achieve growth and sustainable development, and to secure the trust of the private capital market.
ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the financial crisis, we are facing today the problems of climate change, demographic change, energy efficiency, over-urbanization, migration and others.
investments in internet infrastructure, restructuring the dairy sector, renewable energy, biodiversity and water conservation are key to solving a large proportion of the problems in these regions and creating alternatives for the people living there.
- madam president, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to express my satisfaction that agreement has been reached between the european parliament and the council on the third energy package, including the regulation on access conditions to the gas transmission networks, on which i am rapporteur.
in the area of access to gas transmission networks, the objectives of the third energy package have been achieved.
the basis for the construction of a common european energy market based on rules detailed in mandatory network codes has been established.
the potential for developing regional cooperation has been increased, where the agency for cooperation between energy regulators will play a key stimulating role alongside the european network of transmission system operators and national regulators.
in particular, i would like to emphasise that the work on the five legislative acts of the third energy package was carried out in close cooperation.
i believe that, on the basis of the third energy package, the unexpected proposals by the european commission to give new substance to the gas security directive, and the gas interconnection projects supported by the economic recovery plan, the european union will be ready at the end of 2008 to respond with more material resources and with greater solidarity to possible supply disruptions.
i believe you will all agree that the greatest achievement of the third energy package is the protection of european consumers and citizens.
i would like to draw particular attention to the definition of energy poverty and the impossibility of interrupting supplies, the possibility of switching suppliers free of charge, and easily accessible and transparent contracts.
in parliament’s committee on industry, energy and research there was a huge majority in favour of this compromise.
− madam president, like my colleagues i would like to say that, although it is not perfect, the third energy package is a very good basis for developing our common market, especially in gas, and for enhancing gas security.
for countries like mine, which is a small country in the european union, to reach a compromise on ownership unbundling is very important, because it gives us an assurance that we can still ensure our energy security within the context of the whole package of the enhanced rules, transparency, the third-country clause, and all the other components of the package that will give us the opportunity to put the issue of energy security at the forefront.
the package also gives an assurance to consumers that they can pursue their rights, and it creates a better competitive framework for the development of the energy markets and for their efficient functioning.
rather, the solution is exact implementation and solidarity among member states in creating the market, especially by developing new initiatives for regional cooperation, especially for countries most vulnerable to energy supplies and to countries that, for the moment, are part of energy islands.
i believe that this document is a good basis for establishing binding standards in the european union on this subject and also for giving assurance to all countries, including those which do not use nuclear energy, that nuclear energy produced in the european union is safe.
i would like to stress that this directive once again underlines the right of each country to choose its energy mix if it wishes to be nuclear energy, which is energy that saves carbon dioxide and is good for the environment.
after almost six years of delay, the eu is now close to adopting a nuclear safety directive, an important policy document for nuclear energy in europe, which produces almost a third of the eu's electricity.
member states have the exclusive right to decide for themselves whether to rely on nuclear energy.
for them, as well as for non-nuclear energy countries, it is equally important to apply the highest safety standards in nuclear energy.
the absence of common nuclear safety requirements in the eu has allowed some eu accession countries in the recent past to be forced to adopt nuclear policy decisions that are now inconsistent with the eu's objectives of limiting climate change and ensuring energy security.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the creation and funding of a permanent european structure to collect and disseminate good practice in the field and to promote dialogue between stakeholders from all over the european union will be a new, important step towards promoting sustainable urban mobility.
of course, there are different views on how we can achieve this, but with its almost unanimous decision - just 1 vote away from a 'yes' - the committee on employment and social affairs has shown that differences are to be overcome on the way to sensible, long-term and sustainable solutions.
as you know, the night time in finland is different from that in italy and flexibility helps to reduce congestion at peak times as well as to alleviate most of the harmful emissions from traffic.
it is clear that, in legislative and executive terms, the european commission and the european parliament are indebted to the european citizens who are ultimately the victims of the pollution that is taking place in our marine areas.
i am looking at things in terms of existing regulations and their application in the protection of the environment, the seas and the associated coasts.
it cannot be accepted as normal that dumping your waste in the sea area and paying a fine costs less than complying with the directive.
i believe that investments in internet infrastructure, in restructuring the dairy sector, in renewable energy, in conserving biodiversity and water resources are key to solving a large percentage of the problems in these regions and creating alternatives for the people living there.
− as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development, i would like to express my satisfaction with the final version of the european energy recovery programme.
the energy recovery programme is very important for the future of our european economies.
the current economic and financial crisis is putting at risk various energy security programmes, which are detrimental to our future economic growth and success.
as a result, the right approach is to provide additional financial incentives for energy projects that help to rebuild our economy, promote security of energy supply and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
this new programme effectively strengthens the energy security of my country bulgaria by providing funding for the nabucco gas pipeline and connecting us to the infrastructure networks of greece and romania.
ladies and gentlemen, our european economies and our infrastructure depend on good access to energy.
in this context, the european energy recovery programme paves the way towards a more efficient and effective energy infrastructure in europe.
i would therefore like to stress once again the need for a common energy policy for the european union.
only together can we be more successful and provide citizens with the energy security they deserve.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr maldeikis, and to stress the importance of projects relating to energy security.
i would like to point out that following the negotiations, my country, which was the most affected by the energy crisis at the beginning of the year, has received some resources, interconnections with greece and turkey, and the resources provided for nabucco and for the reverse gas supply will contribute to security in south-eastern europe.
i believe that these steps by the commission and these proposals are only the beginning of the creation of an energy security policy.
i expect a strategy to improve the gas supply directive and a draft community energy policy to be proposed in the near future.
we have more or less 27 national energy policies and 27 markets with different states of liberalisation.
cooperation between member states on energy issues has been rather complicated.
we provided for the very important common drivers, namely the energy and climate change package and strengthening the european dimension of the european internal energy market.
but the issue of where the money comes from was always there and until now we really have not dedicated substantial sums of money to energy.
due to the financial crisis we are clearly facing delays in a lot of energy- and capital-intensive projects.
additionally, the gas crisis at the beginning of the year again reminded us how vulnerable europe is with regard to its energy supplies and how badly we are interconnected, making it hard to use the scale and scope of the european union.
a recent meeting of baltic prime ministers and the decisions taken there are so vitally important that the baltic countries will no longer be an energy island.
i believe the package provides exactly what the parliament is looking for to achieve three goals: security of supply, sustainability and eu competitiveness.
so i would ask the members of this house to support this proposal, because it really is a significant change in european energy policy.
those challenges are quite in line with my dear colleague mr piebalgs’s ideas on renewable energy in the rural areas, using new technologies, using waste from the agricultural sector to contribute to the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, water, biodiversity and the challenges that we are now facing in the dairy sector in europe.
ladies and gentlemen,the european economic recovery support programme, involving an investment of almost eur 4 billion in energy projects, is timely and will have at least a two-way positive effect - reviving important sectors of the economy and solving major energy problems.
the recent gas crisis has clearly shown that the security of energy supply is directly dependent on the interconnectedness of energy infrastructure between member states, without which it is not possible to provide assistance to the affected countries.
without good links between the countries' systems, neither the creation of a single energy market nor the principle of solidarity in the eu is possible.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that the subject of energy and energy security is a subject which our parliament deals with quite frequently, especially after the situation at the beginning of this year when several countries in the european union were left with virtually no gas supplies.
today we are discussing not so much the technical issues and the details of energy development within the european union, but rather the external aspects of this energy security and the development of the european union in this area, because at the end of the day there are two sides to this question.
and of course we should not underestimate the issue of energy efficiency, which is also an important element of our policy to ensure the energy security of the european union.
unfortunately, the eu still lacks an effective policy on energy security.
it must include, among other elements, the following: - promoting the construction of all gas supply projects in europe that can be realistically financed on a market basis, including south and north stream; - promoting the construction of new capacity contributing to energy independence and reducing co2 emissions, including nuclear and renewable power plants; - the development of common rules for gas supply and transit; - an active policy towards the countries of central asia and the caucasus to secure the supply of caspian gas to europe.
two years ago, europe took the initiative to be a leader in climate change.
a legislative framework exists at european level and initiatives to develop the appropriate technology platform to enable the transition to a low-carbon economy need to be encouraged.
after participating in the parliamentary delegation to washington for the copenhagen negotiations, i found it necessary to discuss the economic effectiveness of climate action.
only when all the parties to the negotiations are convinced that climate action will have a positive economic effect and that their economies will not be harmed will there be a global strategy.
the creation of jobs through investment, research, innovation, green technologies, eco-efficiency must be a factor for sustainable economic development, not the other way around.
we hope for new dynamics in the negotiation process with turkey including opening of the energy chapter.
i also support my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety who have pointed out that tobacco remains the number one cause of death and disease in the european union.
i think it is very appropriate at this moment and it will do very well if it is really applied, as it was adopted in my country bulgaria, because there is currently an extremely unfavourable climate for people with small businesses, with small opportunities, who have no chance of getting a loan from banks.
because only a strong economy that respects the freedom of private property, the rule of law and personal responsibility can guarantee the price of sustainable social policies that our society deserves.
policy conclusions resulting from the public debate on the green paper on territorial cohesion will instead be incorporated in the comprehensive cohesion policy legislative package for post-2013 prepared in the context of the 5th cohesion report, which according to the new treaty is due for submission in 2010. on your question concerning the role of the european social fund in cohesion policy, in pursuing the objective of balanced and sustainable development, cohesion policy plays a crucial role in the delivery of european priorities.
the december 2008 communication of the commission on ‘cohesion policy: investing in real economy’, underlined the importance of the policy for focusing on the eu lisbon agenda delivery, investing in people, business, research and innovation, priority infrastructures and energy.