during this fighting, thousands of innocent people were killed and injured and much destruction to property, infrastructure and the environment has been caused.
when i was asked to prepare a report on de-pollution of the mediterranean, the programmes involved are the following: the mediterranean hotspot investment programme, the strategy for water in the mediterranean, the eu marine strategy, the unep/map, the mediterranean strategy for sustainable development, the mediterranean environmental technical assistance programme, the mediterranean eu water initiative and the myis, which have been running under the umbrella of the horizon 2020 programme.
these are good suggestions, but they seem to fall on deaf ears, because while the israelis do not allow the passage of the above materials into gaza, they have no hesitation in illegally extracting the three quarters of the materials that feed the israeli construction industry from the west bank, ruthlessly destroying the natural environment, while the legitimate owners of the land reap no economic benefit.
a small accident, a small crack in the tank of an oil tanker, if not contained and contained, in the event of vibrations from sea turbulence or difficulty in sucking the cargo into another vessel, can lead to a major ecological disaster if there is no shelter to take appropriate measures.
the energy sector cannot be opened unless turkey stops obstructing the republic of cyprus from exercising its sovereign rights in its exclusive economic zone.
that is why we are in full agreement with the rapporteur when, in paragraph 40 of her report, she calls on turkey ‘to facilitate a suitable climate for negotiations by withdrawing turkish forces and allowing the two leaders to negotiate freely their country’s future’.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
once adopted, the directive will make it possible to fight more effectively against those responsible for marine pollution.
i am even more sensitive than the european parliament to the fact that these small discharges, which, although of minor gravity, can cause, precisely because of their repetitive nature, a real pollution of the marine environment, are punishable by criminal penalties.
the compromise reached on the question of minor repeated infringements clarifies the concept of 'repeated' and can therefore be accepted by the commission, which, i repeat, is pleased with the objective achieved thanks also to the work of the commission services, to the work of my colleagues in parliament, so i think that today we can say that we are satisfied because we are giving a signal in the direction of reducing the pollution of our seas.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
it is incredible that a legal-basis error has caused a delay in the implementation of such an important directive, and has without doubt been detrimental to our marine environment.
− mr president, energy will definitely continue to be the focus of this parliament for the next five years.
at the same time, we have made good progress over the last five years in establishing a robust european energy policy with three goals: security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness.
firstly, eu import dependency – currently, 50% of energy resources come from outside the european union, and the trend is upwards.
secondly, issues related to sustainability.
the climate change goals cannot be achieved anywhere in the world unless energy is produced more cleanly and used more efficiently.
there are always difficulties related to the particular way we operate in the energy field and how a lot of producer countries are organised.
it sounds very interesting that we use the solar energy potential of africa and transport it to the european union, but we need some flanking measures for this project to materialise.
for this reason we will have a conference in october on using renewable sources together with countries from the mediterranean and the gulf.
it will not be one big project but i believe there will be elements that could ultimately fit our objectives: clean energy for the countries involved and additional exports to the european union.
with the renewable energy directive we have established the possibility for eu countries to invest in third countries and transport electricity to the european union, and then the goal will also be fulfilled with energy produced in the third country.
it is a promising move towards a climate change strategy that we need to promote, but nabucco is there for security of supply, and it is too early at this stage to rely on desertec.
this house has been a very strong supporter of energy efficiency.
energy efficiency is not only to do with climate change.
on renewable energy, i am very grateful for the support of this house for the recovery plan, and i am quite positive regarding what i have heard about the applications for offshore wind energy.
it seems that all the funds that were committed to support offshore wind energy will be committed.
i believe this is a very good combination, as renewable energy also gives security of supply.
last but not least, i know that sometimes there is an issue about carbon capture and storage (ccs).
one is as a global response to climate change but, from another point of view, we will also use coal and lignite for our security of supply.
– mr president, we all agree to speak with one voice and have a common foreign policy on the security of energy supply.
it is acknowledged that the energy mix and energy supply differs among member states according to geography and other distinct factors.
the energy dialogue with russia is a necessity based on the pragmatic and equitable principle of security of supply and security of demand.
the eu has also committed to supporting the implementation of the reforms in georgia, including the implementation of the reforms in the field of the environment.
in conclusion, i would point out that, while supporting turkey's accession, cyprus cannot agree to the opening of the energy capital if turkey does not implement its commitments towards the european union and cyprus, if it does not remove the obstacles it places on the republic of cyprus in its attempt to explore its economic space.
finally, the energy chapter cannot be opened while turkey is preventing the republic of cyprus from exercising its sovereign rights in its exclusive economic zone.
the five-year financial framework reduces rural spending while failing to support household savings, cohesion and the fight for climate conservation.
there will be no sustainable military withdrawal from afghanistan unless there is a civilian framework for stability.
the action plan is backed up by a substantial financial resource of just under eur 500 million from the commission until 2013, plus a eur 100 million renewable energy loan from the european investment bank, as well as commitments to deepen our trade and political relations.
we will not tackle this through military action alone but by helping build a secure and safe environment free from the tensions and inequalities that feed extremism.