after all, she's also been putting off energy security talks with russia.
the energy and climate package is a good example of the political will for a europe with vision and determination.
the commission will continue to propose important initiatives this year, for example to better regulate the functioning of financial markets, to launch a new action programme in the area of justice, freedom and security and to propose measures to adapt to climate change.
i am thinking in particular of the proposals relating to the economic and financial crisis, the social package, the internal energy market - the need for which is clearly apparent - and also the telecommunications and road transport package.
i will focus my remarks today on energy and on the economy.
if the agreement sponsored by the european union is not honoured as a matter of urgency, the commission will advise european companies to take this matter to the courts and call on member states to engage in concerted action to find alternative ways of energy supply and transit.
if the agreement is not honoured, it means that russia and ukraine can no longer be considered reliable partners for the european union in matters of energy supply.
in any case, the commission will come forward with further proposals to improve energy security in europe, following our strategic energy review of last november.
implementation of the climate and energy package and the mobilisation of the eur 5 billion of unspent money from the community budget in favour of energy interconnections will also be crucial, and i would like to thank the czech presidency for its support for the fulfilment of this commitment which was taken at the highest level at the last european council.
all the signs are that the economic climate is continuing to worsen.
it means, in particular, swift agreement on the legal proposals in the package, from accelerating the use of the structural funds to the revised european globalisation adjustment fund, and agreement on the release of eur 5 billion of unspent commitments to strategic projects, with a particular focus on energy and energy interconnections.
the russian-ukrainian crisis has made it clearer than ever that filling in the gaps in our energy infrastructure is to the strategic benefit of all europe.
rules to ensure the long-term sustainability of our way of life.
i take as an example of these dogmas a recent article by václav klaus, who advises how to overcome this financial crisis by temporarily weakening social, environmental and health standards, because he says these standards prevent rational human action.
i believe that the opposite is true, that the czech presidency should contribute to the fact that we have a socially and ecologically driven economy here, an economy that will be driven by social and ecological factors.
i cannot believe that as prime minister of a country with such historical experience you want social policy, energy, taxation, justice and security to be decided elsewhere than in the individual member states.
economy, energy and external relations, were chosen perfectly correctly as czech priorities, because what happened at the beginning of this year, i.e.
it has also become clear, what we have not admitted quite so loudly before, that the question of energy security is absolutely crucial to the future of the european union and it is more important than anything else, including, i dare say, the lisbon treaty, because it will neither brighten nor drown us.
the issue of energy security is not a matter for one presidency, but it is a matter for many years, and it is a great challenge and a great honour for the czech republic that this issue can be taken forward.
at the same time, it shows how all three e's are interconnected, because energy security has an impact on the economy, as we know, restrictions will always first affect the economic sphere and also external relations, because without a solidly established eastern partnership, the neighbourhood policy and further enlargement of the european union, for example with turkey, we will not ensure europe's energy security and diversity of resources.
i would like to hear a clear answer to the question whether the czech presidency, whether the czech government, shares the views of president václav klaus, who rejects the lisbon treaty, denies global warming and claims that the current financial and economic crisis has been caused by too much regulation and the existence of social and environmental policies.
i think these are the right priorities, but in order to be able to pursue them in the future, for example in the field of energy security, a greater role for europe in external relations, we need enhanced cooperation and we need the treaty of lisbon.
the czech presidency's priorities include energy security and strengthening the eastern partnership.
the key aspect of this partnership must be to help ukraine to adjust market energy prices negotiated under long-term contracts as quickly as possible.
mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the beginning of the czech presidency was marked by the conflict in gaza and the energy crisis.
i've been lobbying the committee to end the waste of public funds that non-transparent military contracts create.
it is a high price to pay for the short-sighted foreign and energy policy of the european union.
and it's a tribute to the long-term effort to interfere in the national energy policies of individual member countries.
ladies and gentlemen, this is a demonstration of the importance of energy self-sufficiency for the countries of the union.
we should learn from this and not accept the transfer of powers in the energy sector to brussels, as required by the treaty of lisbon.
but the real variables at play are energy, money and military strategy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the text of the question to the commission on the solution to energy efficiency problems by means of information and communication technologies (ict) is available to you, so allow me to make a few comments.
we are only at the beginning of our efforts to increase energy efficiency through ict.
both the financial crisis and the aforementioned disruption of gas supplies to some eu member states create the need to use all available options to address energy challenges in the shortest possible time.
this is also true of the need to significantly increase energy efficiency i.e.
the efficient use of energy with the widest possible use of ict.
it is clear that without their sensible - and i would stress - thoughtful and as varied as possible - efforts, we will not be able to reduce energy consumption or limit adverse climate change.
with the help of specialist laboratories, research institutes, but also representatives of major industries and public administrations in the eu member states, we have tried to map the situation in the use of ict for better energy recovery.
we should not allow the pursuit of energy efficiency to run counter to the eu's ambition to maintain competitiveness and the sustainability of economic development.
it is a fact that reducing energy demand is one of the most effective means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
but we're also moving in terms of smart grids, smart buildings, more efficient energy measurement.
in short, we may be hard-pressed to find a field where energy efficiency cannot be improved by the development of ict.
the document only confirms that all our efforts to tackle the eu's energy challenges are closely linked and interrelated.
i am pleased to note that we already have many examples in the eu of successful use of ict to achieve more efficient use of energy.
and these words are also absolutely true of the overall energy policy dealt with in mrs laperrouze's report.
yes, we would all like to see energy consumption addressed entirely by renewable sources.
similarly, they're trying to push through a document that says a staggering 80 percent reduction in emissions by 2050 instead of the more realistic 50 to 80 percent.
the attempts of the anti-nuclearists to exclude this emission-free and vital source for europe from the overall energy mix are also repeated.
finally, i think it is important to try to better link up energy networks, for example with the baltic states.
i would like to look at two points which i think have not been discussed yet, namely that we need an integrated energy system in europe which will link the different types of energy, which will link the different networks so that we can replace any possible outages.
and the second thing is that we need these energy networks to be linked to similar networks in other areas, i.e.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union currently imports 50% of the energy it consumes, and this share is growing.
the union's dependence on imports of conventional energy sources and on a limited number of suppliers poses a serious threat to our security, stability and prosperity.
the strategic analysis of the european union's energy policy therefore comes at the right time in my view.
i believe that the triple target for 2020 is the right one from a safety, economic and environmental point of view.
the completion of the ratification of the treaty of lisbon and the presentation of a draft of this common energy policy are necessary to establish a common energy policy.
in the internal market, in addition to the creation of a clear and stable legal framework, the main task is to complete the interconnection of our energy systems throughout the european union.
the mutual solidarity clause will remain an empty phrase unless we link these energy systems.
the use of all domestic energy sources must also be strengthened, from savings to an increase in the share of renewable sources and a stronger use of safe nuclear energy.
it goes without saying that financial investment in our domestic energy sector will also be returned in the form of a restart of economic growth.
as regards external energy relations, there is also a need for much greater diversification than has been the case so far.
i believe this will increase the interest of smes in designing innovative solutions to improve public transport, healthcare, reduce energy consumption in buildings, or enable the development of devices to protect citizens from security threats without having to compromise their privacy.
this is the first time that the union has taken energy security into account in the context of the liberalisation of the gas market.
major infrastructure projects such as the nabucco pipeline, which is to link the caspian region to europe, will not be possible without large vertically integrated energy companies and their investments.
madam president, i want to thank carlo florenz for his commitment and the democratic way in which he has led the european parliament's special committee on climate change.
climate change is underway, and there is no doubt that at the present level of civilization we can control it, and it is our responsibility to future generations to find a consensus on effective measures.
the earth's climate has changed, it is changing, and it will change whether we like it or not.
the florence report argues that the climate commitments the eu made in 2007 are insufficient and need to be further increased.
if the eu is the only part of the world that reduces its emissions, the goal of reducing global emissions can never be achieved.
madam president, allow me to explain why i voted against the florenz report on climate change.
policies relating to climate change are based to a large extent on alarmist ideologies.
the evidence for climate change is controversial.
man is seen as a creature who is harmful to the environment without making a beneficial contribution.
the few amendments to the report calling for further progress on nuclear energy, and supporting headway on nuclear fusion, can hardly mitigate its negative impact on the whole european economy and agriculture.
the european union has already achieved the first results of a common energy policy.
in 2015, emissions auctions are launched, renewable energy programs are launched.
only the adoption of the lisbon treaty will allow for a more efficient management of europe's energy priorities, and these are changing.
energy supplies must not be a source of political blackmail.
the second priority is to increase the share of clean energy and renewable resources, so these technologies, but also the core and its safe operation and waste disposal, must be the target of investment in research.
climate change is a fact.
similarly, the impact of human activity, which this report also cites as the main cause of climate change, is being questioned by some in the scientific community.
as far as the individual chapters are concerned, the energy chapter is somewhat incomplete.
it correctly acknowledges the limitations of fossil fuel resources, but it fails to address the key issue of ensuring sufficient energy in a situation where global energy consumption is expected to increase by 60% by 2030. it is therefore clear that it will be necessary to start building nuclear power plants in the near future.
this single source of clean energy, which is now recognised as being able to be produced on a large scale, has its ideological opponents in the ep.
yet since the mastery of fusion, nuclear power has no alternative to clean energy.
france's return to nato military structures, combined with the energy devoted to european security and defence policy, is an excellent opportunity to align the european security strategy with a possible new strategy for nato.
for example, by controlling tyre pressure we will reduce fuel consumption and thus emissions, by introducing advanced electronic control systems in 2011 we will reduce the number of accidents on european roads a year earlier, noise reduction is another benefit, and this is both for tyres and road design.
mr president, i have consistently pointed out that the excessive cost of raising environmental standards for european producers reduces competitiveness and undermines employment unless china, brazil, the usa and other economies also commit to similar standards.
i will vote against extending the scope of this emissions reduction directive to households and small businesses, small farms, and even schools, churches, etc.
the barcelona objectives aim to increase the employment of mothers, but in no way are they aimed at improving the environment for children and at helping these children to better manage and overcome life crises in the future.
the council should adopt at its spring session a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development and a new set of economic, social and environmental policies to support investment in particular in quality of work, skills upgrading, infrastructure support programmes, cohesion policy, environmental protection and improvement of occupational health.
the incoming council should also reject the barroso commission's green-lobbying plan for massive multi-billion dollar support for renewable energy.
if the czech presidency wants to be credible and useful in its slogan 'europe without barriers', it should immediately review all eu legislation and remove all kinds of environmental, gender, social and labour restrictions instead of holding more summits.
ladies and gentlemen, in my short speech today i shall concentrate on one important area which i hope will be successfully discussed and dealt with at the european council, and that is energy policy.
we all know that the european union needs to strengthen its energy security and independence, it needs to strengthen its energy infrastructure, that is to say, to link and extend oil and gas pipelines, energy pipelines between individual countries and regions, that we need to increase oil and gas reserves.
we want to increase the share of renewable resources, we want to increase the energy efficiency of buildings and products, we want to increase investment in research and in measures to mitigate the impacts of climate change.
i am convinced that the measures and investments that need to be made in the field of energy policy can not only solve the energy and climate problems, but also, in a time of economic crisis, have a very positive and powerful impact on the start-up of economic growth and on the increase of employment.
but i do not understand why it is not possible to negotiate with turkey, for example, on the chapter on energy, which is vital for both the european union and turkey.
scrap metal helps reduce emissions, increases road safety and prevents unemployment in the automotive industry, which provides a livelihood for 12 million workers and hundreds of thousands of businesses in other sectors.
if we have imposed on the automotive industry in cars 21 to achieve high environmental and safety objectives, scrapping, especially in times of crisis, is a good content for the joint action of european governments and should be financed from common funds.
i therefore object to the proposals concerning animal and environmental protection, feed and genetically modified food.
i appreciate the focus on strengthening energy security, the energy interconnections of europe and the overall emphasis on the development of infrastructure in this area.
i think it is right that the irreplaceable role of nuclear energy has been reasserted.
although the views on this kind of energy, among others, in our political group, differ diametrically.
i also welcome the fact that she's postponed the decision on climate finance.
in this context, i would like to commend the statement by the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, that the european union should not make any climate commitments unless other countries, in particular the us and china, do the same.
we have an ideal historic opportunity to work with our partners in america on all the issues that are in the global world today, from the economy to the environment to conflict resolution in the middle east, afghanistan and so on.
it is a pity that the preparations for copenhagen have been delayed, the czech presidency has not taken advantage of our work on the energy and climate package.
financial and economic crises, the problems of global warming, the problems of terrorism, the proliferation of nuclear weapons, the unresolved problems and conflicts in the middle east, iraq, afghanistan and many other problems.
finally, on the question of nuclear energy, i can tell you that a commission delegation did visit belarus in november last year.
we have had a dialogue on energy and exchanged views on the question of international security and safety at the highest level.
as the epp-ed shadow rapporteur, i am pleased that the report also reflects our main priorities in relation to russia, such as pragmatic cooperation based on a healthy market environment, the emphasis on human rights, the functioning of the rule of law and democracy, which are fundamental to the eu as a community of values, the emphasis on respect for the sovereignty of all neighbours and the unity of the european union.
the inappropriate anti-russian text partially preserves the objective expression of the committee on industry, research and energy, which could become a guide in the formulation of a new document.
‘independently of the adoption of the ecolabel regulation, the commission confirms that it intends to propose a regulation on ecolabelling of fishery products before the end of this year, to be mainly based on criteria for sustainable fishing.
the level of education attained has a direct impact on young people's employability and therefore their participation in society, and we cannot afford to waste this potential, even in the current economic crisis.
ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to deal with the whole of the so-called energy package in the limited time available.
i would like to make a personal comment on the material presented by mr chichester on the establishment of an agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
we call on the international community to join in promoting the concrete, realistic disarmament initiatives that the european union presented to the un general assembly in 2008.we also need to address the issue of nuclear energy.
it is important that the development of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes takes place under conditions of maximum safety, security and non-proliferation standards.
for the european union, the npt is based on three mutually reinforcing pillars: non-proliferation, disarmament and the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
the logic of coherent programmes is very much in line with the g8 global partnership goals that were defined in 2002, where the commission committed eur 1 billion for the 10-year period 2002-2013. finally, initiatives to build a new model for civil nuclear cooperation should also be encouraged so that countries can get access to nuclear energy without increasing the risks of proliferation.
in conclusion, the commission is working quite hard in supporting all three pillars of the non-proliferation treaty, and, indeed, both the time and the international climate are ripe for change in the way we handle nuclear issues.
– madam president, we are discussing the report on energy labelling, which is of the utmost importance for several reasons.
firstly, increasing energy efficiency is the quickest and the most cost-effective way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
secondly, energy efficiency can be part of the solution to the current economic recession: addressing energy demand and energy use can help create long-lasting growth and solid job opportunities.
the same holds true for the intention to reinforce the provisions on market surveillance in order to ensure proper and eu-wide harmonised enforcement of the energy labelling directive and its implementing measures.
our solution is to give producers and retailers the possibility of providing information on specific energy-consumption-saving aspects.
this initiative, opposed by industry, the commission and the council, would impair the coherence of the new energy labelling legislation as a whole.
let me conclude by stressing that the report on energy labelling is a very important piece of legislation that is worth adopting, provided that the advertising issue is tackled in a satisfactory manner.
madam president, i have spoken on this floor on energy issues on several occasions and this may be my final remark at this stage.
i think we should thank commissioner piebalgs, who has had a very difficult task, because to make the 27 individual energy markets of the individual member states a european energy market is an admirable task, a sisyphean task that will not end even with this period and will certainly leave a lot of work for our successors.
i would like to say that as far as our committee on industry, research and energy is concerned, he was one of the favourite commissioners.
i hope we have not used the commissioner too much, because i believe we will certainly meet him in future periods, and commissioner piebalgs has really done a lot of work to enable us to talk about the european energy market at all.
i support energy labelling, it's a necessary standard, and i think that the guilt about who belongs or doesn't belong to some industry lobby should go away.
the proposal under discussion to support economic recovery through community financial assistance for energy projects is part of the european economic recovery plan, which provides for the allocation of a total of eur 30 billion.
this public investment plan of eur 5 billion envisages directing mainly to energy infrastructure, high-speed internet connections, and agricultural restructuring.
because by rejecting it, we could ultimately cause not only no money for energy-efficient projects, but no money to ensure a safe supply of gas to our homes.
unfortunately, even in democratic societies, these companies often fail because of commercial interests or because their management belongs to a certain political environment and indirectly forces their employees to self-censor.
on the other hand, the enormous development of the internet and the dissemination of cinema and information through it offer a truly free media environment with a pluralism, free of monopolies and cartels.
on the plus side, i would mention the energy policy already mentioned.
as regards energy, the issue of security and sustainability of supply of energy raw materials has proved to be a prudent topic.
in the first days of the czech presidency, the immediate crisis in gas supply was successfully tackled, but with the understanding that a real shift in this issue requires immediate follow-up with long-term strategic measures, including diversification of resources and liberalisation in the internal energy market.
he is a man who does not waste the noble phrases we have heard here during the various presidencies, and who acts with deliberation.
these include, for example, roaming or energy packages and crisis measures.
i would also like to thank the commissioner for her approach in such a very complex case as we are discussing here today, which is creating an extremely complex environment for dealing with such economic situations in the future.
this is due to low or no social and environmental standards.
is the commission also prepared to press korea to accept international commitments on social and environmental standards before it receives the full benefits of free trade with the european union?
one can see that not so long ago you were a member of this house and so you like this environment very much!
a year ago we finished preparing the climate package, and this is certainly the most far-reaching legislation in the world and the most ambitious in the world.
it describes the need to strengthen the role of the european parliament, it describes the need to prepare for adaptation to climate change, we definitely have to agree with the article that talks about deforestation, and i would just like to emphasize that deforestation is not and has not been a problem of the developing world only, but it is also a problem of europe, so we should focus on that.
we're talking about helping the poorest countries, and that's certainly fine, but when you look at the numbers today, when you look at the production of greenhouse gases, it's clear to you that europe, even if it's more self-serving, if we really shut down all our resources, we're not going to change anything about climate change, we don't have a chance of mitigating that effect.
the eu is a world leader in the fight against climate change.
if developing countries are to be allocated €30 billion per year by 2020 for their efforts to mitigate climate change, then climate justice and solidarity must be the objective of this measure.
even in the ep, not everyone is convinced that climate change is a real threat.
without understanding the reality of climate change and its consequences in the target countries, our aid becomes a mere bribe for our well-being to the governments of those countries whose people do not have that well-being.
in times of crisis, the appointment of a new commission is held back, parliament lacks powers to deal with the budget, national parliaments cannot yet issue yellow and red cards, we do not use new powers to fight epidemics or energy crises, to fight terrorism and organised crime, or to adopt new principles in civil protection and humanitarian aid.
for example, russia is held responsible for the success of the copenhagen climate conference.
there's a budget deficit, there's inflationary pressures, and of course, this country also faces a lot of consequences from the past, for example, it has a big problem with the environmental damage that was caused by the airstrikes of the north atlantic alliance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for being one of the politicians who has highlighted the importance of the european parliament for the forthcoming summit and for climate policy and climate change as such.
by adopting today's resolution on the copenhagen summit on climate change, parliament has clearly indicated that we attach particular importance to this issue.
in a pious effort to reduce co2 emissions, you can't put blinders on and walk over the corpses of industrial enterprises.
i would not consider such a fanciful approach to be a sustainable path for the whole of europe.
given that 25% of total co2 emissions are attributable to road transport and that 30% of total fuel consumption of vehicles is derived from their tyres, the introduction of mandatory tyre labelling is a key tool in the fight for a healthier environment.
the ep's decision today will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by up to four million tonnes a year.
the money used in this way is not a solution to the problem but is actually a waste of taxpayers' money.
well-known examples of wrongdoing, including on elected officials, coupled with the illegal practices of the u.s. administration have created an unstable environment.
fourth, we should give greater support to the environmental dimension of our cooperation.
intelligent transport systems that free cities from traffic collapse, navigation support mechanisms that make urban tourism attractive, tele-assistance systems that allow seniors to stay longer in their home environment, these are all types of investments that should be given the green light.