despite the known difficult environment and the scarcely tangible progress, it was possible to assume until a few weeks ago that we were in a negotiating logic.
the directive on the sustainable use of plant protection products, which is now in force, is a major step towards greater common ground in european environmental and consumer protection.
sustainability as the guiding principle of our european agriculture guarantees healthy food and a healthy environment.
the choice of the best technology and proven planting equipment protects the environment and the user and contributes to the success of the farm by producing good harvests.
the measures envisaged are in the interests of the environment, consumers and users.
it reconciles environmental and economic policy, and i hope that tomorrow we will be able to make our demands clearer in a clear vote.
the agreement is a milestone, a milestone for european health protection, consumer protection, but also for the environment and the economy.
the cut-off for pbt substances is a successful environmental protection measure.
it is not only a milestone for environmental and consumer protection in europe, i think it is also a great moment for europe.
we hope, however, that this will encourage member states to enter into competition with each other to see who is most prepared to take plant protection and sustainable management seriously.
the commission will no longer be concerned with nearly 80% of all active substances, but only those which pose a risk to human health or the environment, and this on a scientific basis.
this will ensure that there are enough plant protection products available in the future to ensure sustainable farming.
the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
we have a uniformly high level of protection without jeopardizing sustainable agricultural production within europe.
this is a major step forward which, in addition to protecting the health of european citizens and the environment, will bring economic benefits due to reduced costs to national health systems, and another benefit will be the reduced use of pesticides resulting from this legislation.
others can be linked to environmental issues or the protection of workers, which fall under the sovereignty of third countries where the pesticide is used.
coming back to the directive which we are hopefully about to adopt, the commission considers the final compromise to be properly balanced, to achieve the objectives of health and environmental production, as well as to ensure the availability of pesticides to farmers.
we now need objective risk assessments that strike a balance between legitimate health and environmental needs and legitimate economic and food security concerns, including in a global context.
it brings more pan-european action together and calls for targeted action by member states to guarantee the sustainable use of plant protection products.
i can only say once again: i am sticking to it, it is a milestone for environmental and consumer protection, and above all it is a great moment for europe.
so there is no reason to continue to create a climate of panic and fear!
let us really celebrate this success, which we hope we are all achieving here for the benefit of the citizens of europe, for the environment, for health protection.
urban transport plays a central role in the context of climate change.
it is responsible for about 70% of all greenhouse gases in cities.
only with a different transport policy will the eu be able to achieve its own climate objectives.
secondly, we want to grant eu funds only if cities can present a sustainable mobility plan.
this is not only good for the climate, it also reduces the number of accidents, because every year 40 000 people die on europe's roads.
social and environmental regulation, that is not a position against markets, but for fair markets and that is regulated markets.
euro area economies are better protected against adverse economic developments because membership of the euro area is a mark of quality certifying to its members a real capacity to implement prudent macroeconomic policies and policies geared towards sustainable growth and prosperity for its citizens.
the european commission and this parliament must continue to work together with the member states, the eurogroup, the european central bank and also with the international community to put our economies on the path to a sustainable recovery of growth.
secondly, the accession to the european union has significantly improved the investment climate in latvia.
every entrepreneur and consumer can operate in a free environment without borders and customs duties.
it allows us all to work together actively to find solutions to global challenges, climate and demographic change, energy security, migration and financial crises, all on a global scale.
at european level, we have a significant advantage in coordinating our activities, in taking common action and in finding a sustainable solution.
ladies and gentlemen, in the first days of the czech presidency, the question of energy security has become a new topic.
energy security and sustainable energy sources are on the european and global political agenda at all times.
energy security has a strong external dimension.
in the recent past, the member states of the european union have considered energy as a national issue rather than an eu issue.
the energy developments of recent years, the interruption of energy supplies, the decline in energy resources and the fluctuation of prices have contributed to a common understanding among the member states of the european union of the need for a common energy policy.
at the intersection of energy and policy, the key is to ensure a regular, sufficient, economic and sustainable supply of environmentally friendly energy.
in some areas, such as the development of an environmentally friendly energy economy, we have set ambitious targets at european level that need to be met.
in other areas, we are only at the beginning of the diversification of energy sources and the integration of energy markets at european level.
it is our collective responsibility to use this shared understanding to create a truly integrated and diversified european energy market.
energy security can only be successfully addressed through active dialogue with transit and supply countries.
another area where serious work is needed is the integration of the baltic energy market with the energy markets of scandinavia and central europe.
the energy market is stagnating.
the initiative to strengthen energy security and solidarity also includes the development of a baltic energy market interconnection plan.
this will allow the baltic states to be gradually integrated into the single european energy market.
the environment in which we have to do this has changed.
this enabled latvia, lithuania and slovakia to join the european union on 1 may 2004. you have raised the question of energy, and i will give you a short answer.
the commission is also aware of the problems of the environment.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
the objectives of this package of legislation, these two directives transfer and granting directive that we are discussing today, will ensure that it is not just about competitiveness, but that it also stops the waste of taxpayers' money in arms production and that corruption is prevented.
but it was also important for us that the results were sustainable for all 27 member states.
finally, we are once again reminded of the question of energy security.
as a country dependent on imported gas and oil and a former eastern bloc state, we understand very well the importance of energy security as a condition not only of economic prosperity but also of a free and independent foreign policy.
or the lack of interconnection of energy networks, which prevents the improvement of energy security and the deepening of the internal energy market.
the czech republic will pursue these overarching objectives during the six months of its presidency, implementing three main programme areas, the three czech e: 1. economy, 2. energy and 3. the european union in the world.
if e is the energy in physics, then g is the symbol for gravitational acceleration.
only an economically strong and influential eu can address important issues of global politics, security, trade or the environment.
and we must not forget about investing in education, research, development and innovation, improving the regulatory environment and reducing the administrative burden.
second e: energy the second priority, like the first, is in the context of current developments.
but the impending energy shortage would destroy not only europe's economy, but also our freedom and security, both immediately and in the long term.
the czech presidency will continue its efforts to ensure a secure, competitive and sustainable energy for europe.
in the field of energy security, we would like to focus on three dimensions of this issue: firstly, the completion of the second strategic energy review, which includes an analysis of the medium-term energy demand and supply in the eu and, on this basis, the identification of appropriate infrastructure projects.
secondly, to complete the directive on the maintenance of minimum stocks of oil and petroleum products, where we support the increase of the mandatory minimum stocks from 90 to 120 days, and thirdly, to review the trans-european energy networks (tens-e), where the green paper on european energy networks is also part of the energy security legislation package adopted by the ec in november 2008. the reinforcement of infrastructure in the territory of the member states, including existing cross-border interconnections and the implementation of new interconnections of energy networks, is equally important.
we must also seek to diversify the energy mix, including nuclear rehabilitation and investment in new technologies.
the agreement we brokered to establish a monitoring mechanism for the transit of russian gas is a demonstration of the ability to achieve energy security in practice.
the eu's energy mix needs to be diversified.
the development of safe nuclear energy needs to be seriously considered.
as regards the legislative priorities in this area, we want to conclude the third package for the internal energy market, i.e.
another area is energy efficiency, which the swedish presidency intends to tackle in greater depth, thus making the trio of france, the czech republic and sweden tackle the energy issue in a truly comprehensive and all-round way.
although this priority is called energy, it is inextricably linked to climate policy.
in the context of the coming economic recession and supply crisis, it will be particularly important to align environmental, competitiveness and safety requirements.
this cooperation will allow us to diversify our foreign trade and supply of energy resources.
the czech presidency will therefore place emphasis on intensive dialogue with the new us administration in key areas of the economy, climate and energy, as well as cooperation with third countries (pakistan, afghanistan, russia, middle east).
the european union cannot allow itself to be divided into its individual parts if it wishes to play the global role described by the president of the commission, for example in the question of energy security or the conflict in gaza.
but let me take one aspect of your speech: energy security.
i agree with you: energy is the staple of modern society.
we cannot depend on energy supplies.
we need a good mix of different energy sources to be independent.
i therefore hope that your open and frank approach will be able to encourage the european partners to have a new debate on nuclear energy and, above all, to encourage the german government to withdraw from nuclear energy.
the current political, economic and environmental developments would present a major challenge for any council presidency.
how can you make energy policy without the basis provided for in the lisbon treaty?
i would therefore like to stress the importance of what has been expressed as a strategic concept in the context of energy security.
but, mr president-in-office, we will not have responsibility for energy and energy security until the treaty of lisbon.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to say first of all that the czech presidency of the council has had a very difficult start and that in the context of this renewed gas crisis you could not have made up any better in these weeks for the lack of clarification in the past years on european energy policy.
we are all being told that this oft-quoted word 'external energy policy' stands for something that does not exist in europe as a common strategy.
we have spent weeks, months, worrying about how we are going to respond to the climate issue, and we have not given enough thought to the fact that there is also a very important third political project, which is the security of supply.
what have we done to ensure that europe has a better energy mix, that we are less dependent?
we have even discredited coal plants with our climate policy, and we have increased our dependence on gas.
what have we done to protect nuclear energy more effectively?
what has happened in the field of energy policy?
it is the highest railway that we care about and that is the effect of these days in energy policy to care about the issue of security of supply.
i was not silent when we were discussing energy security and i was not silent in the past when we were discussing the khodorkovsky case and other cases.
we can simply create a certain environment to keep up the pressure, but it is up to russia to respond.
trade policies should also contribute to the union’s environmental and climate objective, in particular by encouraging the expansion of trade in environmental goods and services.
we are now seeing the problems of energy dependence.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the allocated assets were aimed for srebrenica recovery including construction, reconstruction, infrastructure development, business promotion, improvement of public services, projects with sustainable return and education.
secondly, there will be more mass livestock farming with all the negative effects on the environment, and thirdly, there will be methane production, because most of the meat will be beef.
cattle produce methane, and that's bad for the world's climate.
it is therefore our task as the eu to move things forward with energy and determination, rather than becoming again a fragmented debate club, as we have unfortunately been in recent years on the question of middle east policy.
the second review of the energy strategy is timely in the light of the recent gas crisis.
the security of supply and solidarity between member states must be central to european energy policy.
but it is of fundamental importance to us social democrats in the european parliament that the eu member states pay special attention to the most vulnerable consumers in society, those who suffer from energy poverty, even in normal times.
the report stresses the particular importance of energy saving and energy efficiency.
the most effective and cost-effective way to improve security of supply is clearly to increase energy efficiency and save energy.
at the same time, we need to set ambitious and realistic targets for europe's energy future.
i am glad that we are doing this, among other things, with the call for 60% renewable energy by 2050. it also stresses the particular importance of local initiatives for successful climate and energy policy.
we need a functioning internal energy market with fair competition, guaranteeing both free access to the grid and equal distribution of energy to all producers.
we need the establishment and expansion of an intelligent electricity grid, as ict-supported combined-cycle power plants and decentralized energy production.
this is the only way to ensure that energy is used efficiently where it is needed.
that is why my group has tabled an amendment which clearly emphasizes the common interest in nuclear safety, but at the same time stresses that it must remain the sovereignty of the member states whether they invest in nuclear energy.
i say, as a personal comment, we don't need this energy.
i regret to say that, despite a very good working atmosphere in the strategic energy review, we have not achieved the corrections to the commission's proposal that i would have thought necessary.
i think the title of the strategic energy review is very promising.
at the heart of this strategic energy planning - and unfortunately the laperrouze report does not correct this - is the old energy mix of coal and nuclear, and in fact it once again places extreme emphasis on the nuclear pillar.
the fact that finland is currently facing one of the largest bankruptcies in the history of the nuclear industry in western europe, that the sum in dispute between the finnish energy company and areva now amounts to 2.4 billion because of so many additional costs incurred in olkiluoto, you do not seem to be thinking about that at all.
i believe that this very coal-nuclear mix is the strategy that has led the european union's energy policy to a dead end.
i have said enough about nuclear energy, but the wasteful use of fossil fuels - and this review does not really address this issue - has led us to climate catastrophe, and the essential corrections to this old strategy of yesterday are not included in this review.
we wanted to make this efficiency target of saving 20% of primary energy finally binding.
we are waiting for a serious proposal to develop the supergrid, a network which must be able to absorb very large renewable energy production capacities in the north sea, on the coasts or in the south from the desert regions.
we also believe that it is a big mistake that the entire transport sector has been excluded from this strategic energy planning because we want to get away from dependence on oil, as you do.
we believe that this question should be a central point in this strategic energy planning.
i was shocked last week to see that the european commission's recovery plan addresses all these strategic imbalances, the backward-looking of this strategic energy review.
i would like to announce on behalf of my group that we will not support the laperrouze report or the strategic energy plan and will try to promote sustainability and rationality in the recovery plan.
perhaps we have been too preoccupied with other energy policy issues in the past year.
differentiated means that there is not just one energy source, but that we will work with several for a long time.
it's not morally right to give up a source of energy.
i think it is irresponsible to ignore nuclear energy.
i also ask that we not lightly abandon coal - an energy source we have in our country and in several places in europe - and say: coal means co2, so it cannot be.
it would be fatal - and it is a mistake in some energy policy decisions - to give too little space and too little support to those who have to invest the money, namely the companies.
we need more background information concrete studies on the situation of victims in the social environment, where often families themselves abuse and put children in the net.
i think it can also restore a better climate in transatlantic relations and can respond to feelings which were articulated very strongly in this parliament, as well as among a substantial part of public opinion in europe.
the next item is the report by karl-heinz florenz on behalf of the standing committee on climate change on 2050: the future starts today recommendations for a future integrated eu climate policy (2008/2105 (ini)) (a6-0495/2008).
in particular, good morning to the colleagues who have been working on this climate report for months!
we have not discussed this with experts in a group, but we have discussed it with people in the transport sector, we have discussed it with people in the economic sector and of course also with people in the energy sector.
that is the opportunity: the opportunity to make it clear to the citizen that he himself contributes one third of this climate change, for example, by heating his house.
that is why the report concludes by saying that it is a pioneering report and that it shows the way forward - especially for europe, because we have a huge environmental technology in europe, the volume of which is comparable to that of the european automobile industry.
i remember very well the international climate conference in poznan and the very weak role played by the europeans in poznan, because they were busy downsizing their ambitious promises and announcements from the bali international negotiations and how they were busy putting climate policy on the back burner in the face of the looming financial and economic crisis.
i think next year the decision will be made whether we are really ready, because of the knowledge about climate change, to correct the way we do business in the developed world, as we have promised to do now and again.
i think the decision about whether we're going to move towards sustainability or not is not yet made.
ban ki-moon and achim steiner made a very strong appeal in poznan to link all the measures taken by the states with their economic programmes, with their bank rescue packages, with the programming against poverty in the developing countries and against the terrible consequences of climate change in the developing countries, but also with measures for a really ambitious climate protection and a new energy policy.
it is by no means certain that europe is on the way to the modern society of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
i hope we can continue to discuss this in the same constructive way as we did in the climate committee, but i am not sure.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mr karl-heinz florenz very much for his report, which unfortunately did not make much of a dent, which is probably due to the fact that it was discussed very much in the shadow of the climate change package.
we must face the consequences of climate change, no question, but i cannot agree with the report on all points in the choice of means.
firstly, it is right that the eu is taking the first steps on climate action, but it is not constructive to go it alone without involving partners.
otherwise, europe's economy will be left unilaterally burdened with no measurable impact on global co2 emissions.
secondly, renewable energy cannot, as far as we know, completely replace fossil fuels.
one good thing about the climate debate is that it acts as a catalyst for the transition to the renewable energy age.
studies and scientists who approach the issue of climate change with less bleak scenarios or perhaps even positive ones were simply not heard in the committee.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
and anyone who calls for protective suits against climate change is deliberately trying to create fear.
i can also support the report because i am interested in environmental protection - it is best if it is linked to social achievements and economic competitiveness.
the climate committee did a good job.
today we have the final report to vote on, how we as the european parliament envisage future climate policy, what action needs to be taken in terms of adaptation to climate change.
the fight against climate change cannot be waged by europe alone, but other continents and other countries must be brought on board.
the committee has also done a very good job here, because we have become visible as a parliament for the first time in terms of climate diplomacy, and i would like to emphasise this again at this point.
i have to say, madam president, taking the consequences of climate change seriously means listening to all the different positions, including the science.
a já tady považuji za velmi pozitivní to, že hlasy, které vyzývají k odkladu našich dlouhodobých cílů, které by nás měly odvést od té cesty k ochraně klimatu, jsou velmi sporadické, a naopak v drtivé většině – a i tady v evropském parlamentu a děkuji za to – zní hlasy, které říkají, pojďme této koincidence využít jako příležitosti, protože je to strategie, která obsahuje šestkrát „win“, je to „win, win,win, win, win,win“ strategie, protože jestliže v reakci na hospodářskou a finanční krizi jednotlivé ekonomiky, a i ti nejkonzervativnější ekonomové jsou připraveni povolit kohouty, investovat do ekonomiky, tak je to příležitost investovat do toho, abychom transformovali naši dnešní ekonomiku v nízkouhlíkovou ekonomiku a podpořili moderní environmentální technologie.
protože snížíme naši závislost na dovozech energií, protože snížíme spotřebu neobnovitelných přírodních zdrojů, protože vytvoříme nová pracovní místa – a podívejme se na to, že různé plány v evropě, které reagují na finanční a hospodářskou krizi, ve významné části přinášejí nová pracovní místa právě v té oblasti green jobs a v oblasti nových environmentálních technologií obnovitelných zdrojů energií a energetických úspor – a zároveň snížíme emise skleníkových plynů.
když porovnám environmentální politiku v 70. letech, kdy jsme se opírali o zákazy a příkazy a především jsme používali tzv.
as the title of your report indicates, what happens to the world’s climate in 2015 and beyond will depend on what action the international community decides now.
we need to communicate the scientific findings to a broader public, and enhance consumer awareness of greenhouse gas impacts on lifestyles and consumption patterns.
such increased awareness, however, needs to be accompanied by strong economic incentives for business to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the goods and services they provide.
a transition to a low-carbon economy is needed at a global scale, and can only be achieved through comprehensive and integrated action to address emissions in all sectors.
only by being ambitious now can we keep the door open to stabilising concentrations of greenhouse gases at lower levels, should the ipcc in future indicate that this is necessary.
2009 will be a crucial year for the global climate change negotiations.
there are about 15 measures that we need to take through comitology; there is a list of deadlines in the revised ets that we are going to meet: for example, the list of sectors for carbon leakage should be ready by december 2009. there will be a big stakeholders’ meeting on 30 march 2009. the bulk of the work will be done during the summer and, by the end of 2009, we shall have this list dealt with.
but 2009, as i said, is going to be a crucial year for the global climate change negotiations.
the world is expected to agree on further international action to tackle climate change at the copenhagen climate change conference in december.
the climate change and energy package gave us a head start in this transition and provided an excellent basis to prove that ambitious climate policy is not only possible but also broadly beneficial to our economies and societies.
it is clear that the climate change challenge cannot be solved without significantly stepping up the financing of, and investment in, clean technology, as well as measures to adapt to the inevitable climate change impacts.
for instance, the major part of reductions in the energy sector will come from efficiency improvements that will pay for themselves.
another significant part of additional financing and investment will be mobilised through the carbon market, both from the proceeds of the future auctioning of carbon allowances and via carbon credits under the cdm.
the european union in its climate and energy package has created significant demand for cdm credits until 2020. this is likely to spur the deployment of clean technologies in developing countries.
without this assistance they will not be able to sufficiently reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
without this assistance the poorest and most vulnerable will suffer the consequences of climate change.
in addition to our contributions to the united nations negotiations, we see that, following the success of the european union’s emissions trading system, carbon markets are being established in many parts of the world.
in autumn 2008, shortly after his election, us president obama reaffirmed his goal to create a us-wide carbon market.
together, these trading systems could form the nucleus of an evolving future global carbon market.
as i have already stressed, the european union’s challenge now is to facilitate the development of such linked carbon markets, in particular among oecd countries by 2015. in the copenhagen communication, the commission has addressed these questions by putting forward concrete proposals – proposals that are not only ambitious but also realistic, and will make a significant contribution to the success in copenhagen that our planet so desperately needs.
let me conclude by taking this opportunity to thank the temporary committee on climate change, mr florenz and parliament for their strong support for our proposals and for the seriousness and speed with which they have handled the package.
you were conducting delicate mediation talks at the time with the aim of saving the government of national unity which you had formed with energy and foresight.
- i abstained on the report on climate change.
this includes extensive measures to safeguard the future of all communities in kosovo, thereby creating a basis for sustainable economic and political development.
this money will also contribute to improving the local capacity to reintegrate returnees into the local social and economic environment.
the opening of a multi-ethnic european university college will receive our support once all local stakeholders reach an agreement to make this effort a sustainable project.
the commission is actively assisting in finding a swift and sustainable solution acceptable to all.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in my view, the first thing that matters in the economic crisis is to link crisis management to the global challenge of the climate crisis.
we would be making a big mistake if our economic measures were to be as unambitious in pursuing climate protection and energy security objectives as we have been in regulating co2 emissions from cars.
i think our goal really has to be to make it clear to the companies that the future belongs to cars that are small, efficient and climate-friendly, and that all the efforts related to promotion must be to push these models.
but this can only be done with a coordinated approach to energy policy.
so think beyond the day-to-day and design and promote sustainable transport systems now!
we will only be able to tackle climate change and the reordering of the world economy if we tackle them together.
they just ignored climate change.
if we're going to allocate billions of dollars in taxpayer money, then the conditions have to be clear: with that money, the car companies have to shift to a smaller, more fuel-efficient product line, to alternative powertrains -- not just for the environment, not just for the climate, but also for the long-term preservation of hundreds of thousands of jobs.
this is not social or ecological, it's just stupid!
so i think we are in agreement that those measures must be realistically sustainable financially, as well as in other respects.
from an ecological point of view, the model policy was clearly wrong, and the fact that the changeover is now taking place in a crisis does not make it any easier, but it does not change the fact that this changeover must take place and that it must take place quickly.
the commission has long been calling for the conversion of the motor vehicle tax to a carbon-based tax and i am saddened by the slow progress on this issue.
you can't go to countries like india or latin american countries -- there are many other countries where you have to be present in a critical environment like mumbai -- and then have small staffs on the ground without adequate security structures.
that means we need to increase the control density so that the criminal energy is not focused on these feedstocks, that they think they can save costs here.
the open declaration we are adopting here tomorrow is therefore another way, not of fighting criminal energy, but of increasing the degree of control.
we are talking tonight about the use of waste oil containing pcbs in a food waste recycling plant in ireland.
i think it is ridiculous to think that by burning waste oil and the smoke that then passes through a few bread crumbs, one can cause such a dioxin contamination that two hundred times the dioxin levels in pigmeat have appeared not in the feed but in the pigmeat!
finally, the commission understands that any urgencies relating to human and animal health and the environment may include urgencies generated, among other things, by negligence, international fraud or criminal acts.
the new law will not prevent this either, because no european regulation is suitable to prevent criminal energy.
the greater controls that this report provides, however, may deter criminal energy.
criminal energy always goes where it sees promise, where it sees gaps, and we have now been able to close them in some areas.
then i'm pretty sure we'll be able to push back the criminal energy as well.
what about animal welfare, what about the environment, what about the ingredients, what about the structure of agriculture, what about fair trade?
we hope their efforts will soon lead to a durable and sustainable ceasefire, to the opening of the crossings for all goods and persons, and some sort of intra-palestinian agreement.
on the other hand, we can try to work with energy, with determination, to adjust our policies, to adjust the way we set about achieving results.
examples include: security research eur 1.3 billion over 7 years; galileo, which we say also has security aspects eur 3.4 billion; the european commission has already announced that it will be launching a pilot project to study the effects of the greenhouse gas emissions from the use of fossil fuels.
the protection of citizens at home and abroad, peace in our neighbourhood, the protection of external borders, the protection of critical infrastructure, the security of energy supplies, the security of our trade routes, the security of our assets in space and many other things which are in fact the european union's own security interests and common security interests.
it also means that we must clearly focus on the geographical environment of the european union.
if we succeed now, in a time when we are returning to more multilateralism, in strengthening the european union in foreign, security and defence policy - as high commissioner javier solana has just said - that is, if in such an environment of multilateralism we can bring our ideas of preventive measures and soft power more strongly into a common transatlantic strategy, then we have a good future ahead of us.
it was that mr sammy wilson, the environment minister in the regional government, banned a uk information campaign organised by the uk government on energy efficiency.
i cannot believe that the good reasons behind our common climate and energy targets – 20% less co2, 20% renewables and 20% more energy efficiency – are not accepted in the regional government of a member state.
i think even a climate sceptic like mr wilson should take care of citizens and support energy efficiency and efforts to decrease the energy bill.
the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument can only be an effective instrument if it provides incentives for democratic reforms and promotes sustainable development, i.e.
ecological and equitable development.
the georgian war in the summer of 2008 demonstrated that the european union had not developed and implemented a sustainable conflict management policy in the caucasus region.
the european union has the opportunity to play an active role in its neighbourhood through this instrument, in order to promote democratic reforms and sustainable development.
what if, for example, it makes sense to work with other countries on climate policy in the near future?
it concerns energy supply and energy security.
in this report on oil supplies i have called for - and the committee has decided to do so - the importance of oil for europe's future energy supply to be emphasised.
it is clear that oil will remain a very important source of primary energy in the eu in the medium and long term.
how can we ensure that we use less or that we use what we consume in other forms of energy?
when you look at how climate-friendly measures can be taken for cars, it sometimes surprises you that so much attention is paid to other measures.
this regulation which we are adopting today is environmentally friendly because it is an important contribution to european policy to reduce co2 emissions from motor vehicles as part of the co2 package.
but it also - and i call this a wise environmental policy - helps consumers and motorists to pay less and at the same time to protect the environment, because it leads to considerable savings, not only in co2, but also in the consumption of petrol and diesel.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
it is therefore clear that the current environmental debate and the falling cost of petrol mean that a reduction is to be achieved.
of course, energy efficiency and co2 emissions play a very important role.
because one thing is clear: the crisis in demand is not only related to general economic conditions and economic uncertainty, but also to the fact that the cars offered by european manufacturers may not have met the requirements of the european market in recent years in terms of fuel consumption, environmental friendliness and safety.
the aim was to reduce co2 emissions from motor vehicle engines to 130 grams, of which 10 grams were to be used for additional measures.
written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr holger krahmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on industrial emissions (integrated pollution prevention and control) (recast) [com (2007) 0844 - c6-0002/2008 - 2007/0286 (cod) ] (a6-0046/2009).
we are about to vote on the directive on the prevention of industrial emissions.
the environment committee has adopted a number of compromises by a large majority.
i hope that this good trend will continue, because with these regulations we are harmonizing the environmental requirements for industrial plants in the eu.
this improves environmental protection and at the same time ensures fair competition.
this concept introduces community-wide limits for emissions of pollutants by industry.
nitrogen and sulphur oxides are among the main problems of industrial pollution.
that's what the european environment agency says.
this distorts competition, it is bad for the environment, and that is why i am advocating a new approach to better enforcement of the best available techniques.
the compromise packages also reduce red tape, which only costs money but does not help the environment.
the same applies to the generation of electricity from waste gases in steel production.
this process is very efficient, and it still produces energy from an otherwise useless by-product.
however, the required marginal reduction in emissions would have been achieved only with a large financial effort.
today we have the opportunity to send a signal for better environmental protection and fair competition at the same time.
i hope we will take the opportunity to develop a concept that is supported by important economic and environmental associations alike.
the stated aim of this directive is to simplify the existing legislation on industrial emissions and to consolidate it into a single directive, thus cutting red tape.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
a law in which all the major measures to reduce pollution are based on the best available technology should be adapted at least every five years and not after thirteen years.
that is why i am very much in favour of the compromise reached in the environment committee.
the social democrats want to achieve ecological objectives without thwarting economic activities.
i can understand that for a certain period of time a country's energy security is put before its compliance with an air pollution limit.
i would ask you - and this is the outlook for the second reading - to be open-minded at this point and to say: 'let us now talk about a compromise' and in return give up the resistance, which in my view is totally irrational, unjustifiable from the point of view of competition policy and environmental policy, to the fundamental opposition to minimum standards.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
they are capable of giving a signal to ensure safety; are capable of giving a signal to protect the environment; are capable of giving a signal to defend the rights of passengers; they can send a signal to protect businesses and enforce rules.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the challenge we faced was to consolidate the european legislative instruments to combat illegal shipping and prevent marine accidents and pollution of our seas.
the reinforced provisions for the reception of ships in distress in a place of refuge will help to prevent a shipping accident from turning into an environmental catastrophe.
the monitoring of vessels in territorial waters is particularly important in ecologically sensitive areas, because pollution of the seas and oceans knows no bounds.
the negative impact of transport on people and nature means that transport must be designed to be more environmentally friendly if it is to contribute to combating climate change.
because we all have one clear objective in this house: the noise pollution caused by the railways must be eliminated.
for us transport policy makers, it is a quantum leap that air pollution, noise and congestion can now be included in the tolls.
transport, especially road transport, is responsible for 30% of co2 emissions, and even with this directive we are miles away from fair competition between modes of transport.
and if the conservatives say that the costs of dams cannot be counted, then at least they should vote for the costs of climate change, the costs of accidents, all the costs of noise.
those who say no here have given up on climate change and are ruining our children and grandchildren because they have no future on this planet.
firstly, to my colleague robert evans: my group is in favour of internalising the external costs of emissions and noise.
i fully agree with you that if the price of the euro-vignette is increased because of the emissions and noise, the money must also be used to reduce the environmental impact of transport and not to plug the holes of the finance ministers.
in fact, qimonda is months ahead of the competition in research into energy-saving chips.
only a targeted investment, ecological restructuring of the economy and then a corresponding qualification of the personnel will give people hope and real chances for the future.
the major challenges of globalisation, the economic and financial crisis and global warming must make europeans work ever closer together to defend our common values and interests in the world effectively.
the debate on the link between climate policy, sustainability strategies and crisis management is equally inconsistent.
looking at the current economic programmes at european and national level, one can only say: many big words, but the goal of sustainability, climate protection, resource efficiency is still not taken seriously.
these programmes are not designed to make the european economy more sustainable, but are simply more of the past.
instead of buying up bad paper from the banks, taxpayers' money should be used to repair schools, hospitals and to rebuild the european economy in an ecological way.
we must seize the opportunities of the financial crisis and radically green the european economy and thus stop the climate crisis.
the facilitation of the use of the structural funds must be directed solely at sustainable, ecological investments.
without such a climate check, there must be no increase in co-financing, in funds.
member states are now encouraged to make full use of the possibilities for supporting investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing, for example, and to exploit these new investment opportunities in housing in general.
and, ladies and gentlemen, it must be stressed that they are in no way contrary to free competition, social standards and the implementation of community environmental and climate protection requirements.
i am very grateful to you, commissioner, but what is happening here is an intolerable mess, waste and incompetence on an intolerable scale.
work on ensuring the sustainability of refugee return must continue.
the presidency shares the opinion of parliament that turkey needs to be commended for the progress achieved in the field of energy.
moreover, the presidency puts emphasis on reaching progress in chapter 15 on energy, in compliance with energy issues, because it is one of our priorities.
i hope these developments will result in a strong political and societal consensus to pursue eu reforms with renewed vigour and energy.
here, i think that it is absolutely essential that we support the talks of the two leaders and of the two communities that are going on at the moment, so that we can seize the opportunity in 2009 to achieve a comprehensive settlement and, of course, we expect turkey will contribute to a favourable political climate to achieve such a settlement.
we also call on turkey to respect eu environmental and natural standards and the rights of the people affected by the dams of the 'south anatolia project'.
in 2000, it was agreed to develop new partnership agreements by the end of 2007. and it should replace unilateral trade preferences with wto-compatible agreements, with the objectives of reducing and ultimately eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable development, promoting regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance, helping the acp states to develop their economic capabilities and gradually integrate them into the world economy.
in these circumstances, we must seize every opportunity to make trade a driver of sustainable development as part of our response to the global economic crisis.
particular attention will be paid to strengthening regional integration programmes and ensuring their sustainable future.
they must be safe for man and the environment, and for this reason a review of all biocidal active substances has now been initiated.
key areas include research and innovation, quality job creation, support for smes, climate change projects, integrated urban development and the development of public-private partnership projects, to name a few.
the criteria for selecting best practice projects could be the quality and sustainability of the projects, the impetus for the regions and for the european union, the efficiency of the use of funds and, of course, the transferability to other regions.
i would like to mention a few: a centre of excellence for environmental technology in slovenia, the burgenland mobility centre in austria, the brain hunt competition in estonia, the new building of the fraunhofer institute for cell therapy and immunology in germany, the science park in granada in spain and the development of a problematic district in leipzig east in germany.
commissioner, in your speech today you mentioned the contribution of cohesion policy to climate protection.
why not, given the climate crisis?
the contribution of the european structural funds to the ecological transformation is a future issue for territorial cohesion.
the commission document 'regions 2020' demonstrates that climate change is having a massive impact on many regions in europe.
as a consequence, we would now have to reverse course: structural funds can only support sustainable projects, projects and programmes that damage the climate - many of which have been approved - are unlikely to be approved as such, and eu funds can no longer support programmes and projects that damage the climate.
it is clear from this that we need a new dimension in the way the structural funds are to be structured: they must be ecological and democratic, using local knowledge and respecting the partnership principle.
we need more than ever a unified community policy capable of meeting the current challenges of globalisation, climate change and demographic change.
we are at a crossroads where it is up to us to decide whether or not territorial cohesion and truly sustainable development will be the hallmark of european policy.
in addition to the importance of the urban dimension, this includes the need for an integrated approach and the implementation of climate objectives.
if the comprehensive analysis of best practice projects is indeed incorporated into the policy debate, then nothing should stand in the way of a european pioneering role in a truly sustainable policy.
in the areas of demography, energy and telecommunications, both in structural and rural development, we find project grants which really go in the same direction but are the responsibility of different ministries.
if we were to pool projects across departments, we could do bigger things for rural areas, like decentralised energy infrastructure, broadband cabling across the board, cross-border water infrastructure.
we agree with the basic concept of the green paper, which is that territorial cohesion is about ensuring the polycentric development of the eu as a whole and the sustainable development of territories with different characteristics and peculiarities, while preserving their diversity.
we need this policy urgently, especially in the face of the challenges of climate change, the economic crisis, globalisation, but also demographic developments, developments in the labour market.
the london summit needs to agree on the macroeconomic policies and regulatory structures that can get us through the current crisis and put in place a better, more sustainable framework for the future.
you should be proud, too, of the comprehensive framework of environmental protection that we are building – a defining achievement of european coordination, with this continent the first in the world to set itself unequivocally on the path to becoming a low-carbon economy.
now, in the midst of a global crisis of a speed, scope and scale quite unprecedented in history, i want to discuss with you how, by applying these values that are now part of our dna – these lessons we have learned over time in europe – europe and the world can rise to the four great challenges of globalisation: financial instability in a world of instant global capital flows; environmental degradation in a world of energy shortages; extremism and the threat it brings to security in a world of unprecedented mobility; and growing poverty in a world of worsening inequality.
i want to discuss how we can build, from a world which today looks unsustainable, unsafe and unequal, a truly global society which is sustainable for all, secure for all and fair to all.
i want to see a globalisation that is open, free-trading and flexible, but which is also reforming, inclusive and sustainable.
i believe also that in this crisis we must take urgent, serious and large-scale action to build a low-carbon recovery and make our economies sustainable.
europe led the industrial revolution and now it can lead a low-carbon revolution – through investment in energy efficiency, the expansion of renewables and nuclear power, the demonstration of carbon capture and storage, the development of the smart grid, and the commercialisation of electric and ultra-low-carbon vehicles.
that is why i am proud to be part of the european 2020 package on energy and climate change that we agreed in december 2008 – a decision of this parliament also which has set the highest standards for global leadership on the road to a climate change agreement we all want to see at copenhagen later this year.
never in recent years have we had an american leadership so keen to cooperate at all levels with europe on financial stability, climate change, security and development.
let us work together for a new worldwide climate change agreement – a climate change agreement initiated at the g8 in 2005 by chancellor merkel – for the biggest cuts in carbon emissions the world has ever seen.
i say, in this world of amazing change – climate change, environmental demands, energy needs, the risk of terror, poverty and inequality that has to be tackled, a financial crisis that has to be dealt with – let us not retreat into the protectionism that is the road to ruin.
there is trade round the world at a speed that we have never seen before until this crisis, and we have to deal with that by creating a global trading environment which is free, but also fair.
this is a test of how we, having over the last 60 years created a europe which has social protection as well as economic progress, can help shape a world where we have economic progress, environmental care and social justice at the same time.
and he also says, let's focus the work of both institutions on the challenges that we have to face in the future, which are climate change, the concern that there will be mass layoffs and economic collapse if we don't do something about it, and the demand, especially from small and medium-sized businesses, for public infrastructure to move forward, which gives us breath and which also gives us perspective.
the important thing - and i can only support you in this - is that the banks really continue to focus on smes as the backbone of our european economy, and that they focus on projects that actually clearly meet the criterion of sustainability.
that is exactly due to the capability of the institutions to use this rigid environment in which we operate in financial frameworks today to the best of our capabilities, to deliver where it was needed.
we need a fair, simple, transparent, reliable and sustainable system of revenue and expenditure for the eu.
and president obama today announced that he's going to invest 129 billion dollars in renewable energy.
we must link agricultural policy, for example, to the production of ecological energy, and no longer make direct payments dependent on the size of farms.
we must adapt our entire economic and growth policy to the paradigm of climate protection and sustainability if we are to take seriously the debates we are having here and our lisbon strategy and adapt to the new challenges.
to put it very clearly, the european automobile industry must now move forward on a broad front to bring to market the cars that are required today at the beginning of the 21st century: energy-efficient, low-fuel and resource-saving.
we will provide one billion euros for research partnerships with industry to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy.
we therefore welcome the fact that all the measures are being taken together and are intended to contribute to making the automotive industry more sustainable, to help it to boost demand out of this crisis and to facilitate the provision of investment and finance for buyers and for the industry.
the commissioner made it very clear in his speech that the figures show a shocking overproduction and a glaring lack of innovation in efficiency and climate protection.
so far, i have met some german companies in the automotive industry in particular, which have been on the brakes in terms of climate protection or efficiency.
i also noted with great interest that two weeks ago there was a renewed call for a waiver of environmental requirements.
but without these strict conditions, we are not contributing to sustainable employment.
the second package of legislation will enable us to make airspace control more effective in the coming years, save up to three billion in costs for airlines and thus ultimately for consumers, and reduce the environmental burden by up to 12% of co2 emissions.
these are important objectives in terms of cost, consumer and environmental aspects, which we can now achieve.
this is not sustainable, even with air traffic doubling every 10 to 15 years.
now parliament, with a good rapporteur, has produced a regulation which sets clear objectives and rules of the game for the necessary integration by 2012. this is a contribution to safety, climate protection and cost reduction in air transport.
fifty kilometers shorter flights, 12% less carbon emissions, 3 billion in savings for the airlines, fewer delays for the passengers.
i should also like to say, madam president, that there is a lot of work being done on the question of energy consumption and the environmental impact of such chargers.
we shall deal with this question at the latest when we are working on the implementation of the directive on products which consume energy, for which we have submitted a new proposal to you.
the second major theme of the european council was energy and climate.
we've made significant progress in both energy security and climate protection.
energy security, in addition to being one of the main priorities of our presidency, and its need, became clear in january.
climate debate: the negotiations and preparations for the copenhagen conference are already under way.
the biggest debate, and i would like to dwell on this a little bit, was whether we should now set not only the mechanisms, but also the share of each european union country in the package of money that we will provide to help developing countries, third countries, to meet their commitments in the fight against climate change.
in the polish approach, of course, the interests of countries that are a little concerned about this mechanism and those of countries that are leaders in climate protection are respected.
the summit will be thematically framed in three main blocks: discussions on the g20 summit, cooperation on energy and climate, where the eu wants to remain a key player, as well as the americans, and the third point will be external relations, the geostrategic area from the mediterranean to the caspian, that is afghanistan, pakistan, the situation in iran, apparently the middle east.
however, it was also very clearly stated in the accompanying documents that there must of course be a link with the orientation towards sustainable public finances and, in this context, with the continuation of the pension reform.
the first thing we need to do is to overcome the financial crisis, to change the imbalances in the world, to tackle together the challenges of climate change, of combating poverty and to establish a new morality in the world based on the social market economy.
i want to see more courageous leadership on climate and inclusion in what is needed now.
but we are also living on a budget, in terms of the environment and the climate.
we are not sustainable.
the un, ban ki-moon, the world bank, they all tell us that what's happening in china now, what's happening in south korea -- that more than half of the national economic programs are devoted to climate action and sustainable development -- is the right thing to do, and that's where the future lies.
there is also a need for confidence in our shared commitment to preserve our particular brand of social market economy, and in our long-term agenda for a low-carbon economy.
americans are coming closer to our position regarding the fight against climate change, and we welcome that.
firstly, energy security and climate change.
energy security is a key priority which needs to be pursued via a comprehensive strategy covering energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energy resources as well as the diversification of energy supplies, sources and routes.
on climate, this year will be critical.
the united nations climate change conference in copenhagen in late december presents a historic opportunity to revise and widen the application of binding international targets to address climate change.
the eu has established ambitious energy and climate change commitments in advance of the conference.
president obama’s statements and appointments in relation to climate change appear to signal an important policy shift, but much hard work lies ahead here.
we must also ensure that the conditions are in place for the presidential elections in afghanistan to be a success and we must keep the regional aspect in mind, in particular by giving further assistance to the development of sustainable civil government in pakistan.
on climate change: for the first time in a decade, eu and us policies are starting to converge.
we need to lead jointly by example, to get china and india on board in a multilateral agreement and to launch an integrated carbon market as part of the future global market.
this also means bringing our energy research programmes into closer cooperation and reinforcing our dialogue on energy security – as our president has also said.
june will also be the occasion to elaborate a renewed transatlantic agenda and a sustainable programme of practical eu-us cooperation.
in the european union we have particularly high standards, for example in consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection.
my last point is: make sure that, on energy-intensive industries, you will bring to the attention of the tec the idea of identifying a benchmark together.
that is the only way the problems in the energy-intensive industries will be solved.
as i said before, especially regarding waste or hazardous waste, here we need to ensure that implementation of the convention will be fully in line with regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 on shipments of waste, which was adopted relatively recently.
we know that at some point similar considerations will be made in the area of capital market law, environmental law and social law.
on the contrary, the amendments tabled by my colleague, mr niels busk, on behalf of the alde group, which were unfortunately not accepted, were intended to put the existing system on a sustainable footing.
i can equally assure you that i remain personally committed to this issue and will continue to work on it until the end of my mandate with the same energy and vigour that i have devoted to it thus far, and of course with the kind help and support of parliament.
it is not possible that we end up with sectoral instruments: one for consumer protection, one for antitrust, one for the capital market, perhaps another for the environment, perhaps another for social matters, all of which contradict each other, all of which interfere with the legal systems of the member states and end up in a legal-political mess that no practitioner can handle.
it is clear that appropriate measures to stabilise food prices must be found to ensure sustainable agricultural production.
total transparency of all entrepreneurial cost factors such as wages, energy costs, purchase and selling prices and profit margins leads to surveillance and management.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
we greens see the financial crisis and the climate crisis as linked, because the negative impacts of climate change on the regions are long-term and cause enormous costs.
building insulation and the use of renewable energy for residential buildings in the erdf are a first step.
but what good is this progress if at the same time member states are allowed to invest in road planning and oversized waste incineration plants, the use of which is fuelling climate change and damaging the environment.
the commission has also been very clear in its vigorous speech on why the commission refuses to accept our proposal to make regional policy more closely linked to climate and environmental protection.
does the commission lack the courage to press the member states to revise the erdf regulation in the light of climate objectives?
the reservations in dg regio about climate change have prevented our amendments from gaining a majority in the committee.
then we'll see if the voters can trust you to take a stand on climate change.
it is also welcome - and i would like to stress this - that an amendment to article 7 - eligibility of expenditure - should enable eu member states and regions to invest structural funding in energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing, and that this measure should not be limited to low-income households.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i remember the starting point as one in which neelie kroes and others came up with the analysis that despite several liberalization packages at european level, the market power of fewer and fewer players - large energy groups - in more and more countries of the european union, i.e.
concentration in the energy sector, in the electricity sector as well as in the gas sector, is increasing.
i would like to make a bet with you today that without this separation - as you have advocated in the first place - we will not have any real protection for consumers against arbitrary prices in the energy market.
because what we decide now will not be enough to break this power, this dominance of some energy companies.
it will not be enough to prevent electricity and gas prices from rising further despite ever-increasing profits in the energy sector.
we agreed that we want to make sure that people have a higher level of security of energy supply, that they have enough energy, that they can buy energy at a reasonable price.
the solution is: we have to make sure that more investment is made in the energy sector, in grids, in interconnectors, in new power plants.
on the contrary, we must ensure that those who supply energy are controlled and that there is real competition.
if it is used properly, it is also one that can be sustainable and that can bring us a significant step forward.
i have already said in a small circle that this debate on the energy package was not necessarily a matter of black or red, left or right.
as the use of nuclear energy in the european union is a reality and will be a reality, and nuclear safety is not constrained by national borders, we need a community-wide framework aiming at achieving, maintaining and continuously improving nuclear safety in the european union.
these international atomic energy agency (iaea) safety fundamentals and the obligations of the convention of nuclear safety constitute the core of the directive.
moreover, close cooperation with the international atomic energy agency has ensured consistency with international practices.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
we are concerned about this, we are trying to contribute to the minimum safety of nuclear technology throughout europe and, of course, to contribute to the stabilization and support of nuclear technology as one of several options in the energy mix, as we have also agreed in other decisions adopted by a large majority.
i expect that progress in a number of different areas, connected to the recommendations of the de larosière report, will have created a more favourable environment for reforms related to cross-border cooperation between home and host supervisors.
just as public security, justice or environmental protection, the stability of financial markets is a public good and should be publicly controlled.
i call for us to do what we did with the climate package: let us take the lead as europeans and give the world a workable model!
the number of empty vehicle journeys on community roads will be reduced, thus contributing to the reduction of co2 emissions.
i am convinced that the new legal framework for freight and passenger transport in the european union will make a significant contribution to the rapid and sustainable recovery of our economies.
the council representative has indicated - and you have also indicated, mr vice-president - that it is better for environmental reasons and for economic reasons in themselves to avoid empty cars in europe.
because it is a minimal area for transport, but it is a waste of money and it is bad for the environment.
it also serves to improve the safety of our roads, to increase the efficiency of transport and to protect the environment in a sustainable way.
cabotage bans lead to empty journeys which we cannot afford and do not want to do, either financially or from an energy or environmental point of view.
empty cars are already being reduced, the environment is being protected.
in the context of climate change, urban transport plays a central role, as it is responsible for 70% of all climate-damaging emissions.
only a different transport policy in the eu will be able to achieve its own climate protection objectives.
we are pleased that there is a majority in favour of granting eu funds only if cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants can also submit a sustainable mobility plan.
not only would that be good for the climate, it would also reduce the number of accidents.
the jurisdiction was originally designed because about 80% of the population lives in urban areas and because of the climate debate, they wanted to take care of it now.
they are designed to promote environmental friendliness, efficiency, safety and non-discriminatory competitiveness in road haulage and passenger transport.
intelligent transport systems, based on eu-wide mandatory basic standards and minimum quality requirements, improve the environment for innovation and provide planning certainty, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
now, of course, in the context of the climate change debate, this discussion has taken on new weight.
the second 'marco polo' programme to improve the environmental performance of freight transport will be voted on tomorrow.
it will also strengthen co-modality, thus contributing to an efficient and sustainable transport system.
i would like to inform you that already next year my services - which i thank again for the work done - will start to reflect on the marco polo programme beyond 2013 and this reflection will focus, among other things, on the points provided for in the compromise agreement and in particular i would like to stress the need to distinguish between financing conditions in the different modes of transport, on the basis of safety as well as environmental and energy efficiency, on the need to establish demand-oriented assistance at the stage of submission of applications, taking into account the needs of small and micro transport enterprises, the recognition of the economic recession as an exceptional reason for extending the duration of projects, the reduction of the thresholds for product-specific eligibility.
let's go back to the thinking for the marco polo program beyond 2013: i said, the topics will also include the possibility of indicating the reference values of the minimum funding thresholds for the proposed projects in terms of energy efficiency and environmental benefits, as well as tonne-kilometres transferred.
we see that with many amendments by the committee on the environment, with compromises that we have reached together, the commission's proposal has been improved.
today we have the pleasure of signing together two important legislative packages, the climate and energy package and the package for an integrated maritime policy for the european union.
the adoption of these two legislative proposals demonstrates the european union's ability to act decisively to tackle together the challenges in the key areas of sustainable development, environmental protection and maritime safety.
the climate and energy package has laid the foundations for the european union to achieve its climate goals by 2020 and to continue to play a leading role in the fight against climate change.
the climate package includes important legislative frameworks that contribute, for example, to improving the emissions trading system or to member states' efforts to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
in conclusion, may i express my sincere thanks to the czech presidency of the council, to the commission and to the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism, and in particular to their chairmen and rapporteurs, who have all worked intensively on these important legislative acts.
− mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you for inviting me to meet you on the european parliament's premises to celebrate the signing of the climate, energy and maritime package, two key measures agreed by the member states of the european union, this parliament and other partners with the help of the european commission.
let me begin by saying a few words on behalf of the european council on the climate and energy package.
the package confirms the european union's global leadership in the fight against climate change, while respecting the real capabilities and economic conditions of each member state.
the climate and energy package has considerable symbolic value, as it demonstrates that representatives of half a billion citizens, 500 million citizens, can agree on very precise procedures, strategies and targets for such an important and sensitive agenda in today's economically unfavourable times.
the package paves the way for us europeans to negotiate a global agreement on a strategy to combat climate change, which should be concluded this december at the conference of the parties in copenhagen.
the european union is a leader in climate protection and this long-standing priority should not be wasted but transformed into an additional quality.
when the tanker erika, with 20,000 tonnes of oil on board, broke in half off the coast of brittany, france, in 1999, causing untold environmental damage, and when some 120 tonnes of oil were spilled from the tanker prestige off the coast of galicia, spain, three years later, the european public was deeply concerned.
the results of this european legislation, apart from the incalculable impact on the environment, which is the capital of us all, will be appreciated not only by citizens and businesses in the maritime states, as it might seem, but also by export-oriented landlocked states such as my country, where a large part of production is shipped out of europe by sea.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by taking this opportunity to thank the rapporteurs of the european parliament, the french presidency and the commission for the hard work they have put into the maritime package, without whose efforts and commitment this success with its clear benefits for the european public, business and the environment would not have been possible.
i think it is, as my colleague mrs lucas has said, despairing that the london summit has simply postponed the climate crisis and the energy security crisis.
this is not only causing great damage to the climate and the security of energy supplies, but also the loss of thousands of new jobs.
i know that the npt also includes civilian elements, but we are not talking about the renaissance of civilian nuclear energy today, but about nuclear disarmament.
and i also say, as the president of the iranian delegation and as a spokeswoman for foreign policy, that whoever has not learned from the iranian crisis of recent years, which has brought us into the danger of military escalation often enough, that the civil use of nuclear energy is never separated from a military abuse and proliferation, has not understood the whole foreign policy of recent years, the dangers and our challenge to disarm nuclear.
i would therefore like to make a very serious appeal - that was my mandate from the committee on foreign affairs - not to confuse the question of the civilian use of nuclear energy with a revival of the possibilities of nuclear disarmament.
the majority of the european parliament, which has so far been the committee on foreign affairs, should not waste time voting on waxy reports, but leave the concrete disarmament demands originally contained in the report.
it is not acceptable and does not make sense to subject all products produced in the eu to an environmental accuracy check, and it is regrettable - at least from my point of view - that this option is now being included in the text for 2012. i would remind you that we must be careful not to turn the european commission into a product planning authority.
i therefore welcome the commission's statement that it would like to present its proposals to the environment committee before adoption.
this clarifies the relationship between health and environmental standards and thus contributes to the objectives of better regulation.
the new rules will also be fully consistent with the objective of protecting biodiversity and - most important of all - will maintain a high level of protection within the european union against risks to public and animal health.
category ii or iii materials, regardless of their risk, can be disposed of easily under official supervision at a low weekly waste rate.
however, in the recent past it has been emphasised that the commission must step up its efforts to preserve biodiversity.
we have even made it quite clear that the final destination of the by-products of slaughter is a completely different matter, and that the transition to the waste framework directive is clearly marked.
− the regulation on statistics on plant protection products is part of the reorientation of european plant protection product policy, which also includes the authorisation regulation and the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides, which were successfully adopted earlier this year.
our strict european approval process guarantees full protection of people and the environment.
here, companies are called upon to help create a family-friendly working environment.
the epp-ed group supports the text of the amending directive on the introduction of penalties for marine pollution negotiated by the rapporteur with the council and congratulates him on this.
it is clear that serious pollution of the sea must be classified as a criminal offence and punished, while minor pollution can be classified as an offence, so that we can differentiate according to its severity.
but - and this is very important - repeated, even minor pollution of the sea must be considered a crime, because it just adds up to pollute the sea, and this is not a crime of chivalry.
written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs anni podimata, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the indication by means of uniform labels and information on the consumption of energy and other resources by energy-related products (recast) (com (2008) 778 final - c6-0412/2008 - 2008/0222 (cod)) (a6-0146/2009).
first, it's a real and important project to realize energy efficiency, to save more energy.
it is right that we are using methods which we regrettably do not use in other areas, namely labelling to help consumers choose more energy-efficient products, while at the same time stimulating competition for more efficient appliances.
if we do what the majority in the committee has suggested, which is to stick to a-g, i fear that old appliances will still be classified as a, while new, more energy-efficient appliances will be classified as b. so either we're going to have a transition period for relabelling - that's going to lead to confusion - or we're going to have a constant change, a constant relabelling.
a good example of this is the introduction of emissions trading for aviation from 2012 which has just been decided by the european institutions.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the european transport policy, the environment and the environment.
this is the only way to achieve a global environmental improvement.
that is why my group is calling on the european council - and i hope the council representative will take up this matter - to discuss and prepare, at the next council, balanced approaches to global, environmentally friendly transport policies in preparation for the copenhagen climate conference.
we need to examine issues such as maintaining employment levels through flexicurity and mobility, creating a favourable environment for investments and job creation by businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, upgrading skills and anticipating labour market needs.
at the last workshop, which took place in prague last week, the need to maintain employment and to improve an environment friendly to entrepreneurship and job creation was emphasised.
the temporary short-term working arrangements can be beneficial, but their financial sustainability needs to be ensured.
apart from the efforts to maintain current jobs, we must also create a favourable environment for investors and businesses to invest and create new jobs.
our objective – even more so in the current difficult climate – is to adopt an inclusive approach to employment policy.
i believe that every crisis also offers opportunities to be seized, the opportunity to renew our european model of a social market economy, also of an ecological economy, the opportunity to show europe's firm will to contribute to the well-being of its citizens.
this makes it easier to apply and ensures sustainability in supporting our employees until they have found a new job.
the project will thus contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market and environmental objectives as well as to the economic recovery.
on 17 april 2009, following the conclusion of the environmental impact assessment, they issued the building permit for the project.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the lack of a single market.
if a delegation has a subject such as climate change or social protection, it is usually the experts from the expert committee.
(applause from the centre)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by petya stavreva, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (com ((2009) 0038 c6-0051/2009 2009/0011 ((cns)) (a6-0259/2009), the report by eugenijus maldeikis, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a programme to stimulate economic growth by providing financial support to the community for projects in the energy sector (com ((2009) 3500 c6-0049/2009 2009/0010 ((cod)) (a26-01/2009)) and the report by the committee on budgets, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending the multiannual financial framework for the financial year 2006/07 (com (2009) 0271-080)) and amending the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (com (2008-0271-06-060) c7-006-06-09).
immediately after the agreement on the 2009 budget, the commission presented a proposal to amend the multiannual financial framework for the financing of trans-european energy networks and broadband infrastructure projects under the european economic recovery programme.
the package directs that stimulus to key objectives, such as broadband development, energy security and low-carbon technologies.
i will now turn to my subject: energy.
the regulation on energy projects constitutes a significant tool to achieve two goals: responding to the key security issues and environmental challenges in the energy sector whilst at the same time contributing to the recovery of our economy.
never before has the european union agreed to dedicate such a significant amount to key energy projects.
i know that some of you would have preferred to see more measures on renewables and energy efficiency projects in the package, but i believe that the compromise finally found on this subject is a good one.
the commission provides reassurance in a comprehensive declaration that it will reconsider the situation in 2010, referring expressly to the option of suggesting using uncommitted funds for measures in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
in addition, i can assure you that we will swiftly go ahead with the many other initiatives in the area of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, as they are referred to in our declaration.
i can tell you that, with respect to the energy projects, we intend to launch the call for proposals by the end of may, and i expect first decisions on support by the end of this year.
it is good that the colleagues from the committee on industry had these doubts and negotiated the commission's declaration to put unspent funds into energy efficiency projects.
we have also put the fight against climate change at the top of the political agenda.
we have taken the lead in the fight against climate change, and we can be proud of that, ladies and gentlemen!
the newly elected parliament will have a lot of work to do: to help overcome the economic and financial crisis, to implement a european energy policy, to transition to a low-carbon economy, to increase security for european citizens, and to promote peace and stability worldwide.
as regards the telecommunications package, the previous presidency and our presidency have invested a great deal of energy in this issue.
− last march the council and the spring european council further refined a new position for the international climate change negotiations, in particular in view of the copenhagen conference.
at this meeting of 19-20 march 2009, the council stressed its conviction that the economic crisis and the policy measures in response to it provide an opportunity to achieve the necessary economic reforms and at the same time speed up reforms towards a safe and sustainable low-carbon resource-efficient economy.
the presidency conclusions of the european council of march this year stated that the european union remained committed to playing a leading role and bringing about the global and comprehensive climate agreement in copenhagen in december this year, designed to limit global warming to below 2° celsius.
- mr president, in answer to the question put, i would first like to say that we have never been sceptical about climate change, as far as the czech government and the czech republic are concerned.
and if you've noticed anything that would disrupt the united european union on climate, please let me know, but nothing like that has happened.
this is because regional cooperation contributes to a shared understanding in the region and to finding solutions for issues of common interest, such as in the fields of energy, transport, trade, the fight against organised crime and corruption, refugee return and border control.
such action is neither credible nor sustainable.
sylvia kaufmann has been mentioned several times, and her opinion has really won over many oppositions in her political environment.
perhaps it is a proposal to deal with an emergency, but it needs a thorough review to redesign the whole system, so much so that on 15 april, in response to the concerns and comments of president costa, i announced to him, as chairman of the committee, that the services of the european commission's directorate-general for transport and energy are already working to submit a proposal for a rapid revision of the regulation.
it will also avoid paradoxical situations such as the present one, where companies are forced to fly empty in order not to lose slots, which i also find absolutely unacceptable from an environmental point of view, as well as being harmful to the economies of companies.
this suspension is also to protect the environment, as airlines might otherwise feel compelled to operate low-load flights just to keep the slots.
the focus was right on energy, economics and foreign relations, but as so often in life, planning and reality are sometimes two different pairs of shoes.
a programme for which we have worked very hard, namely a coherent programme for energy efficiency in europe which would have saved us millions of jobs, this programme has not really been taken into account.
on the climate crisis, i don't have to go to the trouble of green politicians to evaluate the politics of this area.
ivo de boer, the chief negotiator of the united nations, and ban ki-moon wrote to us after the last bonn conference that all the countries in the world that have claimed to take the lead in this global policy to combat the climate crisis are far from doing what is really necessary.
if we take european energy policy as a yardstick of our willingness to do what we really want to do as europeans, i do not think we can really see the eternal competing strategy so clearly demonstrated by the northstream or nabucco projects as a start towards a common european energy policy with a future.
in fact, we expect that in the biggest economic crisis in decades with environmental challenges, a presidency that designs visionary will be at the forefront!
and this is - as we all know - a time of uncertainty, but one in which we still need clarity on the economic, fiscal, labour market and climate policy directions in the european union and its member states.
of course, climate change is the number one issue, and you put it in the right place.
that is why we expect you to put jobs and job security in whatever form, for example through the combination of environmental and industrial policy - that is very, very smart - at the very top.
i had suggested to you, mr prime minister reinfeldt, that you not take the decision to formalise it immediately but first send your candidate to parliament so that he can say what he wants to do to revive the economy, to secure jobs, to combat climate change, to have an employment pact, to have an initiative for a directive on public services, to have an initiative to improve the posting directive, to have a guarantee between the commission and the european parliament on the evaluation of the social impact of the commission's initiatives.
we expect institutional clarity, we expect social commitment, and i think we will follow you on climate policy.
(applause from the centre) climate policy: you know that we greens have been campaigning throughout our european campaign for the green new deal.
we are firmly convinced that it is completely wrong to do what you have done over and over again in the last five years, mr barroso, namely to play economic strategies against environmental and climate strategies.
we must think about economic development in a sustainable way, we must reconcile climate and environmental objectives!
andris piebalgs has backed this up with a study for the energy sector in recent months.
i can only summarise what i have seen in recent months in the international climate change arena: the europeans have been glittering with new hesitancy - how far do we really want to go with the reduction targets?
the international fund for climate change's funding for the poorer countries has really gone very, very badly.
it is still a mystery that the swedes want to reduce the development aid for example in favour of this climate summit, this is a zero-sum game and from the point of view of the poorer countries it is not at all acceptable!
we are also with you if you want to make the european union more like eastern europe, like russia, but the emphasis on a real climate policy must not only be in the headlines, it must also be corrected in the small print of the swedish programme!
i welcome what you have said about cyprus and wish you every success in implementing the ambitious climate targets.
we have a very clear interest in developing the relationship with china in all fields, and that entails, as i said, the possibility for an open and frank dialogue, also on issues where our values might be different, and we know that such issues exist, including human rights, including issues like the use of the death sentence; but also to pursue the common interest that, needless to say, we have these days: issues of global financial stability, issues of how to deal with the climate change challenge are important.
today we are naturally focused on global challenges, including the economic and financial crisis and climate change, as well as regional issues.
a very important last remark to the swedish presidency of the council: yes, it is true, we have an interest in a strategic partnership with china because of climate policy, because of general foreign policy issues.
the overcoming of the financial crisis, the fight against poverty, the halting of climate change, energy security and water supply are not achievable without the efforts of the prc.
we must also act to ensure that our legal commitments to reduce co2 emissions from cars by 2012 are not jeopardised by the crisis.
public funds may only be used exceptionally and only where sustainable economic structures with sustainable jobs are created.
the cleanest, most energy-efficient and safest.
so a failed restructuring would result in great damage for the company and for its workers, in negative spillovers for the whole sector and in a waste of taxpayer’s money.
opel is clearly not a manufacturer of large vehicles, but of energy-saving vehicles.
let us create an industrial policy framework with world-leading environmental standards so that workers and car manufacturers in europe can get on board.
we talk about sustainable cars in many contexts, including government intervention: cars that are supposed to be climate-friendly and efficient, that are supposed to have other sustainable drives.
it is however worth noting that the opel support measure in germany does not really reflect on the sustainability of this sector.
how do we get to a future where we have climate-friendly, better public transport systems?
who is ensuring that this sector is linked in thought to the information technology and renewable energy sectors?
the solidarity fund, in conjunction with existing environmental and agricultural programmes, could really help in a sustainable way.
for example, in areas such as telecoms, transport, construction and environmental services, doing business in korea will be much easier in the future.
there are also provisions by which korea accepts the equivalence between european and korean environmental regulations.
indeed, even before the agreement enters into force, korea has agreed to apply certain transitional derogations from the korean environmental standards important for our exporters and we are monitoring very closely discussions in korea about new regulations to limit co2 emissions in order to make them show that they are not an impediment to trade.
i'm thinking of keywords like the capital region act seoul, standards for on-board diagnostics, environmental standards, the duty drawback protection clause and so on.
i also believe, mr president, that everything you said about the second major challenge that we are now facing in a round of negotiations, also in the international context, namely the challenge of the climate crisis, was correct.
i have the impression that europeans are far from being the appropriate climate leaders.
there is also no consensus on this site that we really need to start transforming the old industrial societies, that we need to think beyond the day to day, and that climate-friendly technologies, efficiency technologies and many other things are the future, not just for europe, but for the world.
if you want to represent modern ideas, ideas that are sustainable, you will have our group's support.
we are in favour of intercultural, multilateral dialogue and the greatest possible support to the poorer countries in dealing with the economic, food, financial and climate crises.
let us all vote together for a commission that is committed to the goal of a social, peaceful, economically sustainable and democratic european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies.
this is an ecological green revolution!
the competitiveness of europe and the security of european jobs must be balanced against environmental and climate protection.
i was wondering if you might want to jeopardise this meeting by having your own climate commissioner.
- the mr president, the environmental damage which may result from the extraction and use of lignite in power stations is one of the issues adequately addressed by community legislation.
the mining waste directive requires that plants treating mining waste have a permit, which includes a waste management plan, as well as a plan for the closure and rehabilitation of the plant.
the directive provides for inspections by the competent authorities and includes obligations to prevent pollution of water, air and soil.
the directive applies to new installations from may 2008. existing installations must obtain a permit in accordance with the directive before may 2012. member states are also required to draw up by mid-2012 a list of abandoned and decommissioned installations which cause or could cause environmental damage.
if an installation ceases to operate, the ippc directive imposes an obligation on the operator to take measures to prevent any pollution risks, as well as landscape restoration measures.
this legal framework ensures a high level of environmental protection in the event of potential environmental damage from lignite firing plants.
we need not argue about this: we must protect resources and we must do our part to protect the climate and nature.
our common objectives are, of course, to improve the competitiveness of our economies in the baltic sea region, with particular emphasis on the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises, but also a common energy policy which also takes account of renewable energies.
so we also have to be clear: where are the energy routes for nord stream, for electricity supply and many other things?
hassi and lövin raised the issue of the marine environment, agriculture and fisheries.
i also believe that the strategy can give us the opportunity to get a better overview of our environmental efforts and our fisheries and agricultural policies and to ensure that they are moving in a common direction.
we have a large and growing energy cooperation, where we aim to link up the energy infrastructure in the region, reduce dependence and increase efficiency.
it is a commercial project that has been tested under the usual international environmental conventions and relevant national legislation.
for montenegro, a sustainable solution for the displaced persons is to be defined.
they themselves have a job, they can travel, they waste their time in useless nationalistic quarrels, instead of working for, for example, a good school system, a good infrastructure, a good health system.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
to put it in concrete terms, if we could enforce low-energy standards or zero-energy standards in our buildings, we would save more natural gas than we could import with nabucco and south stream and nord stream combined.
it is therefore important that our resolution stresses that the cost-effective options of renewable energy, energy efficiency strategy and energy saving must be given special attention.
secondly, an important message of this resolution is that we need a common external energy security policy for the union - which has not yet been achieved!
this policy should include the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy in the framework of the neighbourhood policy and a common union position in negotiations with transit countries.
nabucco is a high priority project in our view because it would strengthen energy independence, particularly vis-à-vis russia, even if i agree with mr kasoulides who said that there are still a number of open questions to be answered.
we regret, however, that some members are undermining the policy of energy independence by supporting the south stream project, which is openly anti-nabucco.
for us greens, it is also important in energy policy that we do not forget human rights in the energy dialogue, that we do not put human rights dialogue on the back burner.
energy security is rightly on the foreign policy agenda today.
but instead of securing power and influence and the last fossil resources, instead of being capricious about dependencies, i believe that a sustainable energy policy faces entirely different challenges.
firstly, it is a question of a global energy transition towards more renewable energy sources, more energy efficiency and energy saving, not and above all not only about the dispute over energy foreign policy, but about intelligent affordable energy for everyone.
secondly, energy security must be part of a responsible peace and development policy of the european union.
access to energy is crucial for every person, for economic development and for poverty reduction.
a project like desertec must not therefore be a continuation of colonialism by means of energy policy.
what do people in african countries, with their growing populations and increasing energy demands, gain from this?
global energy security is also crisis prevention and peace policy.
as energy suppliers - see nabucco - these countries are becoming more and more interesting for the eu, but i miss conflict prevention and sustainable development concepts on the ground.
it is time for the eu to end its foreign energy policy, which only intensifies the competition for oil and gas reserves or spreads nuclear technology!
real partnerships for renewable energy, for decentralized supply are the order of the day!
energy is a vital lifeline for society as a whole, for individuals and for the economy.
that is why it is important that we in europe find common solutions, although it is certainly also right that the energy mix remains a national responsibility, so that we do not have to fight our dispute over nuclear energy, low-carbon energy, etc., where i have different views from, for example, mr bütikofer, in the joint deliberations.
we must also negotiate with russia on questions relating to the partnership and cooperation agreements and energy security, after russia has withdrawn from the energy charter - wrongly, not rightly!
competition law, in the sense that it does not allow the major supplier, such as gazprom or other companies ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, energy security is for us to a large extent a question of energy independence, as many have said, and, as mr piebalgs said correctly, the most effective strategy is that of efficiency, savings and renewables.
but let me say why we do not believe that a nuclear strategy is a strategy of independence, certainly not of energy independence.
and, if we speak about security, we have to mention the security implications of nuclear energy, namely nuclear proliferation, and we see the problems that we have with that in other very high-profile security issues.
we cannot neglect that, and we cannot say that nuclear energy is completely separate from the question of nuclear proliferation.
it is also high time that security of supply was recognised as a central problem in energy policy.
we must say yes to ccs, we must say yes to nuclear energy, yes to renewable energy, yes to savings.
the present resolution again emphasizes the need to develop a consistent european foreign policy, also from the point of view of energy security.
on the subject of diversification of sources of supply, i would also like to draw your attention to a neighbouring region which has so far been characterised by stability and reliability in supplying europe, which also has a great potential for development, and which is also becoming more accessible as a result of climate change: the arctic region.
in order to safeguard our long-term european interests in this region too, i therefore call for the development of a pragmatic, long-term strategy with partners such as norway and iceland, aimed at cooperation with russia, the usa and canada, balancing interests there and covering not only issues of common security of supply, but also environmental issues and access to the new ice-free transport routes.
we are also avoiding the potential for conflict that might otherwise arise in the run-up to the remaining energy sources.
what concrete measures are planned for the network infrastructure, a major problem in the development of renewable energy?
they often carry a heavy human, economic and environmental cost.
in the future, climate change makes it likely that we will face more disasters.
in copenhagen, less than two months from now, the world will reach an agreement to meet the climate challenge.
with 48 days to go until the opening of the major un climate conference, it is high time that political will was translated into concrete action.
for the swedish presidency, a comprehensive and ambitious climate agreement is of the utmost priority.
we are taking on the challenge of bringing the rest of the world together in an agreement that is sufficient to meet the climate challenge.
the eu already has a foundation through the climate and energy package agreed by the european parliament and the council in december 2008. i would like to thank in particular the commitment shown by many in this parliament in the work on the climate and energy package.
emissions must be limited to the level required to keep global temperature rise below 2 degrees.
the eu wants to reduce emissions by 30% by 2020, provided that other parties also make sufficient commitments.
by 2050, emissions should be reduced by at least 80%.
developing countries have the opportunity to achieve sustainable development while reducing emissions.
it is about planning for low-emission growth and integrating climate change and adaptation into national development strategies.
it is a way of making climate and development policies permeate all policy decisions and ensuring that growth is shared by all, of building and opening up democratic governance, of contributing to gender equality and of combating and reducing poverty.
by 2020, emissions need to be reduced by up to 30% compared to what would have happened without action.
the european council has concluded that climate change is undermining efforts to combat poverty and promote sustainable development.
climate change is a threat to the mdgs.
all countries, except the least developed, should bear the costs of climate change action, but we in the developed countries must show leadership by reducing emissions ourselves and funding important efforts.
such a structure should also help the poorest and most vulnerable countries, which are often the hardest hit by climate change.
we in the eu are also prepared to provide rapid funding for immediate action as early as 2012 as a way of increasing confidence between north and south in the climate negotiations.
developing countries are the most vulnerable countries to climate change.
the eu is the first donor in the world and a leader in the fight against climate change.
there is no place for north-south confrontation when you are dealing with climate change.
our general approach towards the most vulnerable countries, followed up to now through the global climate change alliance, is made up of three parallel strands, which are interlinked and are mutually reinforcing.
first, building political alliances through reinforced dialogue on climate change.
second, promoting sound policies and strategies linking climate change and development.
i am of the opinion that climate resilience and low carbon policies must be integrated into wider developments and the poverty reduction strategies of our partners.
there can only be a single development strategy, which incorporates climate concerns pursuing the objectives of sustainable development and poverty reduction.
third, encouraging adequate eu contribution to finance climate actions, in particular for adaptation, which is the priority concern for those countries that are most vulnerable to climate change impact, but that hardly contribute to greenhouse gas emissions.
one of them is the need for short-term international public funding for climate to be scaled up for the period 2010-2012 to respond as a priority to urgent needs identified in the most vulnerable developing countries and in particular ldcs, sids, and african countries as defined in the bali action plan.
another one is the readiness of the eu to take on its fair share of the estimated financing requirements, public funding contributions being based on preferred criteria of ability to pay and responsibility for emissions.
they have to take the opportunity offered by climate financing to fully integrate adaptation into their development strategies and to move gradually to low-carbon development paths for the longer term.
although the focus has been up to now on adaptation for the poorest and most vulnerable developing countries, there is some ground to promote the design of low carbon development paths (i.e.
a specific focus on mechanisms to avoid deforestation and promote sustainable management of forests is crucial.
indeed, the fight against tropical deforestation is the largest immediate mitigation challenge for the ldcs, and they can be beneficiaries, through mechanisms such as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation schemes, of its international financing.
finally, a word on the delivery channels for climate funding.
new funding for climate should use existing and potentially improved delivery channels, promoting a decentralised bottom-up governance structure in support of country-owned actions.
the commission is not it is a pleasure to see you, as a former member of the climate committee, in this debate.
i've been involved since the climate conference in rio in 1991. the mood before these conferences is always the same, but there are also opportunities.
europe can then sell efficient machinery to the rest of the world, for example to china, where energy is currently produced in a highly inefficient way.
so i see not only the imminent danger of climate change, but i also see a very real opportunity to use cutting-edge technology to advance the economy and the national economy.
president rehn has praised this parliament for its work in bringing about the climate package, and indeed we want to be more ambitious.
this result shows that the denial of climate change, the ignorance of these issues, is represented here in the house by a tiny minority that really does not deserve attention and that, although it has spoken out here on several occasions, is actually against the will of the citizens in all the countries of the european union.
we need a global pact against climate change, and that means we also need a global pact of solidarity between rich countries and poor countries.
climate change is an opportunity for us, and also for developing countries, to take a low-carbon approach with new technologies, with the modernisation of infrastructure.
we have joined in the funding of the demand that the eu needs 30 billion euros by 2020 and that financial instruments that are sustainable and predictable must be developed.
development and climate change are not opposites but must be brought together in a synthesis in copenhagen.
the issue of climate change will concern us for much longer than the financial and economic crisis.
we did a good job yesterday, we adopted the resolution in the committee on the environment by a large majority, and i think that this resolution will get a large majority here in parliament so that we can change the political climate on the way to copenhagen.
we have been working here in the european parliament on the integration of air transport into the emissions trading scheme and we have successfully completed this.
these two transport sectors are growing disproportionately and contributing disproportionately to global warming.
that's where the parallel between the financial crisis and climate change ends.
a meeting in brussels a few days ago with commissioner vassillou, the commissioner for health, and medical experts from all over europe focused on the theme 'health and climate change'.
it is equally true that climate change affects everyone, all countries on earth and all sectors of the european economy.
i think there is an imbalance: we are placing very heavy burdens on the traditional participants in the european emissions trading system.
but these represent less than 50% of the european union's emissions.
the commission is not the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy is a very important one.
he has proposed that the council should re-examine the need to set a 30% co2 reduction target for the european union, with a possible 40% opening for developed countries, and he has and this is central to the international negotiations proposed that europe should provide €30 billion for the climate fund for developing countries from 2020. what will you do, what can you do, to bring these important, unavoidable and just demands to the council?
i think that we should not keep an unsustainable model so at a certain moment we have to come back to sustainability.
europe is freedom, democracy and solidarity, or, to put it another way, social and environmental responsibility.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
- ladies and gentlemen, it is no secret that the environment committee has repeatedly - and this year too - expressed the view that the money available in the european budget is not enough to finance truly effective environmental programmes, the conservation of our biodiversity and a decisive fight against climate change.
in times of crisis, we need to have the political courage to act, we need to spend more money on the right, sustainable investments for the future.
because we have an ecological and an economic crisis, and we have a crisis of hunger and poverty in the world.
we need a sustainability transformation, we need a green new deal, and this is in terms of the lisbon strategy, we need more sustainable technologies, green efficiency technologies, new drive systems and of course also new materials that are really environmentally friendly.
but we also have to - and this is why the green new deal is really a cross-cutting task - change the structural fund policy and make it greener, in terms of refurbishing old buildings, in terms of new and more sustainable mobility concepts.
we must change our agricultural policy, which must be more ecological.
but energy production can also play a major role in agriculture and can be environmentally friendly and ecological.
that would be more ecological and much more beneficial to the dairy farmers than what we are doing now.
we want a green energy policy, we want broadband in rural areas and we want europe-wide electricity grids.
(applause from the centre) on climate: mr president barroso, you have rarely received such support from me as you will see today.
i am very, very, very excited that you have said here again how important it is that the europeans commit a clear sum to this international fund for climate action for developing countries.
the eu is committed to providing €100 billion from 2020 to help developing countries meet their climate commitments and adaptation measures.
the european union, as it negotiated yesterday in luxembourg, is not the locomotive, it is not taking the lead in international climate action, but it is one of the big blockers.
mrs malmström, i think the swedes are negotiating well, you must be consistent and respect the vote of the environment committee in parliament.
this strategy of your state-owned company vattenfall is counteracting your good reputation in the preparation of the world climate negotiations.
please also ensure that vattenfall's action against the federal republic of germany for the obligation to implement environmental legislation in germany for vattenfall's coal-fired power stations is withdrawn.
it was also about a new economic programme for europe, about creating and maintaining jobs, about higher investment and sustainable ecological growth.
the treaty of amsterdam provides the legal basis for a common energy policy and for a common climate policy.
and the environment committee has also made clear its position on funding.
we must make europe more social, we must make europe more ecological, and we must make europe more democratic.
these are issues that are really important to the citizens of europe, whether it be the economic crisis, how to overcome it, the prospects for more employment, climate change, and afghanistan.
but i warn you that both in terms of funding and in terms of who is doing the reductions, we always look at the industry that has been covered by the emissions trading scheme since 2005. we need more shoulders.
more than 50% of emissions are not covered by emissions trading.
the environment committee did that on monday.
we need this service now, for example, when copenhagen is about climate change.
as regards climate issues, we welcome the increased ambition of the united states in this respect.
the united states and the eu must be prepared to jointly support climate action such as emission reduction, adaptation, financing and other support to developing countries.
we also have cooperation on energy issues which now needs to be strengthened, and we hope that we can establish a special energy council between the eu and the us at ministerial level.
− mr president, in my remarks i shall touch upon the forthcoming eu-us summit that will be an important milestone in our transatlantic partnership, as well as addressing certain eu-us aspects, particularly on climate change negotiations under way and also some critical gls issues.
the global economy and climate change are likely to be the two major areas of focus of the summit discussion, in addition to a number of key foreign policy challenges.
on the economy, the focus in washington will be on joint efforts to combat the economic and financial crisis and securing a sustainable global economic recovery to secure jobs and create growth.
secondly, on climate change, we as the european union will encourage the us to go to the copenhagen conference with ambitious objectives to reach a sound global agreement, and we will also engage with the us to make progress on establishing a cap-and-trade system across the atlantic.
last but not least, a further major summit outcome will be the creation of a new eu-us energy council which will have its first meeting on 4 november.
the council will look at global energy security, energy markets and product regulation, at new technologies and research.
that will be complementary to the energy council, which we will re-energise as well.
the tec meets in washington next tuesday – so before the energy council – and its outcome will obviously feed into the summit talks as well.
the commissioner should ensure that energy security policy is dealt with in the new energy security council and regulatory issues are dealt with in the tec and that these are not mixed together so that we do not have duplication and that we do not end up with no solution at the end of the day.
let me make one final comment on the summit: climate change, afghanistan, nonproliferation, weapons of mass destruction, disarmament are important issues where new opportunities are opening up with the new administration.
both sides of the transatlantic dialogue agree that overcoming the economic crisis and combating climate change are overriding priorities.
cooperation on innovation for the development of low carbon economies, energy efficient societies is particularly important.
in this context, the commission is prepared to consider the possibility of providing financial support to the international observation and protection mission in order to protect the members of the commission and witnesses against acts of intimidation and to contribute to the establishment of a climate of security among the population of guinea.
there are obstacles to reconciliation on the island as long as tamil grievances are not taken into account and a climate of impunity prevails.
the purpose of this mission was to determine whether or not the country was fulfilling the commitments it made when it became a beneficiary of the european union's special scheme for sustainable development and good governance (sustainable development and good governance gsp plus), namely its commitments to respect international human rights standards.
in contrast, we got a clearer message on climate change – the other main subject for the meeting.
the message from a number of member states was that they were not ready to commit to figures on climate financing, i.e.
our objective at the european council was – as december’s climate change conference in copenhagen approaches – to continue to lead the way on climate change.
our ambition with the strategy is to address the urgent environmental challenges related to the baltic sea, and to contribute to the economic success of the region.
the economic crisis is far from over, but we have a solid mandate going into the climate negotiations.
as regards policy, the key deliverable was the very important agreement on our action on climate change.
the message is clear: the european union is ready for copenhagen and ready to follow our action to cut emissions with a powerful offer on climate finance, just as the commission proposed in september, both in the longer term and in ‘fast start’ funding.
our assessment is that by 2020 developing countries will need around an additional eur 100 billion a year to tackle climate change and this was fully backed by the european council, as is the likely share of public international finance in that figure, and agreement that the european union will pay its fair share.
it is about using our leverage to bring about the maximum possible in terms of a global effort to cut emissions.
of course we will continue to respect the important requirement of common but differential responsibility for climate change but, as i have said many times recently, we are all in this together, and we in the european union will continue to push for real contributions from all the other players.
we need to keep focused on the end goal – ambitious, serious, verifiable cuts in emissions to ensure that we keep within our target of limiting temperature increase to less than 2°c.
we also have to put together all community competences – from the economy to trade, from enlargement to development, from energy to justice – where the european commission president represents the european union according to the treaty.
if you measure what europeans have actually done in terms of effective climate policy, in terms of co2 emissions, in terms of what has actually been achieved, in terms of what we have set reduction targets, in terms of what is regulated in our climate package, none of that is enough to achieve the two-degree target that is being touted everywhere.
in the background , i always fear one thing: the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the eu's environmental policy.
the economic crisis is the worst excuse for not making ambitious climate action.
climate change and economic development are two sides of the same coin, but you don't feel that anywhere in european decisions in the european council.
but precisely because the left in europe wants social, peaceful and ecologically sustainable european integration, we will continue to use the treaty foundations in this sense.
the biggest challenge facing the world is climate change.
the european union is unfortunately falling short of the leadership it has promised itself on the way to the world climate conference in copenhagen.
the first is that the substantive commitments to reduce co2 emissions do not meet the requirements.
already today, climate change is creating poverty and hunger, forcing millions of people to flee their homes.
climate change, poverty reduction and peace are just such challenges.
one of the most important issues will be climate change.
russia should commit to substantial and comparable reductions in its greenhouse gas emissions, consistent with the two-degree target agreed by the g8 in l'aquila.
energy is linked to this energy efficiency and energy security.
given russia's position as the eu's main energy partner, the summit gives us the opportunity to stress the need to restore confidence and predictability in eu-russia relations in the energy field.
we will also express our disappointment at russia's recent withdrawal from the energy city treaty.
this should be accompanied by clear guarantees from russia, as well as from other relevant third countries individually, that the transit of or export of gas to the eu will not be reduced or stopped in the event of future energy disputes.
the stockholm summit next week will therefore focus on areas – as has been said already – where there is mutual interest, for example climate change and energy, and the global economic crisis.
this is important, not least in the context of the ongoing negotiations for the new agreement which are being held by the commission and which must contain clear, legally binding provisions on trade and investment and also on energy.
turning to climate change, my colleague has already said that the summit should underline the leading roles that russia and the european union can play together in achieving results at the copenhagen meeting.
russia has the scope to make a very substantial contribution, given its enormous scope for emissions reductions through improvements in energy efficiency.
we will therefore be calling on russia to commit itself to more ambitious reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, comparable with the targets we have set ourselves in the eu.
on energy security, work continues on an enhanced early warning mechanism.
we regret russia’s withdrawal from the energy charter treaty (ect), but we recall that the principles of the ect were affirmed under russia’s presidency of the g8, for instance in the st petersburg declaration.
these should therefore form the basis of our work on energy security under the new eu-russia agreement.
while we should be ready to discuss russia’s wish for a wider debate on international energy security architecture, i think we will also want, above all, to establish the essentials of our bilateral energy relationship.
the keywords on the long agenda include the planned cooperation agreement, the security of energy supplies, russia's accession to the wto, climate change, the situation in the caucasus and, last but not least, the state of democracy and the rule of law in russia.
as equally dependent on energy supplies, we need to ensure that the arrangements in the russia-ukraine-eu triangular relationship are designed in such a way that gas pressure does not fall in parts of the eu every winter.
and this includes russia's integration into international frameworks such as the wto and the energy charter.
the european parliament has been a driving force in the climate debate in recent years, and we also have a high stake in the eu's climate action package.
that's why we have to stick to our pledge to reduce co2 emissions by 30% by 2020. science tells us, at the upper end, between 25 percent and 40 percent.
we know that without funding, global climate change is not possible.
when i see how much money we've raised to deal with the banking crisis, it's peanuts to deal with the climate crisis, where we don't get a second chance.
once the climate is broken, it's broken, and we're not going to be able to fix it.
it cannot be that the two biggest polluters of the climate, the united states and china, are playing a game of ping-pong, each pointing to the other and showing hesitation.
this is irresponsible, and i hope that the united states in particular will show leadership in copenhagen, with concrete data on reducing its own greenhouse gas emissions and also a share of the funding.
it means, has meant and will mean a great deal for the strength of the eu now in copenhagen and also in the very important climate work that lies ahead of us thereafter.
the commission as such has played a crucial role as the backbone of the eu's climate policy, and not least stavros dimas has personally played a crucial role in the commission adopting the stance it has taken.
let me also say about rapid action - action to stop deforestation and action to take money from climate-destroying aviation and shipping to important action in not least the poorest eu countries - that they must deliver results now.
that is why we are now also pushing for other parties to raise their bids in the final round, while also saying 'look at us, we have shown a practical way to really reduce emissions'.
otherwise, those 10 percentage points of additional eu action would be eaten up by just two years of emissions increases in china, and we still haven't saved the climate.
secondly, it is cheaper today, much cheaper than when we were discussing our climate and energy package: it is cheaper by about 30-40% now to achieve this target.
of course, because it will provide a better price for carbon, which is very low today, and in this way it will be an important incentive for eco-innovation and for development and deployment of new technologies.
of course we need a binding treaty, once for all on the whole question of climate protection, but also in europe for our european industry.
we must clearly commit ourselves to a global carbon budget.
the effects of climate change are visible in many parts of the world.
the much faster melting of the arctic ice is mainly due to soot emissions from europe, which are carried there by the winds.
the rich industrialised countries in the eu are now obliged to provide financial support to poorer countries to enable them to take immediate action against the effects of climate change.
the eu has an obligation to take the lead at the copenhagen climate conference.
we have also had different opinions here in the context of the climate debates on the cause and effect of this climate change.
i have to say, madam president, the european climate policy should say goodbye to daydreaming and take account of international realities.
a lot of symbolism, but no emissions cuts.
the same scientists who two years ago endorsed the conclusions of the ipcc panel are now talking about natural influences on climate, which the ipcc categorically ruled out two years ago.
we should know how much we can be sure about what affects climate change when we make policy decisions.
so i'm calling for a change in strategy: first, we should adapt to unavoidable climate change, and second, we should abandon the ideological carbon debate and seek international allies to accelerate the exploration of new energy sources and clean technologies.
this applies to industrial production as much as to energy production, but also, and especially, to transport.
this means that climate protection costs money too!
we are indeed the frontrunners in europe in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport.
i would simply remind you that we have also agreed together in this house that we want to include aviation, but also shipping, in emissions trading in a special way.
the environmental contribution of electricity generation is certainly included in the co2 reduction, road transport is included in the different ways of charging a toll.
it will be very important that this is also discussed at the copenhagen conference, and the same applies to shipping, which is of course also very environmentally friendly in terms of specific energy consumption per tonne and per kilometre.
the ambitious targets are good, and ultimately the efforts we make today to achieve them are also a contribution to tomorrow, in terms of the consequences and the future damage in terms of migration, damage to coastal areas or perhaps in the form that stable regions become more unstable as a result of climate change.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a motion for a resolution to wind up this debate.
in order to minimise the risks to humans and the environment from the use of plant protection products, we need harmonised risk indicators based on comparable and reliable data from all member states.
our starting point should be to seek broad and sustainable solutions, based on the global approach to migration and the recognition that joint cooperation with third countries is a crucial factor.
at the same time, we must be clear that a comprehensive approach is needed that is sustainable in both the short and long term.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
maintaining and strengthening europe's competitiveness on the global market, combating climate change and addressing the challenges of an ageing population are demanding tasks for the european union and its member states in the medium and long term.
it is about recognising the potential of transforming europe into an eco-efficient or climate-smart economy and creating a labour market with high levels of employment, sustainable public finances and social cohesion.
the swedish presidency is conducting a second follow-up to the eu's sustainability strategy.
these are the rapidly increasing demand for natural resources, the decline in biodiversity, the increasing energy consumption of transport and the persistence of global poverty.
in this context, i would like to highlight in particular the vision of sustainable economic growth, jobs and innovation in an eco-efficient way.
the climate change.
of course, just as the european council is meeting, so are the climate negotiations in copenhagen.
the swedish presidency's main priorities have been to respond to the demands of climate change and to ensure that the eu maintains its leadership in the copenhagen negotiations, while being responsible for the continued response to the economic and financial crisis.
first, climate change.
the european union has shown itself the pioneer of action on climate change.
we have been the first to put a binding, tough target for reduced emissions on the table.
we have led the way in defining how the developing world can make a real contribution to financing the costs of climate change in developing countries.
we need to stay united and to keep focused on our goal of cutting global emissions and getting the necessary finance on the table; that is our task.
we need a clear, simple political text that shows that we are moving from talking about tackling climate change to doing something about it.
that means specific individual numbers on reduction of emissions and a detailed finance package to help developing countries both to develop mitigation programmes and to adapt to climate change.
i know this goal is shared by this parliament, and i urge you to work with the council to allow final adoption by mid-2010, so that effective new authorities can be in place by the end of 2010. to conclude, climate change, freedom, security and justice, and the response to the economic and financial crisis – these are three areas which impact on citizens every day of their lives and three areas where the european council can show that the lisbon treaty has indeed opened a new chapter in the history of the european project.
the question of whether climate change can really be contained, whether copenhagen will be a failure or a success, is what people are interested in.
in my opinion, there is not enough discussion about climate change.
there is also not enough discussion about the fact that, for example, in tackling climate change, investing in environmentally friendly technology in industry has enormous job potential, that green technology is a project of the future, that industrial policy and environmental protection do not have to be mutually exclusive, but combined.
can europe's energy security problem be solved peacefully?
we expect the ecological, social and financial structure of your commission to be as we social democrats demand it, preferably under the leadership of social democratic commissioners, and then nothing can happen to you.
my analysis of the core problem behind this is that climate protection is seen as a burden and that the opportunities that lie in a consistent climate policy are not recognized.
the lisbon strategy has actually long had the task of promoting sustainable development.
the environment, social justice, sustainability have always been pushed to the side, to the detriment of old, in my view outdated, industrial, economic and even research priorities.
thirdly, i would like to stress once again that the council must send a clear signal to copenhagen for a binding agreement on climate change.
the only way to ensure lasting prosperity is to have an ecological economy.
i want to conclude by saying that we are on the verge of stockholm, and if we do not take advantage of what is possible there now, at any cost - some are willing to spend hundreds of billions to protect the banks, but to be picky about the climate - if we do not act very quickly and consistently, then humanity, like me, as a speaker, is running out of time at this moment.
the fdp members of the european parliament abstained on the copenhagen resolution for the following reasons: the resolution contains statements on the financing of climate action in third countries without defining precise criteria or financing purposes.
the call for concrete designs of co2 trading systems for aviation is contrary to existing eu legislation and overburdens the eu's negotiating position for an international climate agreement with unrealistic demands.
climate protection is an important objective, but the panic before the copenhagen climate summit is an outrage and not scientifically serious.
this includes not ignoring cases where, for example, illegal toxic waste exports or illegal fishing are harmful to somali interests, and for this reason these should be pursued with all the necessary consequences.
the compromise resolution on a smoke-free environment, which is to be voted on thursday, goes far beyond the protection of non-smokers.
over one billion people in the world presently do not meet their daily basic nutritional needs, and the situation is threatening to get worse in many developing countries, owing also to the effects of climate change, which is posing additional challenges to these countries’ capacity to become food secure.
we debate for weeks, even for years, about the climate in a hundred years.
the people who are hungry today and tomorrow don't care about the climate in a hundred years, they want to have something to eat tomorrow!
for the policy groups cohesion, research, energy and transport and external aid, development and enlargement, the court continues to give adverse opinions concluding that they are affected by material error, although to different levels.
although there continues to be a material level of error in research, energy and transport, remedial measures taken by the commission have helped to reduce it.
simplification remains a priority if further significant and sustainable reductions in the level of irregular payments are to be achieved.
i would refer to chapter 7 of the court of auditors' report, which deals with research, energy and transport.
it is clear that any waste and any mistake in the handling of taxpayers' money is too much.
i would like to comment on two aspects of the smoke-free environment.
as much as i am in favour of a smoke-free environment, i am in favour of playing by the rules in this case.
olive oil prices reached a record level four years ago due to unfavourable climate conditions.
we need planning certainty in agriculture, and agricultural policy must be sustainable.
agriculture that continues to industrialize will lead to further loss of biodiversity, and with industrialized agriculture we also increase the burden of co2 and methane.
it cannot be the solution that we address climate change but go further into industrialization!
fourthly, we must make a decisive improvement and simplification in the use of agricultural raw materials for the production of renewable energy in the sense of market regulation.
this is where access for the vulnerable, the inclusion of human rights and environmental objectives are at risk.
i don't want to talk about the fact that if we continue as we have been doing, there will of course be consequences for the global climate if we don't get reasonable rules.
climate change has already forced more than 40 million people to flee, and the growth of global financial trade has led to the worst economic crisis in 80 years.
mr zahradie, we have a historic task here, to set in motion a completely new regulation of the world economy, guided by the objectives of sustainability, environmental protection, social justice and food security.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new community rules on the protection of the environment.
thirdly, we believe that the sustainability and success of such a programme requires mentoring and coaching.
this is not a sustainable way of combating unemployment.
if we are to achieve sustainable employment for the citizens of europe, we must ensure that people can put their own good ideas into practice and generate their own income, especially now, in a difficult economic situation.
now we have integrated the second tranche of the so-called economic recovery package of 2.4 billion euros into these agreements, and it was right to finance the second half with 2.4 billion in 2010 and not to partially postpone it to 2011. it was not a stimulus package, of course, but it was the right policy priorities, complementary to each other, in terms of energy and broadband in rural areas.
we have used the flexibility instrument to finance an additional 120 million for energy projects and 75 million for the kosloduy nuclear power plant.
we also carried out a review of unused 2009 appropriations to bring the total to 1.9 billion for energy and an additional 420 million for broadband internet in category ii.
but i would like to add, while the copenhagen conference is still in progress: we are, of course, dealing with a much more existential crisis, namely whether we, globally, will be able to save our planet and limit global warming to 2 degrees celsius.
we have to switch to renewable energy.
we need to move to a low-carbon economy.
we must therefore also spend more on research, research into sustainability, new materials, new products.
we must do so in a way that benefits the european single market, but also that the european union has new opportunities in the world market of green technologies, of ecological products.
these too must undergo a significant change in terms of renovation of old buildings, transport policy and sustainable transport policy.
we will act accordingly and do everything we can to make our agricultural policy sustainable and innovative.
we need sustainable instruments now so that we as the european union can face the challenges of the near future, democratically legitimized, as our president, alain lamassoure, has just called for once again on behalf of us all.
but if you appoint a climate commissioner, you also have to show that behind that climate commissioner there is real power and that she has access to areas like energy, industry, transport, environment or agriculture.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i would like to ask again: how can the commissioner for climate change be strong, how can she assert herself if this is not reflected in the structures, according to the second option?
secondly, there is another detail which seems to us to be totally unreasonable, namely that the green genetic technology which you, mr barroso, are in favour of is now in the health sector and is no longer in the environment sector or in the agricultural sector.
i would like to address the issue of the 2020 climate strategy again, in addition to the question already raised.
mr president, is it true that the provisional emissions trading system allows europe's largest steel company to emit 90 million tonnes of co2, whereas last year it had 68 million tonnes and this year 43 million tonnes?
could it be that europe's largest steel company will be earning a billion pounds by 2012 from the emissions it has lobbied too much for, including at the commission?
i think the whole political climate has also changed and the political balance has changed and that has affected our discussions on these issues.
the council is well advised, but so is the commission, in trying to find a majority in parliament on the basis of this new treaty which also meets the social, environmental and financial challenges which they themselves formulate in their programmes.
influencing the control of financial markets, influencing climate change, influencing economic policy efforts to revitalise the economy - this can only be done by europe as a whole and through the interaction of its institutions.
it has been assessed by many experts in copenhagen that what you have been offering so far, even in the best of circumstances, will lead to emissions in europe not decreasing but increasing by 2020. so please, mr reinfeldt, make it clear how we are going to achieve the two-degree target if we stick to what is currently being offered.
these are people who have been working really hard for years, in some cases for decades, on climate policy.
our starting point is clear: the social and environmental interests of the people must be preserved above all else, above all the profit interests of a few.
the commission's powers are increasingly broad, from environmental to financial policy.
they've had some really tough issues with climate, the financial crisis, the lisbon treaty and the new commission.
the second area is climate policy.
we can make climate policy like china and the united states, making big proclamations but not getting results.
i am opposed to greenpeace becoming the benchmark for european climate policy.
in particular, we are ready to actively discuss how the directive works in practice, and how to take best account of a swiftly changing environment in the coming years.
we must focus on the development of infrastructure, particularly in the new member states, on the development of research and innovation, and we must of course bear in mind that we will have to respond to challenges such as climate change, demographic change and globalisation with european cohesion policy in the future.
because it is not good governance if the commission secretly launches strategic papers instead of having a public debate on how we can continue the solidarity mechanism in the face of the great challenges, namely the challenge of climate change, demographic change, and all this with tight budgetary funds.
it must ensure that there is sustainable development in the regions.
this is a great way to promote sustainable development and to involve everyone in order to achieve a very large local acceptance.
we must and can integrate these new challenges in the environment, energy policy or demographic change into the established support structures.
− mr president, azerbaijan is important to the european union as an energy producer and transit country, and also as a contributor to regional stability in the southern caucasus.
in line with the council’s decision, the start of negotiations for all the southern caucasus countries will be conditional on sufficient progress in meeting the necessary political conditions, namely the rule of law and respect for human rights, the principles of the market economy, as well as sustainable development and good governance.