just as we have groundwater, which we want to take care of in my country, and which i am using as an example here, there are of course other countries which have various other things that we want to protect in terms of the environment and health, and it must never be the eu which forces a country to have a lower level of protection.
it's a victory for health and the environment.
i voted for the laperrouze report, but i also voted for a number of amendments, all of which called into question the a-power as the energy source of the future.
in voting for the whole report, i support its many good elements, but i also recognise that a majority see a-power as part of europe's carbon-free energy mix.
the solution of the future is a massive investment and development of renewable energy.
i have to say, madam president, the report also stresses that the prevention of climate change must be part of our whole thinking when we work with relevant areas of law such as agriculture, fisheries, construction, development and foreign policy.
climate policy cannot stand alone; it must be integrated into all our legislation.
eu leaders decided almost two years ago that the eu should take the lead in securing a global climate agreement in copenhagen.
we have now adopted our climate package here in the european parliament.
let us use the crisis as an opportunity to kick-start the much-needed development of renewable energy and energy-saving technologies.
finally, i am pleased that the need to ratify the lisbon treaty is underlined, since the fight against climate change at international level must be a specific objective of the eu under the lisbon treaty.
the word 'security' in its broadest sense: mitigation of financial crisis, economic crisis, the importance of employment and economic security, security of energy supply, safe transport, security and safety of citizens in relation to the problems created by immigration, the problems posed by demographic trends with fewer young people to support more elderly, the need for better environmental protection, the need to combat terrorism and the need to promote security and safety through the eu's role in the world.
energy security must be ensured by a variety of initiatives, but we want special support for nabucco, which is a project independent of gasprom.
i also need to know whether the chemical industry or environmental organisations are at the table when a water plan is drawn up in the eu.
- meps anne e. jensen, karin riis-jørgensen and niels busk of the left group voted in favour of liberal group amendment no 96 to delete article 16 (4) because spreading manure is not in line with the objective of the ippc, which aims to combat emissions from large industrial installations.
the result we have achieved is a great success for the environment and for european shipping.
in recent years, the eu has been largely setting the standard for the environmental impact of shipping through legislation and the work of the international maritime organisation (imo).
shipping is global and for the sake of fair competition and the environment, it is important to have common rules at global level.
the seven directives in the third maritime safety package will prevent pollution, ensure a better coordinated response when disaster strikes and prevent bad ships from gaining access to eu waters.
it has had a profound impact on the lives of tens of thousands of eu citizens living in spain, as well as on the spanish environment and economy.
there is the problem of the disastrous effects of considerable urbanisation on the environment, particularly in the coastal areas and the spanish islands, but also in other areas, for example around madrid.
i have no doubt about the responsibility for these massive abuses and i regret that these violations by local and regional authorities have undermined the efforts of many others to achieve sustainable development, where a healthy economy goes hand in hand with respect for nature and for cultural heritage.
we must change that if we are to prevent an ecological crisis.
the eco-label we are now revising is a tool to promote the production and sale of goods produced in a sustainable way.
if the producer cannot use the label to market a good product, why try to produce the most sustainable product in a product group?
we need to change the way we produce and consume goods if we want our economies to be sustainable.
i hope that the tool we have improved here will be a good tool for promoting a more sustainable planet.
the marco polo programme since 2003 has aimed to achieve a more sustainable transport system in europe by shifting a substantial part of the annual growth in road freight transport to modes of transport that are less harmful to the environment, such as inland waterways, rail transport, short sea shipping.
do not waste this opportunity!
the outcome of the g20 should ensure an adequate balance between short-term fiscal expansion, which is, of course, necessary, and long-term fiscal sustainability, which calls for an orderly withdrawal of the stimulus when the time comes.
here also, the european consensus on the need to protect medium-term fiscal sustainability contributed to the balanced line adopted in london.
a fundamental adjustment of the global growth model – i am referring to the huge us budget deficit and the big chinese trade surplus – may be needed in order for the global economy to return to a sustainable growth path.
on climate change, the june european council will revert to the preparations of the copenhagen summit on climate change.
this crisis is an opportunity for us to renew our european model of a social market economy based on our values and environment.
historic decisions have been taken to combat climate change and strengthen our energy security.
substantive reforms have been undertaken in the areas of the internal market, the social agenda, telecommunications, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs.
let me mention a few that have been at the heart of the agenda of the commission i chair: the internal energy market, maritime safety, measures to strengthen regulation and supervision of financial markets, the €5 billion stimulus package to transform europe into a sustainable economy.
on climate change, we need to keep up the momentum towards an ambitious agreement at copenhagen in december.
we need to seize this opportunity to rebuild the foundations of our very own european brand of social and ecological market economy.
first of all, all the promises about how to use the eu to create a better economy, to solve the climate problems, etc., but not a word about the problems that the eu creates.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
some eur 100 million has been spent on an environmental analysis by the company that will lay the nord stream pipeline.
i shall not touch on the security aspect of russia's significant increase in influence in the baltic sea, but i shall stick to the environmental aspect.
another part of the reality - and for those who support the treaty, at least, it must be a very unpleasant part of the reality - is the way in which this treaty can be realised, which is the only way, namely in a climate of fear.
a climate of fear that within the united kingdom we are facing a new situation which means that we have to ask the british people.
it must be very unpleasant to be able to realize one's own visions in a climate of fear that the people of yet another country will be asked questions, that democracy will once again be allowed to speak.
mr president, last night the environment committee adopted with great applause a wish list for santa claus at the copenhagen climate summit in december.
as you know, it determines a very large part of the climate of our planet.
as you know, the commission has been extremely strict, under the terms of the stability and growth pact, in committing ourselves and the european union to the rules of sustainability.
i have already announced the main innovations in the debate with you, including the commissioner for justice and fundamental rights, a commissioner for action on climate change, and of course now i need to have competent men and women, committed to europe, who can carry out their respective tasks in the different portfolios, which will correspond to the priorities of the european union's action.
in fact, that is the core of the programme for the next five years: to invest more in smart, green growth, sustainable growth.
i am for a strong industrial base in europe – but a strong industrial base for the new age of sustainability, where we have to think about green development, green technologies.
so innovation has to be at the core, at the centre of our agenda for growth, new sources of growth promoting the transition to a low-carbon economy: smart green development and innovation.
for us, the financing of the recovery plan's investments in energy and climate policy and the focus on research and innovation have been the main priorities for the 2010 budget.
we therefore support mr surján's proposal to go beyond the multiannual financial framework and see whether the money for energy investments can be raised from unused funds in the agricultural budget.
i have a great christmas wish, namely that when the climate conference is over and all the participants have stopped acting as administrators and technicians who talk only about details and quotas, we can finally have a political debate about what can be done realistically and practically to improve the conditions for our planet and its people.
because if we open our eyes, we can clearly see that the united states, russia, china and many other countries around the world do not realistically have climate on their agenda, but only make beautiful declarations of intent and empty promises.
and this is before climate change really hits us.
but this growth must be green, it must be based on technological change, and it must be sustainable.
one of the things we are very concerned about in the alde group is what portfolios the new climate commissioner will have, as it will be crucial whether he becomes a hot air traveller or a commissioner who can really make a difference in relation to climate change and at the same time ensure good competitiveness in europe.
i would therefore like to ask what the president of the commission is doing and will be doing to ensure that the post of climate commissioner is given the weight that the president of the commission has expressed that it should have.
i have two specific questions in this connection: will the climate commissioner take over the energy sector?
and the climate commissioner gets his own directorate?
the major difficulty we are facing is what mrs mathieu called mixed flows, where we have immigrants who come for economic or environmental reasons and, at the same time, people who are persecuted and who are entitled to international protection or subsidiary protection.
we need to promote decent work in the eu and in the world as a sustainable and strong response to the global crisis we are facing.
in addition to the energy investments in the recovery plan, it has also been possible to allocate additional money to budget lines directed towards research and innovation in the field of energy.