i have to say that european farmers are fully aware that when using plant protection products particular attention must be paid to human health and also to the protection of the environment.
gaza endured a really punishing economic blockade, totally undermining its economic development.in order to achieve a sustainable ceasefire, we have to look for a sensible compromise entailing an end to rocket launches and reopening of the crossings.
we aim, as this intense diplomatic activity shows, to support all relevant actors who have the leverage with hamas to help deliver a sustainable solution as set out in un security council resolution 1860. as soon as this ceasefire is agreed, we will have to think, probably in the form of a conference, how to formulate more concrete measures to alleviate the humanitarian needs of the palestinian population in gaza.
israel therefore cannot afford to waste any time in reaching peace.
that is sometimes frustrating for all of us, particularly in such a difficult moment when you would like to immediately achieve a durable and sustainable ceasefire as we have proposed, but when it can, unfortunately, not be achieved so quickly.
all this, of course, while ensuring fair competition on the basis of the promotion of environmental and social standards in these countries.
mr president, i should like to speak about the need to merge the information technology revolution of the information society with the energy revolution, which has been the subject of an excellent resolution in this house.
in most countries we are producing three times as much energy as we consume, precisely because we are targeting production at 'peak' times of consumption.
with smart grids, this would not happen; with smart grids we could direct consumption to sustainable production and to existing production.
so we can also cooperate with the mediterranean countries, our mediterranean neighbours, who need a big clean, smart grid to connect our southern neighbours, who have access to solar energy that could be produced with high technology, with large plants.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
if the iberian peninsula is suffering from a clear energy isolation, islands such as the balearic islands, where i come from, suffer from the problems of double insularity, which is very unfair to those of us who live there and who, as europeans, have the same rights.
we, together with parliament, are asking the member states whether this kind of money – this eur 5 billion – can be made available solely for energy efficiency.
there are some opportunities to support energy efficiency through the cohesion funds.
i do not know how good an idea this is, because energy still does not fall within the mandate of the community – it is strictly a national matter.
this report is yet another expression of the european union's longstanding concern about climate change and its consequences.
the last set of measures was the recently adopted energy package and this report which we are discussing today is therefore part of that line of action to combat climate change and of the sensitivity shown by the european union.
the fact is that, in the face of climate change, there is nothing to be done but to improve efficiency and this must be the guiding principle, in my view, of all measures taken.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr florenz for his generosity and broad-mindedness and all the groups who have really participated in a political exercise and in a debate on the future and the background, which has had the virtue of accompanying us, clarifying us and giving us the courage and prudence needed for other legislative actions in parallel and at the cutting edge, and also of high risk, such as the climate change package, the policy for vehicles, the lisbon strategy or sectors such as energy, transport, industry, tourism.
i believe that this is a definitive step towards a new model of development, of economic and social growth, but with the requirement of sustainability and of reducing the impact.
i just want to end by highlighting the progress in all things related to adaptation to the water and drought aspects and also the sustainable mobility aspects, which i think we have... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the car industry is not speculative, unlike so many others, and it operates with small unit sales margins, which only turn into profit if they sell a lot of units.
cars may be said to be a major source of greenhouse gas emissions - that is true - but it is no less true that this industry, together with the ancillary sectors, accounts for 10% of the gdp of the european economy, provides 12 million jobs and accounts for 6% of employment in the whole union.
similarly, many riverbeds, streams and other watercourses have accumulated vegetable and other waste that can create barriers or plugs with the risk of producing flooding on a local scale.
in view of these and many other effects, and aware that we do not yet have the full quantification of the material damage, which my country will of course provide through a request for assistance from the fund, we believe that the european commission should be involved in restoring normalcy in these territories, complementing the enormous public effort of the states concerned, and give priority to repairing the serious damage caused in order to restore as soon as possible the living conditions and economic stability of these territories, because it represents a brake on economic activity and a risk to the natural environment, loss of agricultural production, the cessation of the activity of many companies, massive fall of trees, etc.
and so, in view of the characteristics and effects of this storm, i ask the commission to make these funds available as soon as possible, mainly for natural disasters with serious repercussions on life, the environment or the economy of a member state or of regions of the union.
restoration of infrastructure, provision of equipment for the energy and drinking water sectors and cleaning up the affected areas would be among the objectives of eligible operations.
that said, i would like to remind you that the competent authority will be able to have access at any time to the exact composition and that, as stated in the undertaking reached, any urgency relating to human or animal health or the environment will allow the buyer to be provided with accurate information on the composition of the food concerned, after weighing the legitimate interests of both manufacturers and buyers.
the efforts of our group - the socialist group - have gone in two directions: on the one hand, to introduce or reinforce major issues which are key to us, in a way that is transversal to the whole of foreign policy, such as the fight against climate change, the promotion of peace throughout the planet or a commitment to human development; on the other hand, to propose elements of rebalancing between the geographical priorities of the cfsp as they originally appeared in the text, if they did appear, or to introduce them as a new element, if they were absent.
the paris summit agreed to take work forward in four key areas: de-pollution of the mediterranean; maritime and land highways; civil protection; and the development of alternative energies through, for example, the mediterranean solar plan.
these include the search for peace and security in the region, the social and geopolitical impact of the economic crisis, environmental concerns, the management of migratory flows, and the role of women in our respective societies.
it was a conference on water; it was a ministerial conference on one of the key issues where there has to be cooperation across the mediterranean, which is going to create conflict, which is a matter of survival, which is also the target of possible large projects involving solar energy, involving water transfer, many things, in the mediterranean.
the results have been much more modest, particularly in the areas of human rights, democracy and the environment.
at the same time, we have to deal with the energy crisis.
and the energy crisis, the current economic crisis, can be an opportunity to move forward with very important projects, both for europe and for our neighbours to the south, such as the design of solar thermal plants and the creation of smart, clean grids that connect north africa, the middle east and europe in a big clean project that fights climate change and fights the economic crisis.
- mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, reconciling the proper maintenance of ecosystems with the sustainable exploitation of marine resources, preventing and controlling the impacts of human activities on the environment, improving knowledge, technological development and innovation are tasks which cannot be undertaken without the support of the european scientific community.
more investment in research and development, as well as in the collection and processing of reliable data, would result in a stronger and more sustainable common fisheries policy.
i will give you an example: to enrich the community's maritime strategy from a scientific point of view or to investigate the relationship between fishing and climate change.
in summary, the european union's maritime policy objective of achieving productive fisheries in a clean marine environment requires access for scientists working in this field to horizontal funding mechanisms in the seventh framework programme.
it has been found that such measures provide greater purchasing power for our citizens, improve the environment and productivity of smes and strengthen the formal economy.
the extension of reduced rates to children's diapers and disabled-adapted equipment, e-books, environmental tasks such as sewerage and recycling, all dwellings, places of worship and cultural and artistic heritage, catering services, gardening activities and personal care is welcome.
i therefore support the van den burg report and hope that political agreement will be reached next month to enable it to be implemented as soon as possible, pending the next energy efficiency package.
a simpler legislative environment without disproportionate burdens is essential.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
but the legislature is over, i am leaving parliament and i am sorry that i have not succeeded in making it compulsory to introduce the control systems which already exist and are patented to know when and how much waste from bilge tanks and fuel tanks has been illegally dumped at sea by a given ship.
i believe we owe the marine environment better attention and more stringent procedures to tackle as much pollution as we produce and that if we do not do so, it will affect our food chain and our lives and make us pay a high price for it.
written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by mr saïd el khadraoui, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 1999/62/ec on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures (com ((2008) 0436 - c6-0276/2008 - 2008/0147 (cod)) (a6-0066/2009) and - the report by mr georg jarzembowski, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the integration of environmental interests in the transport sector and the internalisation of external costs (2008/2240 (ini)) (a6-0055/2009).
mr president, we have also reached the end of a debate on a subject which i undertook, when i won the confidence of parliament, to bring to the attention of this house with the aim of not imposing a new tax on european citizens and the proof of the commission's intention not to impose a new tax is that the new eurovignette is optional and above all that the funds raised will not be allocated generically to the budget of the various member states but will be aimed at intervening in a particular area, namely pollution, the internalisation of external costs and the construction of roads and safer infrastructure.
a modulated congestion charge is more effective in combating climate change than a flat-rate co2 tax.
the commission proposal already authorizes a factor which multiplies the costs of pollution in these areas, the so-called correction factor for the mountains.
i would like to conclude by saying that the commission and parliament agree on one thing: the need to take legislative action on the problem of noise pollution in the railway sector.
the european commission has decided to tackle the internalisation of the external costs of road transport by allocating three new costs: air pollution, noise pollution and congestion.
this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is ill-timed and, far from achieving the expected objectives of sustainable transport, would be the death sentence for a large number of european small and mediumsized enterprises which employ thousands of people in the european union and contribute daily to the distribution of goods, ensuring that the products reach their final consumer, a consumer who will see how their products become more expensive as a result of the application of these taxes.
ladies and gentlemen, we need a competitive, sustainable and environmentally friendly transport system, without neglecting the road, because today it is the only way to get everywhere.
− mr president, firstly i would like to stress the importance that the commission attaches to the sustainability of the bluefin tuna stocks and fisheries, and also the importance of the european parliament in this process.
however, i am confident that our agreement to urgently adopt measures to eliminate overfishing and to ensure strict compliance with iccat measures can turn around the situation and bring the bluefin tuna stock to sustainable levels.
this year will clearly be a test of our ability to demonstrate our commitment to the sustainability of this endemic stock.
finally, we regret the council's inability to reach agreement on the 5 billion euro for energy interconnections and rural broadband.
these include, for example, the question of how we can create the right work environment for workers in order to keep them in their home countries and, also, how we address the very serious problem of the brain drain.
this is reflected not only in the water framework directive but also in initiatives such as the eu water initiative launched at the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg, which contains the reinforcement of the role of local actors among its objectives.
further support to this initiative will be considered in the framework of the africa-eu partnership on climate change.
therefore, public-public partnerships potentially constitute a very cost-effective approach in terms of promoting the relevant ‘good governance’ principle in the acp water sector, with potentially long-term and sustainable impacts on institutional and organisational change.
all this with the primary and overriding objective of defending the fundamental right to water and sanitation, but, of course, within a rigorous framework of respect for sustainable development, which in the european union is embodied in the water framework directive as a reference, and with the millennium development goals as a background in the field of development.
it says: that access to safe drinking water and sanitation is a human right that must be guaranteed by public authorities; that access to water is a powerful driver of development; that predictions indicate that climate change is capable of changing water availability and needs across the planet; that the sustainability of food production is directly linked to the efficient use of water.
in a multilateral framework it is very good to have civil society involved, in all its different forms, and also presents a great opportunity for them and for us to work on energy security.
energy security today is one of the important issues where we have a real win-win situation: we are highly interested and they are highly interested.
there have been tensions between argentina and uruguay, the alca project has failed, venezuela has left the andean community, there have been problems between brazil and bolivia over the nationalisation of energy resources, between argentina and bolivia for the same reason, between ecuador and colombia, between colombia and venezuela, between mexico and venezuela, etc.
this new step is an opportunity to further strengthen political dialogue and coordinate the positions of both sides at the global level, as well as the various multilateral forums and international institutions, through consultation mechanisms that allow joint positions to be adopted on specific issues of global scope such as security, the environment or socioeconomic issues.
so finding common solutions to the global economic and financial crisis, developing ambitious strategies for the success of the un climate change conference in copenhagen, developing a structured dialogue on immigration or working together to achieve the millennium development goals are some of the things that the annual summits between the european union and mexico can achieve, if this strategic partnership is enabled as we are proposing.
they also continue to work together on common challenges such as climate change - our main theme - the fight against drugs, where we are indeed very supportive of president calderón, who has a great fight to fight, and the sensitive and difficult issue of migration.
with brazil in particular, we have also begun to work on the question of renewable energies, such as biofuels, where brazil really has experience and which president lula himself shared with us during the portuguese presidency.
in environmental protection we share basic concerns and on this basis we must open a dialogue on issues such as climate change, water management, biodiversity and deforestation, and on the role that indigenous peoples should play in all of this.
in energy cooperation, the dialogue launched in 2007 has allowed us to make progress that we need to consolidate on issues such as sustainable biofuels, renewable energy, energy efficiency and low-carbon energy technology.
the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking and cooperation on energy are other areas of necessary joint cooperation, as is increased consultation in multilateral fora.
in today's complex and interconnected world - and i will finish - with multiple global challenges and threats, including climate change, it is very convenient for the european union and, of course, for the entire international community to cooperate in a spirit of shared responsibility with such relevant actors as mexico and brazil.
with the great country that is mexico we share values and objectives such as the development of democratic forms of government, the commitment to gender equality, the consolidation of the rule of law, equitable and sustainable development, and respect for human rights.
the call for multilateralism, especially in the international forums of the united nations, cooperation on environmental matters, sustainable development, forest and water management, education, as well as on issues relating to renewable energy and technological cooperation seems to us very appropriate, very positive.
i think that this is not convenient for us, we are not in favour of nuclear energy.
i believe that with energy efficiency, more renewable energy, we can do without energy that is highly harmful to humanity and therefore this leads us, despite the positive points, to abstain.
these include in particular the issue of climate change or the financial crisis.
for example, in december last year president sarkozy, president lula and president barroso spoke particularly about the question of the financial crisis, how to tackle it together, but also about the question of renewable energy, on which we are already working with brazil to develop a second generation of biofuels.
mr president, the international expo 2008 in zaragoza, the first single-theme exhibition on water and sustainable development and the first exhibition in which the european parliament participated on equal terms with the commission, closed on 14 september 2008. the three months of discussions with more than 2 000 experts and ngos resulted in the so-called zaragoza charter, which reflects the debate between mexico 2006 and istanbul.
this is the view of commissioner antonio tajani, who, like his predecessor jacques barrot, has been deeply involved in the great functional and environmental challenges facing the musel.
and it adapts to new challenges, such as the effects of globalisation, climate change or demographic changes.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to stress that the commission is aware of the problems that arise in the area of the protection of the environment.
today it is almost an astonishing feat to find five billion euros in a community budget to be used in the next two years to relaunch energy research, secure the energy connection or better communicate the rural areas of the union.
whole regions of the european union, like mine, asturias, are hoping to find a viable and sustainable way to use coal as a clean energy source.
it is key to achieving a technologically advanced economy that leads the fight against climate change and ensures high standards of efficiency, safety and quality in the mobility of people and goods.
and a guarantee system sufficient to give opel europe the autonomy it needs to continue to offer us ever safer, more innovative, more energy-efficient and more sustainable cars.
the single european sky reform is an important signal that will have repercussions for industry, will have repercussions for citizens, will reduce environmental pollution.
the rapid introduction of an air traffic network operator will not only facilitate the deployment of national systems but also serve as an example for all modes of transport, including the telecommunications and energy sectors.
- madam president, the committee on industry, research and energy welcomes the commission's proposal, which solves the shortcomings of the first package in terms of consistency, efficiency, cost reduction and improved management.
the main contributions from the committee on industry, research and energy relate to financing.
i would also like to thank the commission for its excellent cooperation and the invaluable help of the services of the committee on industry, research and energy and my group.
we need a new economic order and a system of global governance for the 21st century that addresses the causes and imbalances at the root of the crisis and promotes sustainable development through an open and supportive economy.
today's debts are tomorrow's taxes and the commission must ensure that national measures are linked to the lisbon strategy and do not jeopardise the sustainability of finance.
madam president, since we are talking about the budget, i think we must be prepared to negotiate the continuation of aid to coal, an essential indigenous source of energy, next year.
and the third, a new context, marked by global challenges like the economic crisis or climate change, and no longer just military challenges, as in the past.
the report identifies a number of global challenges on which the united states and the european union should seek common approaches, such as the economic crisis, effective multilateralism that integrates emerging actors, the millennium development goals, climate change, the promotion of human rights, etc.
and thirdly, to try to promote a new dialogue on the strategic aspects affecting global issues, such as the fight against poverty, food and energy security, the fight against climate change, etc.
the words 'reconstruction' and 'recovery' certainly deserve the utmost prominence in the face of the current crisis, in which we are moving towards a green economy where growth and environmental protection are not at odds but complement each other perfectly.
i am pleased to have heard strong support for the topics we chose for our first informal meeting with president obama, namely: firstly, energy security and climate change; secondly, economic cooperation; and, thirdly, cooperation on security and external relations.
in addition, turkmenistan is a key partner in the diversification of the eu’s energy relations and energy security.
we have two further important reasons for strengthening our relations with turkmenistan to protect our own interests: security and energy.
as we all know, central asia could play a very important role in energy security.
the european union is making every effort to complete the southern european gas corridor as part of a wider policy of diversifying energy sources and transit routes.
as a consequence of this ruling, all ship recycling yards will be closed within two weeks as they have not been authorised by the ministry of the environment.
i share your concerns about the serious risks this presents to human health and the environment.
the environment dg has already launched several studies and is working on assessing the impacts of the key elements of the convention.
we need to safeguard the existing requirements in terms of workers’ rights and environmental protection when transposing the imo convention.
and i would like to stress that we will, in particular, ensure that the 2006 waste shipment regulation is not undermined.
the first is paragraph 3 - which he has already mentioned - which says that ships, as a whole, must be considered as hazardous waste and, as a result, must fall within the scope of the basle convention.
finally, in paragraph 15, the commission is called upon to make clear that the state with jurisdiction over waste is the responsible state.
the important thing is to ensure consistency on the future convention on ship recycling and the basle convention on the transboundary control and disposal of hazardous waste, and all this taking into account not only the basle convention but all existing legislation.
- i voted in favour of the auken report because it clearly criticises the wild urbanism of the spanish state and points to the misuse of community funds in urban planning and the environment.
i want to make it clear that the spanish government is engaged in a practice that is systematically linked to abuses of citizens, environmental destruction and corruption on a large scale, and i believe that this competence must be immediately transferred to euskadi.
- having participated from the outset in the preparation of the auken report, which has attracted the support of spanish and european citizens, i have defended its content without reservation because it highlights the responsibility of all spanish administrations, from the government to the regional and local administrations, in the development of an economic model based on urban speculation, devastating for the environment, the economy and the social development of spain.
the report, which has withstood pressure from the pp and psoe, warns of the slowness of resolutions, both political and judicial, which has led to great impunity for administrations, and includes the declaration of a moratorium on urban plans that do not respect the criteria of environmental sustainability and social responsibility, allowing to analyze irregularities, to avoid a policy of fait accompli.
we are probably interdependent in trade and energy, or i should say we have become indispensable partners for each other.
this applies in particular to the energy sector, where we are seeking to adopt the principles of the energy charter: transparency, reciprocity and non-discrimination as the essential ones.
the gas crisis at the beginning of the year has undermined confidence in the reliability of our energy relations.
- mr president, for us and for europe, for the itre commission and for us in europe, it is clear that energy has become an instrument of foreign policy, an element of change that can generate conflict and can unite us, and that is precisely the issue we are dealing with today.
our constant with russia has been union; that is why i say that in this energy field, where europe is in deficit, we must warn russia that we must remain friends, but with clear rules of the game, as the gentlemen always had them and as we always have had them, now with written rules.
we cannot live in the permanent uncertainty that our citizens will be cut off from energy supplies, but russia must also understand that it cannot use energy as an instrument to deny the sovereignty of the surrounding states.
there is a de facto state of affairs, of peoples who have achieved their sovereignty, who are in full exercise of democracy, which we must safeguard and which russia has a duty to safeguard, as well as a duty to provide clear rules of the game for energy exchange and the union through energy.
many member states are also energy dependent on it and trade with it in a significant economic way.
for example, the use of energy resources as a weapon of pressure, including the cutting of supply, or the crisis in georgia last summer and the events that followed.
the consequences of unrestricted exploitation of their natural resources would be catastrophic not only for the immediate environment and the indigenous population, but for the world as a whole.
an international treaty is needed between all the parties involved, including, no doubt, the european union, to protect its unique environment, to ensure the full sustainability of all human activities and to regulate navigation in the newly accessible sea lanes on a multilateral basis.
i would like to mention a little the subject of energy efficiency, which has been the subject of many speeches.
we ask member states to describe their implementation intentions in their strategic reports to be drawn up by the end of 2009. of course, as things stand, it is up to the member states to define the criteria and eligible measures for energy efficiency.
but it is true that an energy efficiency directive is under consideration and, once that energy efficiency directive has been adopted, it will of course have to be applied.
on the other hand, i am happy to join all the members who have stressed how the research into energy efficiency in buildings has the dual advantage of creating jobs and then being able to prepare for the future and help us solve the problems of global warming.
the following is the joint debate on- the report by salvatore tatarella, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a community eco-label scheme (com ((2008) 0401 - c6-0279/2008 - 2008/0152 ((cod)) and- the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the voluntary participation by organisations in a community eco-management and audit scheme (emas) (com ((2008) 0402 - c6-0278/2008 - 2008/0154 ((cod)).
madam president, the commitment to sustainable production has the advantage that it benefits both the competitiveness of companies and the interests of consumers in terms of quality of life and individual commitment to the environment.
we must also bear in mind another fundamental fact: the eco-label must not reflect the general norm within sustainable production; the eco-label must reflect excellence within sustainable production, which must be increasingly the majority.
the challenge we face is to make our economy a green economy; the eco-label must therefore be the ultimate expression of this generalization of good practice in respect of the environment.
the textile sector is a good example of how we must not only make the approval procedures for new products, in this case new fibres, more flexible, but also strive to consolidate the eco-label, together with wider measures, so that the whole sector can move towards sustainability.
scientists tell us that we have long since exceeded the acceptable limits of sustainable fishing for this clearly endangered species.
- the spanish socialist delegation has defended the model of asset disaggregation of vertically integrated companies in both gas and electricity, based on the conviction that separating supply/generation companies from transport companies is tantamount to providing european consumers with a real choice and stimulating the necessary investments in this sector, making energy reach the entire eu without interruption.
however, i voted in favour of the internal market in gas and electricity because: (1) consumer interests have been placed at the heart of the review of the legislative package; (2) we have included the concept of energy poverty and asked member states to include measures to tackle energy poverty in national energy action plans and not only ensure the necessary supply of energy to the most vulnerable customers, but also ensure that they are not disconnected during critical periods; and (3) given that asset disaggregation will be a de facto reality within a few years due to the anti-trust procedures of the dg competition services, we have put the emphasis on the institutional architecture, strengthening the competences of the new european agency and the independence of the national regulatory bodies.
our common goal is to make road transport more efficient and sustainable.
mr president, the g20 has left a valuable message: prosperity is indivisible and only a shared and inclusive recovery is sustainable.
commission estimates based on recent studies suggest that additional public and private investment will need to increase to around €175 billion by 2020 to reduce emissions to a level compatible with the eu target.
developing countries should develop strategies and plans for the development of a low-carbon economy with the help of developed countries.
moreover, in the transition to a global carbon market, flexibility mechanisms, the clean development mechanism and joint implementation will continue to play an important role in financing emission reductions in developing and transition economies.
in this context, it will be important to strengthen environmental integrity, contribution to sustainable development and equitable geographical distribution.
it is also necessary to further expand the carbon market to provide clear signals on the carbon price.
this is one of the most cost-effective ways of reducing emissions, while providing a clear incentive for the transition to a low-carbon economy.
in addition, following the agreement of the eu on the climate and energy legislative package, the council also underlined the contribution of this package to the eu's efforts to secure funding for climate change mitigation and adaptation measures.
the council considers it important to focus more on financial mechanisms to combat climate change.
the council shall, in due time before the copenhagen conference, make public the approach of the european union to the different methods of financing mitigation and adaptation measures, to the promotion of new technologies and to the creation of an appropriate environment for the implementation of these plans.
as regards some other issues of financing the global climate change agreement, the eu has made it clear that it wants to take on the corresponding responsibility in this matter.
in this context, i would like to point out that the eu already made a voluntary commitment to reduce emissions by 20% in 2007, and a 30% commitment in the event of a successful global agreement, long before any other country in the world had even published any mitigation proposals.
the following is the report by mr magor imre csibi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-related products (recast) (com (2008) 0399 - c6-0277/2008 - 2008/0151 (cod)) (a6-0096/2009).
madam president, during the last five years, as a member of the european parliament and a member of the committee on petitions, i have examined hundreds and hundreds of petitions, complaints and questions on the environment, and i have seen very little cooperation from the national authorities, even a real rebellion, a state of rebellion by some member states against the implementation of the habitats directive and other environmental directives.
it takes so many years that in most cases, when an infringement procedure reaches the european court, we act in articulo mortis, and then the law, in the environment, in irreversible situations, is no longer useful.
although there is already international legislation to deal with this situation - the marpol convention 73/78 - there has been a clear lack of implementation and enforcement; in addition, it has been found that the existing civil liability regimes for pollution from ships are not sufficiently dissuasive.
the main innovation we introduce in this amendment, which will enable us to take a further step in the fight against environmental crime in the shipping sector, is the claim, made by this rapporteur from day one, that the repetition of minor discharges with water pollution can also constitute a crime.
i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who have helped me in this endeavour and who have been a support for the strength of the negotiations with the council and the commission, and i would like to thank the opinion rapporteurs from the legal affairs and environment committees for their contributions.
i am certainly grateful for the close cooperation of the rapporteurs from both the committee on legal affairs and the committee on the environment.
without wishing to waste either the time of parliament or of consumers and businesses, may i kindly inform you that tomorrow, together with commissioner reding, i will present the digital guide.
naturally, i would also like to thank all those who have taken part: the shadows, and in particular the secretariat of the committee on industry, research and energy, which i believe has played an absolutely fundamental role in bringing us to this point, and then the commissioner, the commission, because she has facilitated all the difficult negotiations of the trilogue at all times.
we must listen to the voice of the vast majority of europeans, especially young people who have grown up in a digital environment, and these people do not want to put doors on the field, do not want to put a heavy lock on the sharing of knowledge, culture and data on the internet.
we must not waste time, we must not be stuck in a position of blockade; we must look beyond the horizon of local, short-term interests and look beyond future generations.
we cannot practice the politics of the ostrich, we need to modernise our social model, precisely to improve it and to make it sustainable and fair.
the european council at the end of march 2009 proposed €3.98 billion for the energy sector and €1.02 billion for the rural development fund, all to create new broadband infrastructure in rural areas, improve existing infrastructure and respond to new challenges: climate change, renewable energy, biodiversity and restructuring of the dairy sector.
it would allow europe to deliver more effectively on the key challenges we face today in areas like climate change and energy security.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the draft regulation on the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemical substances and preparations (reach), as regards annex xvii thereto, by miroslav ouzký and guido sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0071/2009 - b6-0230/2009).
the commission fully supports the objective of the human health and environmental professions, by preventing all exposure to asbestos and by working towards a total ban on all uses of asbestos in all its forms.
directive 87/217/eec on the prevention and reduction of environmental pollution by asbestos provides for measures to control asbestos emissions during certain demolition, decontamination or disposal operations to ensure that these activities do not cause pollution by asbestos fibres or dust.
framework directive 2006/12/ec on waste and directive 1999/31/ec on the landfill of waste, together with the council decision on the criteria for the admission of waste to landfill, require member states to ensure the controlled disposal of asbestos fibres and equipment containing asbestos fibres.
member states must ensure that waste is recovered or disposed of without endangering human health and without requiring the use of processes or methods which could harm the environment.
waste containing asbestos is hazardous waste.
the basel convention and regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 on shipments of waste prohibit the export of asbestos waste to non-oecd countries.
in conclusion, and in the light of these elements, i can assure you that the commission will consider whether it is appropriate to propose further legislative measures concerning the controlled disposal of asbestos fibres and the decontamination or disposal of equipment containing asbestos fibres, which go beyond the existing legislation, both for waste management and for the protection of workers.
i said i wanted to thank mr sacconi, however, also on behalf of the committee on the environment, for putting this particularly important subject on the agenda, and mr bowis' speech and remarks showed how much this subject is felt by all citizens.
i think and hope that this debate has helped to dispel all doubts and concerns: the commission will report regularly to parliament on the application of the regulation and, it should be clear, will not compromise on the protection of workers, health and the environment.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, we have all followed with great interest and appreciation the programme of the swedish presidency, which has a clear economic and energy priority, because the priority of the european union is to contribute to the relaunch of the economy and the creation of jobs, to curb unemployment and to make the copenhagen meeting in december 2009 a success.
anything less is a waste of time and a prolongation of this embarrassment.
i therefore believe that it is necessary, also at european level, to work for safety by investigating and standardizing penalties for environmental crimes.
forest fires occur for one reason or another, but no one can deny that they are fuelled by climate change.
we must prioritize and act; and to act is, in this case, to change strategies, to mobilize resources, to increase them and to optimally crown preventive policies, demanding, where appropriate, responsibilities from the states which lack them, but assuming that this is not a problem of a few states in southern europe and that climate change does not affect only a few states, it affects everyone and is a common cause.
that is why one of the main tasks of this parliament is to ensure that the european union at the next copenhagen summit makes clear and firm commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as much as possible, because they are obviously at the root of fires, of their causes and these, in turn, of the causes of more climate change.
i would like to stress the disastrous impact of this type of catastrophe on the lives of the people affected, on their economy, employment, natural and cultural heritage, the environment and tourism.
in my region 22 000 hectares have been burned this summer, half of them in areas protected for their environmental interest.
mr president, mr commissioner, a fire is always a tragedy, a tragedy from the point of view of people, from the point of view of the environment, from the economic and social point of view.
that is why it is important that we move from debate to action, by making the management of the solidarity fund more flexible in the face of emergencies, and that we put into action that still pending european civil protection force, which is what can really make a difference in the future when we face these emergencies that recur every summer as a result of climate change and global warming.
the policy of trying to strengthen europe in this crisis, this triple food, financial and energy crisis, is not understood; it is not understood by everyone, because we are indeed doing wrong, in the wrong direction.
i am surprised, in this respect, that matters such as energy, which have been well dealt with during your mandate, are now, when you offer us your proposals for the next ... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, mr president of the commission, i would like to make a preliminary observation.
mr barroso, you consider yourself a champion of the environment, and i congratulate you on that.
and in this sense, we have a serious problem with regard to the environment.
- mr barroso, president of the european commission, is responsible for the current financial, economic, food and environmental crisis in which europe is plunged.
the social, economic and environmental damage caused by the fires to local economies, production and tourism is enormous and calls for immediate national and community intervention to help the citizens affected and to restore the previous environmental conditions.
why do we not guarantee the rural settlement of our milk producers - and farmers in general - which offers extremely positive economic, social and environmental externalities?
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the commission statement on energy security in connection with the nabucco and desertec projects.
certainly, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid a repetition of the situation of helplessness that many of our citizens suffered when russia decided to cut off gas supplies through ukraine, it is vital to diversify energy sources as much as possible and to diversify gas transport.
the security of supply is above all about energy saving and the use of renewable energy, and it is in this context that we consider cooperation with the countries of north africa in the development of renewable energy to be important, because it is linked to my call for increased supply from southern europe.
there is no doubt that the sun is an extraordinary source of energy, and converting that energy into energy for use by people is something that has had great development over the last twenty years, but that, without a doubt, still has a process to go through until it reaches technologically, especially in projects like the one we were talking about - desertec - its full potential and its full viability.
but it is striking that when we talk about energy efficiency, in this case, above all, about security of supply, and therefore about diversification of energy sources, we ignore a source of energy such as nuclear energy to such an extent.
this source of energy is systematically discriminated against because it does not correspond to what is happening in many countries of the european union, nor to the world trend, nor to the energy needs of mankind at the moment.
we must therefore turn this into the exact opposite, an attitude of integration of the different energy sources, where they all play their part, and we must not live in this parliament so openly with our backs turned to this reality.
mr president, given the external dependence of the eu on energy, securing supply is an issue that must always be present in the union's external action.
furthermore, all the forecasts agree that the world's energy demand will grow very much in the next 25 years.
that is why nabucco is of interest, because it will give access to gas from azerbaijan and iraq and also from turkmenistan, thus strengthening our energy relations with central asia, an increasingly important region.
in short, energy issues must be given priority in the euro-mediterranean partnership for the benefit of both parties.
ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon includes energy as a shared competence and states that the union's energy policy will have as one of its objectives the guarantee of security of energy supply.
it is a good stimulus to progress towards the creation of a common foreign policy on energy, which is becoming increasingly necessary and which is emphasized in the resolution we are adopting today.
finally, this is a difficult objective, as is shown by the fact that we still lack a genuine internal energy market in europe, in the union, because we do not even have the necessary interconnections.
the south stream and nabucco projects have economic, energy, historical and political implications of great importance, and we must deal with them with great intelligence, with great prudence and be attentive to the concerns and needs of all the countries concerned.
from this european parliament and at european level we will be sending a strong message of commitment to the sustainability and survival of freedom of expression in information pluralism in the 21st century.
for personal reasons, because back in 2002, when i was a member of the basque parliament, the basque parliament adopted a resolution in which it said that we considered it necessary to address the phenomenon of international capital movements in accordance with the social and economic impact on the planet as a whole, that we should introduce criteria and mechanisms to guarantee control mechanisms and contribution to human development, to overcoming inequalities between peoples and social sectors and to environmental balance, and that we had the obligation to create mechanisms to restrict speculative movements.
the first certainty, or the first common element, is that there is a great deal of convergence today in the view that emissions must be reduced and that clean energy must be developed.
those are realistic ways of tackling climate change.
madam president, the two most dramatic crises facing the world are poverty and the effects of climate change: two crises which will be even more interlinked in the future, two crises which are more devastating every day.
today, the effects of climate change are more severe, more intense than ever before.
we need to do more to combat climate change, but not with the resources we currently allocate to development aid, not with the resources we currently allocate to education or health.
the commission also welcomes the inclusion, in parliament’s first reading, of the amending letter requesting increased spending notably for palestine, climate change and accompanying measures in favour of acp countries.
at this stage, the commission has not yet identified all the sources of financing corresponding to the full amount for the energy projects required by the recovery plan in 2010. however, the commission will endeavour to identify all possible availabilities with a view to closing any outstanding gap in time for the november conciliation.
as regards research and the seventh framework programme, we have been cautious in asking that, since fisheries research no longer has its own line in the budget, at least the investment rate should not be reduced, since knowledge of the environment and marine species is the basis of all fisheries management decisions, and especially when one of our new objectives is the ecosystem approach applied to all the rules of the common fisheries policy.
but not only that, climate change, energy and fair trade rules must also be on the agenda.
that is why this house, this parliament, supports the creation of a transatlantic political council, which should in future include the energy council you want to set up at the next summit.
on climate, i agree with rebecca harms that europe is not doing enough.
the european union, as you know, only accounts for 13% of global emissions.
first of all, regarding climate change, let us be clear.
madam president, the relationship with russia is very important: it is a permanent member of the security council and a military power; its cooperation is necessary to deal with the nuclear challenge of iran, the problem of the middle east, disarmament, climate change, etc.
russia is also a european neighbour with which many of the member states of the union have important economic relations and a strong energy dependence; it is a country with which we have two regular annual summits (it is a good time, by the way, to assess the state of the relationship).
the first of these areas - for me - is the economic and energy sector: we need openness, clear rules, guarantees for investment, and russia must first join the wto.
the gas supply crisis of recent years should not be allowed to recur and the new agreement must incorporate the principles of the european energy charter, which, as has already been said, is the treaty from which moscow has unfortunately withdrawn.
mr president, first of all i want to acknowledge the efforts, and also the enthusiasm, that both the commission and the council and, of course, parliament have put into this whole programme of combating climate change for so long.
the agreement on deforestation, the agreement on aid to emerging and developing countries, but above all on technology transfer, and agreements also - which i think would be very interesting - for the promotion of programmes so that the industrial sectors which consume the most energy throughout the world can reach agreements on emissions, wherever they are, which will also benefit the competitiveness of our economies.
madam president, combating climate change also requires a radical change in energy production and consumption.
we need a new model that balances our three needs: security, sustainability and competitiveness.
i would highlight the agreement on the renewable energy directive and the recent agreements on two very important directives: the directive on efficiency in buildings and the directive on energy labelling.
they mean savings of €50 billion on oil and gas imports, one million more jobs in the renewables sector and the equivalent in energy efficiency by 2020. the eco-industry already represents more than three million jobs and green technologies are an increasing part of a sector with an annual turnover of more than eur 200 billion.
one, more obvious, is to avoid climate change, with concrete proposals for reducing emissions and with a commitment to finance, and which aims at a binding agreement, i mean, not a retail agreement.
and two latent aspirations: first, to start working sooner rather than later to have a common energy policy, as we once had a common agricultural policy, because it was necessary, and, of course, the aspiration, also included, to regain the citizens' confidence in politics and politicians, which we in europe do not have any shortage of.
i do not know whether the rulers of this multipolar world want to be held accountable in history for not being able to reach a binding agreement, but i, as a member of parliament, and i believe all the representatives of the peoples, cannot be held accountable in history for not having been able to reach in copenhagen the binding commitment we have with humanity to prevent climate change.
− first of all i think it is fair to welcome the fact that we are going to have a commissioner for climate action.
it is precisely because there is a lot to do and i want to give weight, to use your expression, to this function that i have decided and have announced to parliament the creation of the post of commissioner for climate action.
he or she will have to mainstream climate action, because climate action has to do with energy but also with the environment, research, agriculture and industry.
so this is a very important coordinating role for climate action, both internally and externally.
the commissioner for climate action will therefore have a very important role, externally and internally, to fulfil all our expectations for a strong climate policy in the european union.
climate change policy has often been raised outside the scientific knowledge of the directorate-general for research; and outside, for example, land use, which is interconnected with climate change.
and in this policy of coherence, my last point: it is not possible to talk about the economy and recovery without talking about opening up energy markets.
there are countries which do not have an energy market, such as spain in the case of gas.
it is natural that the environment commissioner should show a greater interest in environmental issues than the industry commissioner, who will show a greater interest in industrial development issues.
and we want to develop an advanced environmental policy, while at the same time ensuring the competitiveness of our companies.
and i think the proposals put forward by the commission ensure that there are appropriate solutions in case other countries do not subscribe to the same high levels of ambition we have in environmental protection.
we do not want to export european jobs to countries that do not have the same level of environmental requirements as we do.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
as i said in my introduction, we believe that this complex issue requires very broad and sustainable solutions that permeate the entire policy field.
while it is sad and regrettable that seafarers are being kidnapped who were, after all, just doing their jobs, it is also sad that there are those who 'take advantage of this situation of misgovernment not only in somalia but in the area' and go fishing illegally or dump pollutant waste in their waters.
madam president, commissioner, the world faces two great challenges, two long-term challenges: the fight against the effects of climate change and the fight against poverty and hunger in the world.
in addition, a policy of information to the european consumer is needed which emphasises the efforts made by community producers to comply with european union legislation on the environment, food safety and animal welfare, because community producers have to compete with products from third countries where much lower standards apply to such imports.
in the current context of economic and environmental crisis, we need more than ever a commitment from developed countries to articulate a new international forum for reflection, at the highest level, with the aim of consolidating water as a public good, sharing technologies and developing efficient, sustainable and economically viable water management systems.
furthermore, we have an additional level of protection through our ban on feeding swill or catering waste to animals throughout the eu.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the european union imposes the highest standards in the world on community producers in terms of food safety, health, animal welfare and the environment.
a key goal of the 12th eu-china summit, to be held on 30 november in nanjing, will precisely be to work together to ensure success for the copenhagen climate summit and to address eu-china relations, including human rights, the financial and economic crisis and other international issues.
madam president, madam commissioner, i am concerned that often the lack of coordination means that sustainability criteria do not apply to agriculture.
i want to ask two questions: first, in a process of desertification like we know in southern europe, with the tremendous impact of climate change, knowing that land use is the most important thing, why is it paying to uproot trees, olive trees or vineyards?
we have just signed a treaty, but we need a new spirit: either we stop thinking that every new euro spent in europe is a waste or we join the eurosceptics.
victims bring us feelings of solidarity, compassion, recognition, dignity, sustainable aid, remembrance, and of contempt and justice for the terrorists who caused so much pain and so much death.
my group has always rejected trade liberalisation and its devastating effects which are contributing to the current financial, economic, climate and food crises.
for these reasons, i voted against the parliament's resolution on the wto ministerial conference and, from my group, we proposed that a new mandate for negotiations in the wto, adapted to the current world situation, be insisted on with the aim of achieving a real reform of the international trading system aimed at adopting fair trade rules, respecting international agreements and national rules in the fields of social justice, the environment, food sovereignty and sustainable agriculture.
the development of the country, the development of agriculture, infrastructure and the commercial fabric urgently need a climate of peace and stability and, above all, to protect citizens and to tackle impunity and legal uncertainty that directly affects them.
- this budget does not help to solve the economic, social and environmental problems facing the eu, which have been aggravated by the crisis.
the eu budget should be used to give effective priority to convergence policies based on social progress, preserving and promoting the potential of each member state, sustainability in the use of natural resources and environmental protection, with a view to achieving genuine economic and social cohesion.