one conclusion is clear: counting on a mutually beneficial strategic alliance with russia as a reliable provider of energy is a strategic miscalculation.
this makes it all the more important for us to concentrate upon finding new energy sources.
simplifying the online environment would help to increase the activity of the european parliament elections.
the war on gas has brought energy issues to the fore, in particular the need for a common energy policy.
but this common energy policy cannot be shaped in brussels if the member states do not act in the common interest and conclude bilateral agreements on terms which are only to their advantage.
i encourage the eu to diversify its energy package to avoid its dependence on one single natural gas provider.
progress in the fields of energy, environment and transport is the fruit of this work.
children need to grow up in a safe environment for which parents have the primary responsibility.
cross-border cooperation should contribute to integrated sustainable development between neighbouring regions.
mr president, the international atomic energy agency’s latest report concludes that iran has produced enough low-enriched uranium to make an atomic bomb.
we understand the need for solidarity, but i don't think those who have already suffered in life can be punished with a harsh climate again, unless they choose to.
the lisbon european union summit in march 2000 set the community's strategic objectives for the next decade to achieve sustainable economic development, create more and better jobs and increase social cohesion.
only by using fully this strategy based on solidarity can we ensure jobs and the sustainability of the european economy.
energy and broadband projects and the decision to increase the support fund for the eastern european countries are a good sign.
confidence is not built by continuing conflicts with gas suppliers and the politicization of energy resources.
in its report, parliament also drew attention to the situation of indigenous peoples in the russian federation and called on the russian authorities to ensure the preservation and sustainable development of the culture and language of the indigenous peoples living on its territory.
this is where the 21st century school comes in, with a good social climate, the use of different pedagogical methods, openness and flexibility.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs who dealt with the energy package and to express special thanks to the rapporteur, mr morgan, who did a lot of important work on consumer protection issues.
i am particularly pleased that the new package also addresses the issue of energy poverty.
member states that have not yet done so, including my home country of estonia, should develop a national action plan to combat energy poverty in order to reduce the number of people suffering from energy poverty.
especially in the current economic climate, this is very necessary.
direct subsidies to uninsured consumers, as is done in the uk, is an important measure, but could also improve the energy efficiency of housing, which would be particularly effective in estonia.
i supported mrs ţicău's second report on the energy efficiency of buildings, which will make a major contribution to meeting the challenges of europe's energy supply and demand.
this means that it helps to save 20% of energy consumption through increased energy efficiency.
investments in energy efficiency are also helping to market europe's economy today, as they create almost as many jobs, perhaps even more, than investments in traditional infrastructure.
increasing energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way for the european union to achieve its co2 emissions reduction target, create jobs and reduce the eu's growing dependence on external energy suppliers.
the report by mr ulrich stockmann on the marco polo ii programme is worth supporting because it has the potential to reduce road congestion, improve the environmental performance of the transport system and promote the convergence of modes of transport.
we cannot expect a positive change in the environmental situation in the baltic sea by relying only on ad hoc projects.
by working together across borders and across sectors in a particular region, we can collectively and more effectively tackle common challenges such as pollution and environmental degradation, create new business and job opportunities, and improve transport connections.
the strategy aims to improve the environment in the baltic sea and to increase integration and competitiveness in the region.
the strategy focuses on four specific challenges: ensuring a sustainable environment, increasing welfare, increasing accessibility and attractiveness, and ensuring the safety and security of the area.
one of the main priorities is of course to tackle the environment.
there are very serious threats to the environment in the baltic sea, which in turn means that economic development is likely to be affected.
it is a very sensitive marine environment, exposed to various types of environmental impacts.
in particular, the over-fertilisation and algal blooms caused by the excess nutrients threaten the ecological balance of the baltic sea.
at the same time, the baltic sea is also affected by pollution from land-based sources, hazardous substances and the effects of climate change.
the urgent and serious environmental threats make the baltic sea a clear environmental priority and we hope to be able to adopt conclusions on this in december.
we deserve a cleaner baltic sea at the heart of an area that offers the prospect of sustainable economic development across borders, with the support of the whole of the eu.
by addressing the environment, the economy, energy and transport and safety and security issues, the strategy provides an integrated approach covering several policy areas while ensuring close interaction among the fields concerned.
second, just now, more than ever, the region needs better access to and security of energy supplies.
the eu and member states have to agree on providing alternative channels for energy deliveries.
first and foremost it comes down to creating a united energy system around the baltic sea.
otherwise, mr commissioner, we wish you good luck in creating the common energy policy still missing in the eu.
– this debate has become an additional proof of how badly the eu needs a united energy policy.
their efforts have not only political and moral but also practical value because as representatives of the citizens they can speed up the creation of the common energy policy.
the commission should provide not only political and legal but also financial assistance to companies which are engaged in efforts to diversify our energy supplies.
to really advance towards genuine energy solidarity, the member states should start to inform each other and the commission on their agreements with third partners.
ambitious climate action would help to address the current economic crisis through the creation of new jobs and increased economic activity.
the international energy agency also considers the copenhagen agreement to be necessary to redirect investment delayed by the crisis to investments in the environmentally sound energy sector.
we need a comprehensive energy saving programme and an ambitious and long-term approach to renewable energy.
we need not only a common foreign and security policy, with an external service, but also a common energy policy.
if we want to avoid typical duplication and possible waste of resources, we must guarantee that the allocation and use of budgetary resources is under the control of the european parliament.
with the lisbon treaty in force, the eu needs, more than ever, efficient common foreign security and energy policies which are based on solidarity.
now, looking at russia, russia will have a very good opportunity next week to show its sincere desire to cooperate with us, whether in areas such as energy security or the preparation of a new framework agreement between the european union and russia or, for example, russian behaviour or thinking towards the wto.
but the very important issue that russia can demonstrate to work with us is certainly climate change cooperation and agreement.
it is now up to the council to start vigorous common foreign security and energy policies that could become truly credible for our partners.
one of the most pressing tasks will be completion of the single energy market, developing all-european energy-supply networks and storage facilities, as well as implementing an energy solidarity clause.
therefore, temporary measures by the eu, like additional lending facilities to support smes and energy and infrastructure projects are clearly needed.
estonia, latvia and lithuania need a rail link to europe for both economic reasons and environmental sustainability, as rail transport allows for the transport of larger volumes of goods with less pollution.
the economic recovery plan approved by the european council in march 2009 provides for €5 billion of unused eu budget resources in 2009 and 2010 to invest in energy interconnection and broadband development projects.
another positive aspect of this resolution was that we were able to find the missing part of the economic recovery plan for energy projects, and later confirmed this in the budget.