nevertheless, feedback from industry shows that the legislation is coherent and enables the eu-wide objectives set for it to improve and protect the state of the environment and public health.
we have just adopted the energy and climate package, but now, in the face of the crisis, we should have a wider energy conference with our partners.
both the eu and russia are seeking to build energy transmission pipelines to new regions eu outside russia and russia outside the former soviet republics.
i would, however, consider it particularly important to include the energy charter in the future pca.
the eu must build a common market for electricity and gas to ensure its citizens' access to energy.
the mediation in the gas war between russia and ukraine provides the eu with a good opportunity to require the parties to comply with rules of the game compatible with a common energy market within the union.
but solidarity must not only be demanded in the name of gazprom and the anti-russian policy, but also in the fight against energy poverty in general.
energy must also be made available to the poor for electricity and heat.
the great problem with the european energy strategy is that it is not being built from scratch, but that each country has its own geographical, historical and energy economic roots.
our group, like mr harms, also recalls the problems known to exist in the use of nuclear energy.
as co2 emissions decrease on one side, plutonium increases on the other.
our energy grid was built for the needs of the cold war and the political conditions of the cold war.
as the demand for energy has increased dramatically with the rapid development of the economy, so have the price, the supply and the environmental problems.
that is why it is important that we involve the united states and the developing countries in the joint energy process.
when energy solutions are global, we need european energy diplomacy, and i understand that the energy commissioner has done quite a lot of work on this in the context of this latest energy crisis.
we need energy diplomacy simply because these are such big issues that wars have been fought over them before and will be fought over them in the future.
it is also clear that we need the widest possible 'energy mix', that is, the widest possible variety of energy sources, because this will stabilise the energy situation and the diversity of each nation and of europe will be fully respected.
for this we need what i believe is the single most important thing that should be addressed today: intelligence for energy.
without intelligent technology, people and businesses will not understand the importance of energy consumption.
wherever there is human activity, there must be intelligence to direct the use of energy.
the social dimension, energy poverty and employment, are also linked to what we have just said.
as the report says, i believe it is very important that the union commits itself to common, long-term objectives in its energy strategy.
energy saving measures are the absolute key to radically reducing energy consumption.
in order to ensure europe's energy security, the union must contribute to the creation of a common transmission network and a common energy market and to better coordination.
the report places too much emphasis on nuclear power as one of the major energy challenges for europe's future.
the report is not ambitious enough in relation to renewable energy sources.
a europe that is building towards competitive and sustainable growth should aim to increase the share of renewable energy to 80% by 2050. many studies - including the erene studies by the german aerospace centre and the heinrich böll stiftung - show that the efficient use of clean, new forms of energy would be technically and economically feasible.
mr president,the debate on aviation is often skewed: there is a one-sided focus on the emissions problem of aviation, but no willingness to see the potential of aviation.
from a climate protection perspective, although smaller aircraft are not included in the future greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme, the industry is developing a voluntary carbon sequestration mechanism.
the community should be encouraged to do more research into new types of aircraft, more energy-efficient and more environmentally friendly.
mr president, the interim committee on climate change, set up in spring 2007 on the initiative of the social democrats, is bearing good fruit today.
the outcome of the intergroup consultations and discussions is an ambitious long-term action plan to mitigate climate change.
many were sceptical about whether the committee on climate change would add value to parliament's work.
i am sure that the very existence of the committee and its work in particular also made it possible to pass the climate package in an intensive and rapid manner last december.
i also strongly support the appeal by the committee chairman, mr guido saccon, that the post-election parliament should take up this matter and organise the handling of climate change issues in parliament in the most rigorous way possible.
the european union has long been convinced that we need to act to combat climate change.
the climate fund now proposed, which will be funded by the auctioning of emissions trading revenues, is a significant initiative and i hope it will continue well into the future.
now, our biggest challenge is to get the next international climate agreement.
its two most difficult issues are the emission reduction targets of different countries and how the developed countries contribute to the financing of climate investments in developing countries.
in both these areas, the eu must raise its ambition, although we can take pride in the fact that we have always been at the forefront of global climate protection.
the 30% reduction by 2020 is not enough in the light of the latest research, and emissions reduction targets need to be tightened up.
as regards the financing of climate action by developing countries, i regret that the commission's recent communication still remained too general and did not provide sufficiently concrete models.
in various contexts, including the debate on the climate package, parliament has shown its willingness to give substantial support to emission reductions in developing countries.
climate protection is feasible, but action must be swift and consistent.
in addition, we face a deepening economic crisis, environmental problems and the challenges of climate change that cannot be solved by military force.
projects aimed at developing cooperation in the fields of transport, technology and energy, as well as scientific cooperation and dialogue between ngos, are essential for the social functioning of developing countries.
mr president, the ippc directive has been actively prepared over the last year and, although the final form of the directive will have enormous implications for eu industry and citizens, it has still been left behind in the climate and energy package.
this is a pity, because the economic impact of the directive, combined with the measures already decided in the context of the climate package, is considerable.
they should therefore be proportionate to the climate and environmental benefits of the directive.
we must be able to cut the current bureaucracy and the costs of action, although i am disappointed that the report by the committee on the environment does not achieve that.
the permitting authorities should be given greater freedom to consider the emission limit values of existing installations, taking into account the age and technical level of the installation, the environmental impact and state of the environment and the cost of the improvement measures.
the restrictions imposed on these new permits will be costly without any substantial environmental benefits.
in practice, this would reduce the level of environmental protection.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy.
the crisis is also an opportunity to push economic growth in a completely new direction, based on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
in this way, while creating jobs and innovation, we are also responding to the challenges of climate change.
like energy, water is becoming more and more a political issue, and there will be great struggles over its availability.
it was therefore important to achieve a common line between the three largest political groups so that the health, environmental, commercial and social aspects would be covered in such a way that an agreement with the council was possible.
- the madam president, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr blokland, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work on this proposal for a recast of the regulation on the protection of the ozone layer.
the policy of protecting the stratospheric ozone layer has been recognised as a very great success.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the ozone layer is not depleted.
the reduction of these substances, in addition to protecting the ozone layer, has a particularly positive effect on the climate.
this is because these substances have a global warming potential as much as 14,000 times that of co2!
without the montreal protocol and without even more ambitious community regulation, global greenhouse gas emissions would be perhaps as much as 50% higher than they are today.
thanks to these international efforts, scientists now estimate that the ozone layer can be fully restored between 2050 and 2075. however, in order to make this possible, certain problems still remain and must be overcome.
the commission proposal aims both at simplifying the community regulation and reducing bureaucratic obstacles, and at adapting the regulation to new scientific developments and future challenges, in order to ensure the restoration of the ozone layer.
the compromise agreement reached maintains the architecture of the commission proposal while also including the specific measures needed to address the remaining issues for the complete elimination or reduction of the use of ozone depleting substances.
it reinforces trade measures against the illicit use and trafficking of ozone depleting substances in the european union and will help to avoid environmental dumping in developing countries.
the benefits, both in restoring the ozone layer and in reducing greenhouse gases, will be significant.
i would like to thank the european parliament again for its important contribution to keeping the environmental objective of our proposal intact and to reaching agreement at first reading.
for the ppe-de group mr president, the regulation under discussion is a natural extension and an important part of the montreal protocol, which obliges its 191 signatory states to actively phase out substances that deplete the ozone layer.
the montreal protocol has been considered one of the most successful international environmental agreements.
the consumption of ozone depleting substances has been reduced by 95% compared to the reference level.
in addition, over the past 20 years, the equivalent of more than 100 billion tons of carbon dioxide has been avoided.
the regulation under discussion will therefore not only contribute to the restoration of the ozone layer but also play an important role in the fight against climate change.
the compromise of the first reading, although democratically challenging, makes sense in a re-modelling of this kind, and the fact that it is reached is already a matter of the environment.
the original protocol focused on the protection of the ozone layer by limiting mainly cfcs and quickly tightened the target to near zero.
in this context, cfcs were replaced by, among others, hcfcs, which were much less hazardous to the ozone layer.
but as is often the case in solving environmental problems, the problem has moved on to another area.
some of them are over a thousand times more potent heaters than carbon dioxide.
it doesn't reduce global emissions, and it doesn't even reduce carbon intensity.
climate change is a second-rate environmental problem.
whereas ozone depletion was a problem caused by by-products of industrial or energy production, the cause of climate change is a factor that sustains the entire world economy and production.
therefore, climate change must be seen primarily as a problem of the productive economy.
the focus of solutions must shift from limiting emissions to a comprehensive reform of energy and material production methods.
it is important that the eu continues to be a leader in the phase-out of ozone depleting substances, even though this issue is no longer in the headlines.
many of these substances are potent greenhouse gases, but they are still excluded from the kyoto protocol.
it is important that we also remember to take care of this and continue to move towards the phase-out of high-intensity greenhouse gases and set an example for other countries, including developing countries.
mr president, the best way to improve europe's energy security is to increase energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
these investments must be made in all member states and they must start immediately, otherwise we will not be able to meet the objectives of the climate package we have ourselves adopted.
investing in energy efficiency and renewable energy will create, as has been said here on several occasions, new sustainable jobs, but it will also lay the foundations for a low-carbon economy.
all in all, all the remedies for the economic crisis must be aimed at keeping global warming below the critical threshold.
it is imperative that the eu set up networks of communication to keep a strong dialogue with the united states on many key issues, like the conflict in the middle east, the economic crisis and climate change.
we also have common challenges in environmental matters, and through transatlantic relations we can face together the challenges and problems which are currently acute throughout the world.
in order to provide a good and sustainable care for immigrant children, we need a comprehensive approach, we also need specific investments and additional resources for teacher training and the whole educational process.
its criteria are tightened up as knowledge, skills and technology develop and we produce ever better products for the environment.
the second key point is that the label is only given to the best products for the environment.
the derogation may be granted only under strict criteria if there is no alternative in the product group concerned or if such a substance with adverse health effects is required for a product with significantly lower overall environmental impact than other products in the same product group.
if and when the eco-label is extended to food, for example fish, in the future, it is important that the criteria cover not only the way the food is produced but also other environmental impacts, such as transport.
the debate on the dynamics of the criteria, which is somewhat similar to that on the eco-label, has also been taking place on energy labelling.
i think it is very important that both the eco-label and the energy label follow the same principle, that is to say that the criteria are tightened up as our knowledge and skills and technology improve.
for example, in local food, the indication of indigenousness is the best environmental signal.
smart meters, the energy system must be functional, it must be open and there must be real competition.
energy poverty has become a major issue.
the price of energy is rising, it is a costly commodity, and that is why the rights of the people must be protected.
that is why energy is being made a public service in this legislative package, which shows from the point of view of my own group - the social democrats - that we are defending the interests of consumers and thus making the market as transparent as possible.
(applause) i would like to thank the
on behalf of the pse group mr president, the report on the prohibition of illegal logging, which was adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment, is balanced.
illegal logging is a major cause of global deforestation, which, as noted here, is responsible for 20 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions and is a major cause of biodiversity loss.
in addition to environmental problems, illegal logging weakens the competitiveness of legal operators in the forestry sector and causes significant revenue losses for governments.
it is very important to pay attention to the fact that we are in all respects, in transport and elsewhere, energy-friendly, energy-saving and efficient.
in the manufacture of tyres, energy efficiency must not be allowed to override safety, that is to say, in order to ensure and increase energy efficiency, we must ensure that safety is not compromised in any way, because it is precisely on motorways, on small roads, everywhere, that safety must be the first and foremost objective when we develop european transport.
illegal logging is a problem that needs to be tackled effectively, not only for climate reasons but for environmental and social aspects as well.
the report from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) has lost its focus and has expanded the scope and duties beyond the original purpose.
but the envi report provides for costly labelling, additional sustainability requirements, extends the definition of legality out of reach and places the burden of due diligence on all operators within the internal market.
all the studies that have analyzed the cost of climate protection show that by saving energy, we cut emissions faster and cheaper.
by setting energy efficiency standards for equipment and products, we save significant amounts of energy without the need for citizens to go to the trouble of doing so.
buildings are estimated to account for 36% of eu greenhouse gas emissions.
all the studies i've seen show that improving the energy efficiency of buildings is one of the most cost-effective ways to protect the climate.
we are now extending the scope of the ecodesign directive to include energy requirements for windows, walls and insulation in buildings, for example.
this directive will help us considerably to achieve the 20% energy saving target.
another important means is energy labelling of equipment.
i am pleased that this week the committee on industry, research and energy in the house took a strong stand in favour of maintaining the familiar scale from a to g and updating the criteria as technology evolves.
however, i now turn to another detail which is important for the protection of biodiversity and small-scale nature tourism in my own country.
i am very pleased that we have found in this legislation a solution that protects human health and safety, but also small-scale tourism and the use of this means to protect biodiversity.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal.
the itre committee has supported clear, illustrative energy labelling for consumers, which i want to maintain and which the committee supports.
it is important that the consumer can always rely on the fact that the category a appliance corresponds at all times to the best technology, the most energy-efficient technology available on the market.
the eu energy label has been a success, having already removed the most energy-intensive appliances from the market and has been followed in brazil, china, argentina, iran, israel and south africa, among others.
the rescue money is needed urgently and i think the priorities chosen by the commission to support energy and rural areas - in particular the development of broadband networks - are welcome.
the emphasis on energy auditing is particularly regrettable: the commission's original idea of not supporting only electricity lines, carbon capture and storage (ccs) and offshore wind projects has changed along the way.
the excessive emphasis on carbon capture and storage, on the other hand, is unfathomable, especially when it is promised significant funding from emissions trading revenues.
in addition to wind power, other renewable energy projects should have had an equal right to apply for additional recovery funds.
instead of investing in the uncertain ccs technology, the emphasis should be on renewable energy sources.
the package included a statement that any unused funds could be directed to projects promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
in the commission's original plans, funds would have been earmarked for energy efficiency rather than for possible cuts.
for example, researchers have found that carbon nanotubes have health effects very similar to those of asbestos.
prime minister reinfeldt, you were right about the climate crisis.
we know that the technology we need for the next few decades is available, and at a reasonable price, but the hard part is that climate protection is an unprecedented challenge to humanity's ability to cooperate.
the european union must now have the courage to propose not just its own emissions reductions but a burden-sharing principle whereby all industrialized countries implement the ipcc emission reductions.
it has been argued that climate change is causing an increase in forest fires and that europe too must prepare for longer forest fire seasons instead of the normal summer-september period.
environmental scientists have found that the main explanation for forest fires in the eu, australia and california is socioeconomic.
a direct link to climate change cannot yet be demonstrated.
mr president, natural conditions will change with climate change, that is a fact.
but that does not explain the origin of environmental disasters, especially if the same phenomena are repeated every few years, for we may require better preparation.
adapting to a changing environment is one thing, but adapting to bad practices and unpreparedness is another.
mr president, the increase in floods is largely due to climate change, and the best way to prevent it is to get a proper agreement at the copenhagen meeting.
the recently published final conclusions of the commission set up by president sarkozy recommend a shift from a gdp-based measure of wealth to new types of measurement that take account in particular of the capacity of economic activity in society to safeguard the well-being of citizens and the sustainability of the environment.
i hope that sweden will give greater concrete expression to the protection of the marine environment, above all in the fields of agriculture and shipping.
the baltic sea is one of the most polluted seas in the world, and the biggest environmental problem is pollution.
this strategy has a strong environmental dimension, and rightly so, because the environmental problems of the baltic sea are truly enormous: overfishing, the loss of biodiversity, st petersburg's waste water, the kaliningrad problem and so on.
in addition to the fact that the baltic sea issue has a strong environmental dimension, i also see a strong regional policy impact.
the way in which we link environmental technology expertise, inland water issues and its considerable impact on transport policy to this strategy will also have a strong impact on inland areas.
the second thing we need if we want to save the environment of the baltic sea is that we have to engage russia strongly in this.
it is appropriate that we should spend a lot of time preparing the maritime strategy now; there is no time to waste.
the central objective of the baltic sea strategy and action programme, namely to improve the region's competitiveness and environmental performance, must be taken seriously, both in terms of the funding allocated to it and the measures to be implemented.
the environmental impact of projects such as this will be assessed by a legally binding procedure in accordance with the baltic sea strategy, which means that the matter cannot be avoided by a simple appeal.
it is therefore necessary to require that venj ratifies the espoo convention on the assessment of transboundary environmental impacts, which it signed in 1991, and that the finnish government make the issue of a permit for the construction of the pipeline a condition of its ratification.
- mr president, in the debate on monday on the summer 2009 forest fires, i said that natural conditions will change with climate change; that is an undeniable fact.
but it does not explain the origin of environmental disasters, especially if the same phenomena occur every few years.
our political environment must not be one in which we turn a blind eye to the facts.
climate change has been cited as one of the reasons for the increase in forest fires, and it is true that europe too must prepare for longer forest fire seasons instead of the normal summer-september period.
but the problem of fires is not the result of the changing nature of the environment.
adapting to a changing environment is one thing, but adapting to bad practices and unpreparedness is another.
the sustainability of dairy farmers is now seriously threatened.
the funding needed to combat and adapt to climate change is an additional responsibility that the developed world cannot afford to ignore.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the best way for us to help break the deadlock in the climate negotiations is for the eu summit next week to make an offer on climate finance for developing countries.
the committee on the environment yesterday voted in favour of a €30 billion eu contribution.
if we are honest, we have to acknowledge our historical responsibility for climate change and that our per capita emissions are still many times higher than, say, china and india.
mr president, the climate mafia, with the help of bona fide green policies, is transferring several hundred million euros of tax money from developed countries to highly profitable transnational corporations and developing country state enterprises in the form of the type of climate tax that is being driven now.
finland and the eu must rescue their steel, timber and forestry industries by requiring a specific emissions system instead of the current percentage targets and emissions trading for the copenhagen decision to meet the climate targets for climate products.
first, the fact that our climate efforts have so far been of no use.
the strategy has proved ineffective, as emissions have increased both in absolute and relative terms.
contrary to expectations, global carbon intensity has only increased at the same time that there has been a real international effort.
in countries that have ratified the agreement, emissions per tonne of production have not been reduced any more than in countries that have not ratified the kyoto protocol.
even though emissions have increased more than predicted, temperature now does not logically follow the increase in emissions.
so this information that is confusing the public at large does not dismiss the concern about climate change, but it does say that we need more research.
it's not just looking at coal, it's looking at a comprehensive climate policy.
the world can no longer afford a bad climate agreement.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat climate change, including the introduction of a new energy tax.
the resulting carbon leakage may even lead to an increase in global emissions as local emissions decrease.
in order to do that, we need a strong commitment to decarbonisation and to technologies that reduce emissions.
we cannot create loopholes; the eu emissions trading system is the model from the very beginning.
mr president, a just transition to a low-carbon world is very important and the functioning of the political system is very important, because the market never cares about justice.
i think that climate policy must also emphasise income sharing effects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, new research on the progress of climate change is emerging every day and shows that it is progressing faster than previous estimates.
to preserve the earth as it is adapted to life, we should have a carbon-neutral economy by 2050. in the light of these studies, the eu's climate targets cannot be called too ambitious.
yet time is still being spent debating whether or not we have a 100 percent certainty about human-induced climate change.
one of the biggest issues for the rest of the year is the eu's willingness to work with determination to ensure that the copenhagen agreement is climate-sensitive.
in the council of europe we have the problem that russia has not yet ratified protocol no 14, which would make the work of the court of human rights more effective, and we also want russia to join the espoo convention on the assessment of the environmental impact of international projects in the baltic sea region.
the importance of the meeting is further underscored by the fact that the publicity game has escalated to the point of vilifying climate scientists as the meeting approaches.
but there is no time to lose, global emissions must be reversed in less than ten years.
the agreement must include long-term emission targets, but even more importantly, it must agree on emission limits for 2020. the reductions in emissions from industrialized countries must be closer to the 40% threshold than the 25% threshold.
as the committee on the environment has stated, the eu's financial contribution should be around eur 30 billion per year by 2020. as minister carlgren has also stated, the recession has made emissions reductions cheaper.
for those who would like to question the whole climate protection thing, i want to remind you that the planet is not waiting.
you can't say to the planet, "please give us a few more years, we're in recession", or "climate change sceptics made us hesitate".
climate change proceeds according to the laws of physics and chemistry, and we are responsible for our decisions and also for our omissions.
only in a healthy economy can environmental actions be possible.
only if the economy is healthy can we invest in the environment.
we need to introduce a system of specific emissions, like in cars, so that we can measure what has happened and draw conclusions from that.
if we create a system where environmental dumping from developing and less developed countries is not possible, then we will be able to secure jobs and better products in the future.
mr president, last week it was leaked that the commission has been quietly preparing an initiative with a few member states to move immediately to a 30% cut in emissions.
it has been argued that a 30% cut could keep the carbon price at a reasonable level, i.e.
the big power companies, who lobby hard, are in favor of a plan that would boost the profits of listed power companies and at the same time remove carbon leakage protection from european industry.
however, i would remind the commission that under the emissions trading directive the eu's 20% emission reduction target will only change to 30% once other industrialized countries have comparable reduction efforts, comparable reduction measures, and developed developing countries also have some obligations.
the global climate legal agreement contains precise texts on hundreds of issues, the main themes of which include quantitative emission reduction commitments for developed countries up to 2020 and beyond, specific emissions targets for developing countries up to 2020 and beyond, financial assistance from developed countries to developing countries, technology development and transfer, sinks and their calculation rules.
but above all, it is only through a balanced reduction of emissions that the overall reduction of emissions is guaranteed, and not simply by moving from one place to another, increasing the overall emissions.
otherwise, verheugen's evil prediction would come true, that we would only bring pollution and unemployment here.
mr president, the debate here has been very interesting and it seems that the european parliament is very strongly committed to supporting the copenhagen climate conference.
i would also like to stress the importance of forestry policy and forests, since forests are carbon sinks that store carbon dioxide.
it is now time to start a concrete discussion on how the cost of climate change mitigation will be paid.
it will not happen... (the president interrupted)
it is very good, mr president, that on the same day as we are discussing the copenhagen climate conference resolution, food security and hunger are also brought up, because these two issues are very closely linked.
some speakers have already raised the problem of how we have also partly caused more problems through climate policy.
tobacco smoke is an environmental pollutant that contains several hundred compounds that are harmful to health.
microfinance can only function as part of such a whole, where the situation of new small entrepreneurs and their whole environment is such that they have a real chance of continuing their activities successfully and profitably.