the progress made in protecting health and the environment is very significant; in the long term, the most dangerous substances will be replaced by less harmful ones.
the compromise text also takes account of the issue of bees and their indispensable role in the ecosystem.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment.
finally, and most importantly, as my colleagues have pointed out, we are encouraging the manufacturers of pesticides to develop new products which are effective and respectful of human health and the environment.
these texts recognise and will further emphasise the role of integrated production in a sound and sustainable agriculture.
the two texts we have adopted manage to strike a balance between protecting health and the environment and ensuring that farmers have access to products.
we now know that while plant protection products have greatly increased agricultural production, they also have, for some of them, a very negative impact on health and the environment.
beyond this essential health issue, it is also the impact on the environment that must be measured.
protection of the environment and biodiversity, including the problem of bees, protection of water, protection of our soils, of course.
the farmer too must be protected, the farmer who is the first to be affected by the use of these pesticides, who will be pleased to see the harmonization of regulations, the simplification of procedures, who will be able to continue to use certain substances which he needs for agriculture, but an agriculture which we want to be sustainable today.
pesticides are obviously dangerous, but it is the way they are used that determines whether they pose a risk to the professional, the consumer and the environment.
it is true, as the commission says, that pesticides are largely a matter for the common agricultural policy, but it is also true that such a directive must aim to have the environment and public health as its broad legal basis.
it is essential that this directive aims at a strong reduction in the use of chemical pesticides, in particular by promoting sustainable alternatives such as organic farming and biopesticides.
it takes account of the interests of farmers and the need to protect the environment, including protected areas.
i would remind you that the producers of acidic fruit and vegetables in my region of normandy have been at the forefront of agro-environmental issues for several years.
you have just told us that, for obvious reasons, namely the importance of urban transport in transport and the objectives of the european climate plan, the european union cannot disregard urban transport.
indeed, the increase in the world's population, global warming, uncontrolled production of agrofuels, and aggressive speculation are all factors that increase tensions in agricultural markets.
i believe that the cap, corrected for its excesses and imperfections, could become an example of an effective, equitable and responsible policy, responding to the food challenge, combining both economic, social and environmental aspects.
while i welcome the fact that this text stresses the crucial role of the cap in achieving the objective of food security, i regret that the rapporteur advocates a greater market orientation of agricultural policy and blames environmental protection initiatives for a reduction in agricultural production in europe.
i think that this is a completely wrong statement and i think that it is necessary to address the problem of climate change in order to develop new models for producing more and better.
this development must be sustainable and based on local agriculture as a priority.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
madam president, sustainable fisheries management does indeed involve monitoring fishing effort, but it also requires taking account of the effort of fishermen.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i am pleased to note that the czech presidency, in close liaison with the european commission, has acted swiftly and unitedly in the energy conflict between kiev and moscow.
by including energy among its three major priorities, the czech presidency had identified one of europe's major challenges for the coming years, namely our energy independence and the necessary diversification of our energy resources.
we cannot tolerate the member states of the union being held hostage in this conflict, and it demonstrates once again the urgent need to agree on a european energy policy.
we must therefore seriously consider ways of reducing our dependence and take action to achieve an energy mix.
as you all know, nuclear energy and human rights issues severely limit the scope of our activities in iran.
i sincerely believe that a free and accountable press is a necessary precondition for democracy and the rule of law, which are integral to sustainable development.
the european union must maintain the political will to create a coherent competitive environment for its businesses, by remaining vigilant and taking concrete and effective action when necessary.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on: the commission statement on the consequences of the recent gas crisis, the report by anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the second strategic analysis of energy policy (2008/2239 (ini)) (a6-0013/2009), and the oral question to the commission on the challenge of energy efficiency and information and communication technologies, by vladimir remek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0115/2008 b6-0003/2009).
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our discussions on this second strategic energy analysis were of course marked by the new gas supply crisis between russia and ukraine.
the crisis has revealed for the third time the need for a common energy policy.
the climate constraint will become more severe, the security of supply of the european union is threatened by increasingly serious and frequent crises and the competitiveness of the european union may be undermined.
this implies the need to think differently about energy consumption and use in the european union, to think differently about our energy resources and to enable us to exploit the huge pool of jobs in the energy sector, jobs which are so crucial in the context of the economic crisis we are going through.
the short term is to affirm the vision of three times 20 by 2020 of the energy-climate package and to transform it into a european energy policy.
it is a combined action at several levels: global, european, national and local, which means that the first priority we have indicated is of course energy saving, energy efficiency and the development of renewable energies, because in this area the potential of the european union is considerable.
in particular, the 20% energy efficiency target should be made binding.
we must develop these energy interdependence relations, particularly with russia and the mediterranean area.
in this respect, let us increase trade with japan and the united states - particularly california - but let us not be fooled, our relations with these energy-consuming countries are based both on cooperation and also on competition, particularly in energy technologies.
the aim is to plan the future of energy in the european union.
we should be able to write the roadmaps for the supply of the european union in 2050 on the basis of scenarios for the period from, say, 2010 to 2020. this requires setting ambitious targets for the fight against climate change.
our committee proposes to reduce co2 emissions by 60 to 80%, but perhaps by at least 80% tomorrow, to improve energy efficiency by 35% and to achieve a 60% share of renewable energy by 2050. our parliament is asking that this road map should include the evolution of the various sources of energy in order to plan investments in means of production, interconnections and research and development.
in the energy mix for 2050, the industry committee confirmed the role of nuclear power alongside other energy sources, such as renewable energies, and the desire to develop energy storage facilities and to use the potential of the sun, whose resource is infinite.
− madam president, this has been a really fascinating debate and has reflected all the diversity of views on energy and the importance that this issue deserves.
again i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for really going through the process of ensuring that all opinions are reflected in the report, while at the same time clearly supporting the commission’s second strategic energy review.
somebody needs to pay for the grid, and, as you know, we are looking for a balance between affordability, security of supply and sustainability.
these two issues are crucially related to security of supply, while at the same time not taking away national sovereignty over energy.
so, in my opinion, the recovery plan and the third energy package is something that needs to be done.
one is whether we should give public funds to energy at all.
again i would like to thank parliament for its strong support for developing a european energy policy.
i agree that much, if not the majority, of the responsibility falls to our colleague who is responsible for energy.
however, everything that you have been calling for – energy security, more efficiency, intelligent networks, decentralised networks, the supergrid, the micro grid, the virtual power plants – needs ict to be run.
so it is essential that we make every effort to get this intelligent means, in order to put into practice the policy proposed by the committee on energy efficiency.
if we get the ict to allow energy efficiency to go in the right direction, then we are creating many industries, a lot of growth and many jobs.
as you know, we will be adopting the high-efficiency light-emitting diodes – the famous leds – which, already today, will cut 30% of energy consumption in lighting and up to 50% by 2025. we have already, thanks to european research, gone one step forward.
well, if i am reading this plan correctly, i see that eur 1 billion is allocated to energy efficiency in buildings.
eur 5 billion goes to clean cars, so that cars will no longer be dependent on petrol as they are today, and there is eur 1 billion for smart manufacturing in order to use less time and less energy in our industries.
then energy efficiency will not only be about speeches but also about facts.
- mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the extraordinary richness of your contributions, which show how immense this field of energy is and how vital this energy is.
in our debates and in the report, which also reflects the discussions we had between colleagues from the various political groups, i noted a broad consensus on the need to strengthen networks, interconnections, the need to use information and communication technologies to make networks intelligent - as the commissioner has just explained - the need to strengthen relations with producer and transit countries - this was the subject of the committee on foreign affairs and security with our rapporteur, mr dimitri trakopoulos - and an agreement also on energy efficiency, energy savings, the development of renewable energies.
in conclusion, improving energy efficiency, developing renewable energy, diversifying our sources and supply routes, deepening the dialogue with the producing countries, but also the fact that the 27 states speak with one voice and, above all, a change in our lives, this is the consensus we have reached.
these are all necessary ways of ensuring the common energy security we all want.
the differences, of course, concern the composition of the energy mix.
what are the sources of energy?
i would like to reply to our colleagues in the green group and then to other colleagues who have also protested against nuclear energy.
i think we have set very ambitious targets for 2050. we're talking about 80 percent reduction in co2 emissions, we're talking about 60 percent renewable energy, and we're talking about a lot of energy.
it has been noted that a large share was given to all renewable energy sources.
as far as nuclear energy is concerned, it is recognised in this report as being part of the energy mix.
i would remind you that in these efforts that are being announced, we are talking about 9% nuclear, we are talking about 54% energy efficiency, 35% renewables and 14% geological carbon capture and storage.
i'm not a fan of coal, i'm not a fan of nuclear, but we need to have the widest possible range of energy sources.
the reforms offset shifts in the tax base due to liberalisation and are in themselves valuable steps to ensuring sustainable public financing in the acp.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by mr gyula hegyi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the european nature reserves (2008/2210 (ini)) (a6-0478/2008).
− mr president, halting the loss of biodiversity is a priority for the union and for the commission.
but, despite the fundamental importance of preserving biodiversity, progress to date has been limited.
despite the positive developments that have been made in recent years – for instance the natura 2000 network – the eu’s biodiversity is still under continuous pressure due to habitat destruction, pollution, climate change and the impact of invasive species.
the commission’s conclusion was that we are highly unlikely to meet our 2010 target of halting biodiversity decline – and that further intensive efforts will be required, both at member state and eu levels.
we are also launching an overall reflection on the future of eu biodiversity policy and look forward to the input of the european parliament on these questions.
issues such as improving implementation and the relationship between biodiversity and climate change must be explicitly considered.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by mr luís queiró, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on an agenda for a sustainable future of general and business aviation (2008/2134 (ini)) (a6-0501/2008).
there are three main areas on which we will have to focus our efforts in the nearest future: development of common eu safety standards for general aviation; integration of non-commercial aviation into the next generation of air traffic management (atm) systems for europe; and reducing the negative environmental footprint of the sector.
last but not least, general and business aviation, despite the ongoing technological advances, are also impacting on the environment and, like the wider airline industry, they need to contribute to reducing these impacts.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by malcolm harbour, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on pre-market public procurement: promoting innovation to ensure sustainable and quality public services in europe (2008/2139 (ini)) (a6-0018/2009).
everyone is aware that the energy issue is a major issue for the member states.
energy savings, improvements in energy efficiency, research and the commercialisation of renewable energy or new technologies in transport, diversification of suppliers - all these are known ways of reducing dependence.
but in reality it seems that the development of an energy strategy or security of supply is much less important in the report than the establishment of a single energy policy or a single gas and electricity network under the auspices of a single european regulator for each sector.
the report again proposes the nuclear option, since this energy is not competitive and uranium is obtained under dangerous conditions, with ethnic discrimination and with unacceptable health impacts.
coal, in the face of the problem of global warming, should not be considered a 'transitional component'.
i believe that the 'diversification of eu energy resources' is linked to the exploitation of fossil resources in the caspian sea.
oil and gas fields in the kashagan region put pressure on the population and its environmental resources: the extraction of sulphur-laden oil puts the health of the population and biodiversity at risk.
diversification of energy supply involves pipelines of gas and oil to bring resources to the eu.
the tbc or nabucco projects are a threat to the political stability of our neighbours and force us not to compromise it by our energy needs.
the people of the south caucasus must derive economic and social benefits from the supply of energy from their territories.
in africa, the production of solar energy for our needs must be properly remunerated.
why not say in the report that renewable energy and energy saving are the solution for the future?
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
madam president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, our colleague florenz's report perfectly sums up the results of our long work on this major problem of global warming.
we must find ways to combat global warming quickly.
the european commission estimates that €175 billion a year is needed to combat global warming.
to optimise all our actions in the face of this climate crisis, new resources are needed to create a european climate change fund which can be financed through the emissions trading system and which will be used to support adaptation, mitigation, sustainable consumption, energy efficiency, and a large part of which should be dedicated to the poorest countries.
there will be no future for our civilization if we europeans do not take the necessary measures to impose discipline on ourselves to conserve the climate.
it is the major political act, the vital political act to give a balanced future to our continent and to others.... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, one could have said that this report was redundant after the vote on the energy and climate package last december.
but no, this report has the merit of providing a very good summary of what we need to consider in the fight against climate change, and i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, karl-heinz florenz, who had a very visionary spirit in drafting this report.
after the success story of the energy-climate package under the french presidency, we must do everything we can to achieve a good international agreement in copenhagen.
the concern is heightened by the statements of the president of the czech republic, who says that global warming does not exist.
well, even if he was right, our entire mechanism to fight climate change is a response to the severe economic crisis that we're in.
the scarcity of our energy resources, the need for energy security, deforestation, the suffocation of our large cities, where most of the population is concentrated, the need, therefore, for sustainable transport, the inexorable world hunger and the need to feed the planet, all argue in favour of the proposed solutions to combat climate change.
we are entering the era of sustainable growth, this third industrial revolution, which is a tremendous asset for research, innovation, employment, the competitiveness of our companies.
energy efficiency should already be part of all recovery plans, since it is based on innovative technologies.
so by lowering the energy bill, the consumer is satisfied.
by reducing fossil fuel consumption, the european union is becoming more independent and emits less carbon, and this is leading to thousands of new jobs.
yes, tackling climate change is one of the answers to the economic crisis.
it will be done by developing a low carbon economy, with the participation of local communities, businesses, researchers, the participation of all citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we can congratulate ourselves here on the broad consensus, but we are still in a deadlock: commissioner for the environment, ministers for the environment, what is the weight of the environment in the commission and in the councils, in the governments?
i will only remind some of the colleagues who were there in 1992 that there was an excellent report on sustainable development.
the florenz report sets out a very detailed list of actions to be taken to combat climate change and develop accompanying policies.
if the creation of a carbon tax is envisaged, its study and implementation, like that of a systematic carbon balance sheet by product, are not included in the 2009-2014 action programme!
similarly, the creation of a european climate fund is subject to the imperative 'to leave it to the market to determine which technologies should be used...'.
it is therefore essential that the eu addresses very quickly the issue of a carbon tax, public aid to support a green new deal, and the eu budget for climate change prevention.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
we must plan for the world of tomorrow and accelerate the necessary changes, particularly with regard to environmental protection and the requirements of sustainable development.
this sector, like agriculture and textiles, is suffering from relocations and social, environmental and fiscal dumping.
what are we going to do when the americans sell their energy-intensive, subsidized and doped 4x4s and at a dollar's worth of downside to our market, which is also being attacked by low-end vehicles from turkey, india or china?
on the lisbon treaty, we all know that it contains solidarity formulas which should help us to enforce the legal framework for better cooperation in the area of energy within the eu.
in fact, today i had some meetings with the respective chairs of the committee on budgets, the committee on industry, research and energy as well as the committee on agriculture and rural development, because eur 5 billion remains, which was not spent last year, and it has been agreed within the european economic recovery plan to allocate that for some infrastructure projects.
so there are some concerns about the possible environmental impact.
it is also an ecological disaster.
these events give us an idea of how climate change is likely to affect the eu’s future because, as the climate changes, we can expect more extreme weather events.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
some see it as a stroke of fate, but i see it as a macabre illustration of the climate disorder you have just mentioned, madam commissioner, to which we are only providing a rough solution, even though there is urgency.
while the recognition of the status of natural disaster in france will facilitate the provision of support to the victims, this does not remove the need for coordinated european action to supplement the efforts of the member states to protect people, the environment and property in the affected communities and regions.
secondly, it is essential to provide the necessary funds to support local authorities facing immense challenges, including support for public services, which have done an exceptional job and which we greatly need in order to restore infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy, water supply, waste water, transport and telecommunications, health and education.
our role may be, as our colleague said a moment ago, to plan for the future, because other environmental disasters are coming.
we know that the climate is getting more disturbed.
i remember in the committee on budgets, when we were discussing the climate funds, we were talking about a few tens of millions of euros.
how many insurance-related slates will it take to make us realise that protecting the environment and the climate is not a burden, it is an investment in the future?
i know what a major environmental drama is now.
this is why we need a european agricultural insurance fund against climate and health risks.
we need to create a european strategy for the fourth age, such as climate energy, that is to say, to deal with the consequences of climate change for the millions of people over 80 or 85 years of age.
and above all, we must avoid these climate accidents being an opportunity for darwinism and natural elimination, when we must build a europe of life.
the house is calling for coverage of any major natural disaster causing serious damage to people and the environment, such as floods, fires and droughts.
you mentioned this, madam commissioner, and my colleagues have stressed that this will happen again with the effects of climate change.
the commission has also already published a communication on adaptation to climate change.
the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of information centres for the protection of the environment and the environment, and to provide a european network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the objectives are noble: environment, energy, combating desertification, immigration and so on.
thus, they are well placed to contribute to community policies and objectives, particularly in the field of employment, social cohesion, regional and rural development, environmental protection, consumer protection and social security.
with regard to the social economy, our objective is to create a legal and administrative environment, at european level and in every member state, in which social economy enterprises of whatever form and size can thrive and meet the challenges posed by globalisation and the economic downturn.
the vote will take place on thursday 19 february 2009. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by mrs tzampazi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on mental health (2008/2209 (ini)) (a6-0034/2009).
i'm guessing it's to save energy.
this is a good thing, since the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by andrás gyürk, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the follow-up to the national energy efficiency action plans: first assessment (2008/2214 (ini)) (a6-0030/2009).
− mr president, i welcome the opportunity to address this part-session of the european parliament covering, inter alia, the subject of the commission’s assessment of the national energy efficiency action plans (neeaps), which was presented in the second strategic energy review package in november 2008 and the earlier commission communication of january 2008. a more detailed technical synthesis of the commission’s assessment of the neeaps will be presented in the commission’s neeap document this spring.
i would, therefore, like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr gyürk, on his work, as well as the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) for its valuable discussions and comments.
in the past few years, the commission has stated very clearly that energy efficiency is the first priority of the european union energy policy and a very important cornerstone to meeting the 2020 by 2020 targets, and national energy efficiency action plans play a central role in this respect.
the directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services sets an obligation, as you know, for the member states to present these, and to show how in practice they are going to achieve their national targets for energy efficiency.
as has been noted by the members of the itre committee, the first national energy efficiency action plans have proved to be a really useful exercise.
indeed, many member states have, for the first time, prepared comprehensive plans of action on energy savings.
under the energy services directive, neeaps have only a limited role.
the commission will prepare a new european union energy savings action plan that will strengthen and better focus european union actions, helping eu member states and eu businesses and eu citizens to save energy in a cost-effective way.
in your report you urged the commission to propose a binding target for energy savings.
the current energy savings objective of 20% of primary energy saving in 2020 today represents a non-binding target, as you know.
however, the commission believes that, with the climate and energy package, as well as the proposals in the second strategic energy review, we can reach 20%.
financial issues relating to energy savings were recognised by the commission in the european economic recovery plan of 26 november 2008, and in other coordinated efforts which aim to help create jobs, which are often in small- and medium-sized companies, since investments in energy efficiency, and especially in buildings, are mostly related to small-scale renovation projects.
in conclusion, i would like to recall that during the mandate of this commission, eu leaders have given a real commitment to promoting energy efficiency.
boosting investment in energy efficiency and related new technologies offers an essential contribution to sustainable development and also to security of supply.
energy efficiency has a wider impact, far beyond energy policy.
the commission acknowledges the importance of ensuring that a sufficient budget is allocated to fisheries and aquaculture research in fp7, while maintaining a good balance with the other research sectors, particularly in agriculture, forestry and biotechnology: theme 2 – kbbe, and theme 6 – environment.
an incentive to use these tax breaks to promote a more energy-conscious habitat, who could resist that?
in the concrete reality, if you combine the premises and the high labour intensity, you see that you put the whole building, the whole insulation, the whole production of buildings with positive energy efficiency within your directive and, for us, that is more than enough.
i think it is appropriate to go further and also consider a reduced rate for cultural products such as records or videos, green products such as clean cars or buildings built with high environmental quality.
you know that at the last environment council a clear qualified majority was against the commission's proposal.
now this proposal is likely to be put forward again at the next environment council, this time against france and greece.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
you said, commissioner, at the beginning that you would draw up a global strategy based on this report, but you are aware that there is a financial crisis, an economic crisis, a climate crisis which requires us to respond quickly.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by herbert reul; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
nevertheless, the commission's analysis at the time remains relevant in relation to the structural conditions of oil markets, medium and long-term global energy demand, the importance of the european union's energy and climate change policies, all of which are likely to change our patterns of production and consumption, and our behaviour.
many of these issues were addressed in detail in the second strategic analysis of energy policy adopted in november 2008, which has been the subject of further debate in parliament.
in addition, the adoption by the council and the european parliament in december 2008 of the energy and climate change package of proposals marked an important step towards decisive action in relation to our future energy needs, in particular by setting the target of 20% renewable energy in energy consumption by 2020. the commission welcomes most of the points raised in mr reul's report.
we note the support for new investment in alternative energy sources, such as renewable energy, and the priority given to energy-efficient goods and services.
it is clear that, in view of the growing interconnection of energy and foreign policies and the imperative of ensuring energy security, it is imperative to promote good relations with producing countries in order to make the functioning of international markets more predictable.
as regards the issues of energy saving and diversification of sources, we note the arguments put forward regarding the potential for energy savings in the building sector and look forward to the conclusion of the debate on the revision of the energy performance of buildings directive.
as regards the parts on the need to diversify energy sources in the transport sector and to exploit the potential of energy-efficient vehicles, i would point out that the recovery plan includes an initiative on green cars.
these issues are part of general energy, climate and research policies.
we look forward to continuing our cooperation with the european parliament in all these areas and i thank mr reul once again for providing a number of information and clarification elements which are very valuable in guiding our energy policy in the future.
he's right to want to implement conditional access to our markets... however, there are still some problems to be solved: unfair intra-community competition, where a member state imposes stricter standards than those laid down at community level, in particular for reasons of public health or environmental protection.
the consistency with the environmental concerns of this parliament, which should be concerned with promoting short-circuits (eating seasonal products produced locally), rather than an imperfect adaptation to the world market, is also a problem.
the waste vessels are the ones that are affected by this measure.
in the same vein, how many more maritime and ecological disasters will it take for the commission, the council and our parliament to finally care about the permanent scandal of flags of convenience?
but perhaps it would be wiser for the voters of europe to bring to parliament more members who are more concerned with the safety of their fellow citizens than with defending a free trade which is destructive of people and the environment?
we all remember the tragic sinking of the oil tanker erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, and the dramatic environmental, human and economic consequences.
if parliament adopts these texts tomorrow, the european union will have demonstrated that it has an effective system to combat waste ships, against wrongful charterers or owners, and it can be hoped that the environment and the health of our citizens will benefit from this.
at the time of the prestige, i was, with our colleague mr sterckx, co-rapporteur, since we had joint responsibility for transport - i myself had a responsibility for the environment - and we had asked for more safety in maritime transport.
major pollution and collateral damage in a maritime accident, it will be necessary to ensure that the major international conventions, in particular, are ratified, since this is an undertaking made by the member states.
we are at a crucial juncture in our search for ways of safeguarding our industry, while making it sustainable, and of achieving the 'three 20' objective reaffirmed by the then president of the european union, nicolas sarkozy, in our assembly last december.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european union's immense potential for new environmental technologies must be exploited as soon as possible, because these eco-innovations must be integrated into all european policies, which will give a real industrial impetus to economic recovery.
similarly, the regulatory barriers in the internal market which still hinder the development of these technologies must be removed as soon as possible and a real internal market for renewable energy with clear rules of the game must be established, because in a crisis, nothing will be as it is today and this 'other way' must be prepared.
in this respect, we must reconcile the imperatives of sustainable development with the need for a quality industrial fabric that produces wealth and provides jobs.
we therefore believe that borrowing and eurobonds should be used, that there should be massive investment in green innovation, in building insulation, in modern transport, in the energy sector, and that there should also be a plan to support the victims of restructuring and unemployment, and to indicate how we are going to help all those who are going to be faced with unemployment, for example by extending the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
the commission's proposal for faster and more flexible payments, in one lump sum and one single instalment, will enable projects in the fields of infrastructure, energy and the environment to be implemented without delay.
these flags are used to circumvent the union, tax, recruitment, security or environmental regulations of the country of real ownership.
this is a real leap forward for the maritime sector, and also for the environment, which is often a collateral victim of poor maritime behaviour.
while air and noise pollution must be taken into account, the same cannot be said for congestion not only due to road transport; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road transport sector is not affected by the introduction of a new road tax.
road infrastructure needs to be better adapted to the increase in traffic, but above all, we need to move towards sustainable transport, with a focus on low-carbon modes of transport.
my colleagues at modem and i share the same concerns about fighting climate change; this will have to be confirmed as a priority of cohesion policy after 2013.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- oral question to the council on the state of play of the sis ii project by carlos coehlo, on behalf of the ppe-de group, martine roure, on behalf of the pse group, and henrik lax, on behalf of the alde group (o-0005/2009 - b6-0010/2009), and- oral question to the commission on the state of play of the sis ii project by carlos coehlo, on behalf of the ppe-de group, martine roure, on behalf of the pse group, and henrik lax, on behalf of the alde group (o-0006/2009 - b6-0011/2009).
at a time when water is becoming increasingly scarce and the acceleration of climate change is signalling the multiplication of conflicts linked to access to water, i wanted to prepare this meeting by proposing a strong text for the vote of our institution in order to define the basis for european action in this field.
fair and sustainable pricing for all would be both less costly for the poor than the informal sector and would allow for investment in the necessary infrastructure.
under the dual pressures of population growth and climate change, the water crisis is aggravated by the weakness of the political response.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
we are therefore looking forward to the eastern partnership for stability, we are looking forward to it for energy security.
we must ensure that security because, as some colleagues have said, the transit of energy from the caspian sea passes through the caucasus; so we need stability in the caucasus.
mr president, it is good to have a strategic partnership, to trade, to have the volkswagen plant in puebla and to have joint parliamentary committees with chile and mexico, but for thirty years, josé salafranca says in his report, we have been talking about realism, cooperation, the climate, a little discussion about agriculture, drugs, women, water... we have to go further!
i now turn more specifically to the regional integration of the outermost regions of the caribbean in their environment.
mr minister, you spoke of economic sustainability.
indeed, what does that mean in an economic, financial, environmental crisis?
this failure, well, today, i think it will continue, the situation will get worse with these partnership agreements because they are absolutely not adapted to the global economic, social and environmental situation.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i would say that it is never too late to do the right thing, but it is still a waste of time to make territorial cohesion a major political objective of the european union.
the report proposes lines of thought and commitments to be fulfilled, reflecting our desire as europeans to see the european city as a major development axis for our societies: general decline in populations, lack of employment, urban pollution, reduced mobility within cities, housing that is not suited to sustainable development.
this new concept seems to me to be relevant to the consideration of the outermost regions in order to ensure their sustainable and balanced growth.
it has succeeded in making the app a unique tool for north-south dialogue, which is an "opportunity" for equitable, sustainable and supportive development.
moreover, the fight against counterfeiting is imperative through these controls, both in terms of public health, the impact on the environment, but also competitiveness.
we are working with social partners, because we believe that is also part of our model in europe –the idea to work together with our social partners – and we believe that in this way we can help our workers to prepare them for the jobs of the future sustainable and low carbon economy that we want european to lead.
(applause)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
and only by restoring growth, only by restoring the right economic and fiscal environment to entrepreneurs will we restore confidence and jobs.
i am very pleased that this will reduce the environmental impact of air transport, of course, and reduce the cost to the consumer.
once again, i believe, the european parliament has succeeded in overcoming its divisions and moving forward and leading the council to reach a rapid agreement on this matter which is essential for european aviation and the reduction of its impact on the environment, and i am also pleased with the commissioner that this is a concrete, tangible sign for our citizens.
this will lead to significant improvements in flight duration, fuel consumption, travel costs and co2 emissions.
first of all, i would like to warmly congratulate sarah ludford on the energy and results she has brought to bear in the difficult negotiation of this dossier.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by kartika tamara liotard, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods and amending regulation (ec) no xxx/xxxx (uniform procedure) (com (2007) 0872 - c6-0027/2008 - 2008/0002 (cod)).
the agenda calls for the report by johannes blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer (recast) (com (2008) 0505 - c6-0297/2008 - 2008/0165 (cod)).
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i repeat, in the crisis situation we are in, as on all global issues - energy, climate, foreign affairs, security and defence - national solutions are no longer appropriate.
the same applies to the €5 billion package we have decided to invest to support projects in the field of energy, internet-related measures and other subjects.
on the energy/climate package, europe has given the "a" and must not lose its advantage.
climate change will not wait for the crisis to end.
it is therefore our responsibility to convince our partners to join us in the fight against climate change and to adopt the 30% reduction target.
barack obama seems to have decided to take the plunge by deciding to set up a system of trading emissions in the united states.
i voted in favour of the report on the performance and sustainability of the european aeronautical system, presented by my romanian colleague marian-jean marinescu.
it addresses several concerns: environmental concerns, through the introduction of measures to reduce co2 emissions; functional concerns, since it aims to streamline air traffic by increasing capacity and optimum route planning; and concerns about the safety of european citizens, by encouraging cooperation and coordination between the various actors.
according to the epas, sugar and bananas from acp countries will not be able to access the markets of the french outermost regions (ors) for a renewable period of ten years, thus preserving the production of these two pillars of overseas agriculture.
that is why i voted in favour of this joint resolution which calls on the european authorities, in conjunction with the member states, to put in place measures to ensure the future competitiveness of the european automobile industry and the sustainability of employment in the european automobile sector.
for my part, when i read the 'turkmenistan report', i read the 'nabucco report' because, after all, we are interested in energy, in gas from this third largest gas producing country in the world.
moreover, no one is fooled by the energy dependence of the european union countries on russia, as has been pointed out, and the political price we have to pay.
mr president, commissioner, i will simply remind you that it was the polar bears on the ice that showed us how global chemical pollution was on a global scale.
in any case, i would like to thank the commission for the proposal it has made after the discussion we had here in parliament, because there is indeed an urgent need, because of climate change, to preserve - it should be remembered - the only space safe from human predation.
this will save 40 million tons of co2 and reduce each family's energy bill by 450 euros a year.
regions can now benefit from erdf co-financing to invest in energy efficiency in all categories of housing, to develop programmes for thermal insulation or the installation of solar panels in the home.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing community procedures for the establishment of residue limits of pharmacologically active substances in foodstuffs of animal origin, repealing council regulation (eec) no 2377/90 and amending directive 2001/82/ec of the european parliament and of the council and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 of the european parliament and of the council (15079/2/2008 - c6-0005/0009 - 2007/0064 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr avril doyle) (a6-0048/2009).
teachers should in any case have the necessary qualifications which are important for a multicultural environment.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on concerns about the health effects of electromagnetic fields (2008/2211 (ini)) (a6-0089/2009).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
as such, it should be an ideal strategic partner in many areas, including energy.
it also recommends greater mobility and exchanges in the school environment and cites the excellent european comenius programme in this respect, noting, however, the need to make it more visible and more accessible.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in september 2007 the european commission presented its third energy package on the functioning of the internal market.
the debate soon turned to the important but not unique question of the separation of energy production and transmission.
the 'third country' clause, although it seems less sensational than the one originally drafted by the commission, explicitly states that a member state has the right to refuse certification to an operator if this endangers the security of its energy supply or the security of supply of another member state.
perhaps a regret about the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators; we would have liked to have created a strong, independent agency, capable of making decisions without the approval of our body.
let us not be fooled: the construction of a genuine european energy policy will still require many advances, particularly institutional ones.
security of supply, the fight against climate change, market regulation - all these objectives should be pursued in a pragmatic and not dogmatic approach.
the agenda calls for the report by gunnar hökmark, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council (euratom) directive establishing a community framework for nuclear safety (com ((2008) 0790 c6-0026/2009 2008/0231 cns)) (a6-0236/2009).
our parliament has always stressed the urgent need for clear and rigorous legislation and for concrete measures at community level in the fields of nuclear safety, radioactive waste management and decommissioning of nuclear installations.
the agenda calls for the joint discussion of:- the commission statement - combating deforestation and forest degradation to combat climate change and biodiversity loss, and- the report by caroline lucas, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the obligations of operators who place timber and timber products on the market (com (2008) 0644 - c6-0373/2008 - 2008/0198 (cod)) (a6-0115/2009).
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 103 (2) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
like the financial crisis, the pandemics, the climate, immigration, high crime, fish are globalists.
measures will focus on support to private sector smes, energy efficiency investments, and support to investments and infrastructure under national ipa programmes in close coordination with international financial institutions.
according to the principles of ipa, environmental protection, good governance, civil society development, gender equality and non-discrimination are all cross-cutting issues and are an integral part of project design.
furthermore, this is key for the survival of small businesses in the current economic climate.
by supporting this option, parliament confirms the need to combine traditional transport infrastructure policy with an appropriate consideration of new conditions and circumstances; the need for more flexibility and responsiveness to changing situations and more openness for the identification and support of infrastructure measures resulting for transport service requirements; and the economic and environmental challenge to promote a coordinated improvement of transport corridors through a series of small infrastructures and its projects.
the commission also underlines that ten-t investment is key to sustainable economic development and thus is an essential way of helping to overcome the current crisis.
it's rooted in social and environmental issues.
what we want is the setting up of a working group to look at how these memoranda are drawn up and how they take account of the reality of the country in question, but also of the overall strategy of the european union, particularly when it comes to investment arbitrage, support for purchasing power, or conditionality in relation to a strategy for green growth and sustainable development.
it is the so-called 'positive' discrimination or the recognition of informal qualifications, whatever they may be, while requiring europeans to have properly certified diplomas; the recognition of a new category of migrants, the environmental migrants; the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the need for a european union which is not only a political union but also a political union.
in view of the difficulties in the sector, wood should not be penalised in comparison with other materials or energy sources by means of overly restrictive rules when placed on the market.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
there are 400 million europeans living in cities, and these 400 million europeans are affected by these living conditions that every day, they waste time in traffic jams.
we must move faster, commissioner, because these urban mobility action plans are an essential part of the recovery plan, but also in terms of the climate challenge, since, as you have said, 40% of pollution is in the cities.
the european union cannot leave the urban issue aside in the same month - december 2008 - when it is assigning, thanks to mrs merkel or mr sarkozy, a particularly ambitious climate plan.
how can you go into a climate plan that says "three times twenty" and say "i'm not interested in the urban area", which is the one that has the most influence on the climate issue?
it is a matter of political coherence european political coherence since we have agreed among ourselves, and the governments, to embark on the climate plan.
i am not ignoring the fact that there is ertms for rail, sesar, galileo, but i think that there is a lack of a user-oriented approach in terms of user information, accessibility for people with reduced mobility and how urban vehicles can be adapted today, the introduction of an energy-efficient urban vehicle, safety in transport, particularly in public transport, which is a very important subject, user information, ticketing, which often deserves considerable progress.
the report, as voted in the committee on the environment, with the support of most of the political groups except the socialists, is, with some improvements, a response to the judgments of the court of justice.
we must make rail freight more attractive to businesses because if some of the freight transport is switched from road to rail, that is as many greenhouse gas emissions avoided and as many fewer lorries in traffic jams on roads and motorways.
at the same time, heads of state and government committed to promote global trade and investment, reject protectionism and prepare the economy for inclusive, environmentally friendly and sustainable recovery and growth, in order to enhance prosperity.
this included financial market regulation, supervision and transparency of the financial system, rejection of protectionism, pushing for the completion of the doha development agenda, an approach to economic recovery including emphasis on the need to transition the financial sector by cleaning up depreciating assets and laying the foundations for a future sustainable global economy.
despite this necessary reservation, there are four reasons why the g20 london meeting can be seen as a successful start to economic recovery and to a new, more sustainable form of global economy and global economic decision-making.
the only reliable basis for sustainable globalisation and growing prosperity is an open world economy based on market principles, effective regulation and strong global institutions.
at the end of the summit, the heads of state or government declared their conviction that prosperity is indivisible and that for economic growth to be sustainable, it must be shared by states.
the summit agreed on all the priorities agreed by the eu heads of state or government in the european council conclusions of 19 and 20 march 2009. the london g20 summit rejected protectionism, committed to responsible and sustainable economic policies, supported multilateralism and agreed to all priorities for financial sector regulation that eu member states collectively considered essential.
the eu must give this issue due attention, as addressing it remains one of the important ingredients of sustainable economic recovery and prevention of devastating global crises.
it has also opened up the possibility of reshaping the future global connected economy to better prepare it for the long-term sustainable production of economic decision-making coordination.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
a transparent economy, which allows everyone to express their talents, is an innovative and sustainable economy.
in the current economic climate the value of concluding doha has gone up very substantially.
finally, our reservations are based on the fact that, at a time when we want to put europe on the path to a green economy, the text proposed to us does not deal with the energy performance of products or even their partial danger to users.
in this context, we have also introduced the possibility of creating new evaluation criteria which are not merely technical but which allow for the measurement of performance in relation to issues of general interest, such as the environment, safety or health risk.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the january 2009 plenary session we adopted two pieces of legislation on the sustainable use of pesticides and on the procedures for placing plant protection products on the market.
the negotiations on these texts were passionate and made real progress in protecting human health and the environment.
as you recalled, commissioner, these statistics are necessary to know the evolution of the placing of products on the market, but also their use, and above all to calculate the risk indicators defined in the report on the sustainable use of pesticides.
the agenda calls for the report by horst schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down health rules concerning animal by-products not intended for human consumption (animal by-products regulation) (com (2008) 0345) c6-0220/2008 2008/0110 (cod)) (a6-0087/2009).
the transposition of this regulation into national law has indeed had positive effects on the ground, in particular by improving the training of the 7 million european hunters who, through their constant action on the environment, are able to detect rapidly and effectively health crises affecting wildlife.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on: recommendation for second reading of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2002/22/ec on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services, council directive 2002/58/ec on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector and regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (16497/1/2008 - c6-0068/2009 - c6-0068/2009 - c24/08 (cod)) (rapporteur: malcolm harbour) (a6-024/2009), recommendation for second reading of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the common position of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2002/22/ec on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services, council directive 2002/58/ec on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector, and council regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (164677/08/ec) (cod) (codirective 2007/324/ec of the european parliament and council directive 2002/22/ec on the protection of the internal market for electronic communications services in the information society of the european union), council directive 2002/22/ec (codirective on the internal market for electronic communications sector and consumer, and consumer) (codirective 2002/226/ec) (codirective 2002/57/ec) (codirective 2002/56/ec of the european parliament and the internal market for electronic communications services, and the internal market, and the internal market, and the internal market in electricity of the internal energy, and consumer
the rapporteur.
it is time for the partners concerned to look at the welfare of animals used for research purposes and to stop trapping wild monkeys for livestock farms: violence, stress during capture and then confinement, separation of family groups, broken social groups, impact on the environment, disruption of the natural balance of the population, withdrawal of females.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i would also like to say how much we appreciated the way in which you, mr vondra, managed the first months of this presidency in a difficult context, with the energy conflict between russia and ukraine and, of course, the financial crisis.
the commission puts on the table economic forecasts, which in just three months have reduced the growth prospects for the european union and the euro area from minus 1.9% to minus 4%, and when the finance ministers meet, their main concern is the long-term sustainability and quality of public finances, the continuation of structural reforms.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for an opinion, i thank mr peneda for including in his report the fact that the commission did not propose any concrete measures to control the social and health consequences of the ecological and climate crises.
the consequences will be the exhaustion of the boiler and the explosion of the energy bill.
firstly, an energy market is irrelevant.
we therefore feel it is essential to invest in really efficient energy sources, not to be fooled by heavily subsidised energy sources such as wind turbines, and to give preference to solar and nuclear energy.
over a large area, the energy consumption lost is proportional to the distance travelled.
thirdly, with regard to the podimata dossier, which is linked to this dossier, we would suggest that we should not only take into account the energy consumption required to operate a product, but also consider the information on the energy consumption required to manufacture that product.
the communication of this information to consumers will enhance products with high added value for low energy consumption.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i would only mention the most striking examples that you have mentioned: the energy-climate package, the services directive, the financial perspective 2007-2013 and, more recently, financial market regulation.
it is often said that europe is far from the citizen, but are issues such as toy safety, research into rare diseases or alzheimer's disease, consumer protection, environmental measures and the fight against global warming, energy policy and the defence of human rights worldwide really far from the everyday life of citizens?
finally, the union's new responsibilities will generate new financing needs: first, the external relations package, including the creation of the european external action service and the high representative vice-president of the commission, and then the new policies: energy, space and tourism, research, civil protection, administrative cooperation, sport.
people expect us to take action to ensure jobs and growth, to deal with climate change and the energy crisis and to tackle the problems that come with immigration and security – all of those things.
in other words, in the face of the economic and climate double game, we say that we must go faster, that we must go further to get out of the crisis, by making our model of social market economy fully functional.
the epp also expects you to go faster and further, mr reinfeldt and mr barroso, in the fight against global warming.
and what a great opportunity to act and accelerate the movement is the climate conference in copenhagen in december, that is to say, on our own territory!
on climate, europe has undeniably proved that when it wants to, it can.
i'm thinking of the united states, of course, which must turn words into action, but i'm also thinking of the emerging countries, whether it's china, india or brazil, which can no longer ignore that their heavy responsibility in global warming is effective.
we will therefore judge the swedish presidency on its responses to the crisis and in the light of its environmental performance.
the second question is, in the final analysis, the question of the new model of development which must emerge from the crisis, a model which is more sober, fairer and more sustainable, which puts finance at the service of the real economy, which develops new forms of solidarity between europeans, which takes account of social and environmental issues in international trade and which profoundly reforms our relations with the poorest countries of the world, and i am thinking in particular of africa.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that the instruments we are using are not up to the task of dealing with these disasters, which will increase under the double effect of global warming and transport.
our parliament, the committee on the environment, the subcommittee on security and defence will support you in these voluntary initiatives.
in such a context, which will be more and more frequent due to global warming, local resources have been overwhelmed, whereas in previous years the weather was more lenient and corsica had been spared.
but when these fires damage biodiversity, the environment, when they affect what is most precious to people, that is, their heritage, their property, their home, when unfortunately they take human lives, we have no right not to provide for this prevention.
over 400,000 hectares of forest and fields have been burned, causing considerable material damage, irreparable damage to biodiversity, and dramatic loss of human life.
i am appalled by this report, which is repeated year after year, and aware of the multiplier effect of global warming on fires, and i call for a european awareness-raising for better coordination of efforts and a pooling of firefighting resources.
can we formally envisage, in the context of the union for the mediterranean project, in addition to the ecological protection of the mediterranean sea, this urgent aid in the event of fire and the development of forestry expertise on this subject, to be shared and developed with the non-european countries of the union for the mediterranean?
this will be achieved in particular by the exploitation of the mediterranean fortress, which is too unprofitable economically: initiatives supported by the structural funds must encourage the regular development of biomass and its energy exploitation, the development of sustainable forestry and responsible co-tourism.
between the joint decision on the multiannual financial framework in may 2006 and today, there has been the financial crisis, the very high tensions on the price of energy, raw materials and even food, and the climate change negotiations.
i wanted to take a stand against the ever-increasing use of nuclear energy.
by voting, our citizens have made clear choices: the choice of a stable and strong europe in a time of crisis and uncertainty; the choice of a social market economy with ethical rules; and the choice of a responsible climate and energy policy.
it has proved its worth on the energy-climate package and has enabled europe to become the world leader in the fight against global warming.
how can we not be happy that on the two issues of major concern to europeans crisis and climate europe is finally at the forefront?
in france, we were told during the election campaign that the banks were sarkozy, the climate was sarkozy, change in europe was sarkozy.
i hear daul today: the climate is barroso, the thing is barroso.
if you really want to change, you have to explain something to the parliamentarians, to the citizens: the response to the financial and economic crisis must be at the same time a response to the ecological crisis, and if you want to respond to these crises, you have to transform - reform is not enough - transform europe, that is to say in an ecological and social way.
this is the basis of the crisis, and when we talk about sustainable development, it's not just a few measurements, it's trying to explain and understand that, if there are things where we need growth, that is, selective growth, renewable energy, etc., there are a lot of things that need to be curbed.
for five years you have explained to us - four years: in the last year after the crisis, you were more cautious - you have explained to us that the basis of economic and ecological effectiveness was deregulation: deregulation.
you have not seen the financial disaster and the ecological catastrophe coming, despite all the warnings, because they have not failed.
how to prioritise the long term over the short term; how to ensure, for example, that banks are there first to support businesses, households and european investment in regulatory matters; how to set up a european regulator able to discuss social issues on an equal footing with its us counterpart; how to implement an employment pact; how to move towards more upward monetary harmonisation; how to play and show solidarity; how can we make a success of a new enlargement of the euro area tomorrow, also in terms of sustainable development?
you are not proposing a social and ecological conversion of europe.
in the face of this economic, financial and food crisis - let us not forget the billion people who are starving in the world - and the most serious and deep ecological crisis - we need the commission's combativeness.
we need you to draw, and we with you, all the lessons from this crisis, in terms of governance, regulation, innovation or new policies - i am thinking of the idea of a european savings fund to support small and medium-sized enterprises in strategic sectors - and in relation to the deeper crisis, the ecological crisis, with a new model of economic and social growth, green growth, as you yourself have said.
madam president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i have read the guidelines of your programme and i welcome its ambition in each of the major policies, such as economic policy, with the maintenance and creation of activities, the recovery plan, social cohesion, environmental policy, and particularly sustainable development, projects for our youth, the strengthening of european defence, the maintenance of a strong and sustained agricultural policy.
yes, europe needs an industrial policy, an agricultural policy, an energy policy or an energy policy in favour of new technologies as much as it needs a competition policy.
so, despite the reluctance of my own political party in france, i am ready today to support your action and to accompany you in this voluntary approach which you seem to want to take, particularly in terms of sustainable development or the fight against global warming.
international coordination and cooperation will be crucial to securing a broad recovery and setting the tone for a return to long-term, sustainable growth on a stable basis.
finally, i would say that there is of course a strong need for political determination to make progress in the discussions ahead of the copenhagen climate summit.
we want to ensure that everyone has the right incentives to take action to limit global warming and to adapt economic policies to favour climate-friendly development.
our goal is for the pittsburgh meeting to lead to progress on the guidelines for financing global climate action.
the pittsburgh summit agenda will also cover other issues: financing climate change, preparing for the copenhagen summit; the need to resume international trade negotiations and not give in to protectionist temptations; and strengthening support for the most vulnerable and weakest countries to deal with this crisis.
as you know, the commission adopted a communication on climate finance last week.
finally, let me conclude, noting the will expressed at the last meeting of the g20 finance ministers and which will be discussed at the pittsburgh summit, the need to lay the foundations for a future model of more balanced and sustainable growth.
this is firstly achieved by devising exit strategies now, not to be applied immediately, but to be implemented when appropriate in a coordinated manner, because the determination of such strategies is not only key to a sustainable exit from this crisis, but also to offer at the same time a medium- and long-term sustainability horizon after the deep fracture that the crisis has taken on public finances, on employment levels and on the growth capacity of our economies.
the commission has proposed between €2 billion and €15 billion to help countries in the south adapt to climate change.
a man who has taken refuge behind the concept of "better regulation" in order to "less regulation" of everything i stand for as a socialist: defence of public services, social protection of workers, respect for health systems, regulation of the financial economy, protection of consumers and the environment against the power of industrial groups.
furthermore, as europe is engaged in the g20 and climate negotiations, it needed to be united and in good order: today's clear and unambiguous vote also strengthens it in the face of other world powers.
the market for agricultural products is not the market for metals or energy.
mr president, the energy independence of our territory and the security of installations and consumers cannot go hand in hand with disregard for the interests of the peoples of the gas producing and transit countries, which could lead to conflicts.
competition between pipeline projects is not only a source of waste but also a factor of tension in eastern europe, the caucasus and central asia.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis.
this could be the mission of a european energy agency under the control of the parliament and the council, whose only policy would be cooperation and the public interest.
mr president, energy is not a matter for the european union.
energy and access, it will be war, sometimes military, sometimes political, sometimes economic.
yes, nabucco is a good project and we must support it, but, commissioner, we must financially and politically support all the diversification of energy sources, whether it be nord stream or south stream, north or south.
we know that 0.3 percent of the world's deserts could provide energy for everyone.
we know that we will solve our energy problems with human ingenuity and science, but with ethics and conscience.
mr president, commissioner, as my colleagues have just said, the recent gas crisis between russia and ukraine shows the urgency of increasing the energy security and independence of the european union.
this situation cannot continue unless it endangers the energy security of the european union in the long term.
europe will not be able, at least in the near future, to break free from its external dependence on energy supplies.
it is true that to alleviate these constraints we must diversify our dependencies, both from the point of view of energy sources and from that of the supplier countries.
but frankly, i do not see the point in a move which seems to be motivated more by hostility to russia than by energy concerns, of putting ourselves under the thumb of turkey, the point of passage for your famous nabucco gas pipeline, which is systematically favoured over other projects.
in fact, i think it is contradictory to want to have a centralised energy policy in the hands of the commission at the same time as handing over the european energy sector to private actors, which leads to higher prices and reduced benefits, and which has a negative influence on energy choices.
and above all, i believe that energy is too important to be left to the commission officials or to the profit-making appetites of a few firms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for europe to put institutional questions aside and concentrate on the real issues facing the 500 million europeans: the social market economy, energy, climate, security.
on the other hand, and this will be the challenge of the copenhagen conference, it is equally urgent to combat climate change by reducing energy consumption.
at the g20 yesterday, at the climate conference tomorrow, the european union must find the narrow path between two equally formidable threats.
we voted in favour of amendments nos 5, 8, 11, 12 and 13 and regret that the european parliament has not gone further in the areas of accounting transparency, the fight against tax havens and environmental commitments (the 'new green deal').
this means that, very likely, even if the subject is very controversial, we will have to raise the question of a tax, a type of "tobin green tax", to finance climate change.
thirdly, with regard to deforestation, which, i would remind you, now accounts for 20% of greenhouse gas emissions, it is absolutely imperative that we pursue a goal of zero gross deforestation by 2020. i would draw your attention to the difference between gross deforestation and net deforestation, which would be to replace primary forest with poplar trees, assuming that it is the same result.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the world will undoubtedly be decided in copenhagen, but before that, the credibility of the european union as a world leader in the fight against global warming will be decided in brussels at the end of october.
member states must make proposals for climate finance in response to dramatic economic developments.
the question of financing, mitigation and adaptation to climate change in developing countries will be, along with the question of commitments, which i hope will be ambitious, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, another major issue in the coming negotiations.
one hundred countries, most of them poor, account for only 3 percent of global emissions.
while developing countries have contributed the least to greenhouse gas emissions, they are already the most affected.
according to a recent oxfam report, 26 million people have already been forced to migrate due to the effects of climate change or other forms of environmental degradation.
by 2050, these climate refugees could be more than 200 million.
the effects of climate change could undo the progress made in some developing countries and simply prevent the achievement of the millennium development goals.
the current strategy of the european union is not worthy of the ambitions of the leaders of environmental diplomacy.
if we do not stop the degradation of our environment and the inequalities, the worst is yet to come.
mr president, we are the main cause of climate change, but the developing countries are the main victims, which is why the developed countries, which are also the biggest polluters, will have to make strong commitments in copenhagen.
we will have to help these countries to adapt their economies and to fight against climate change, but we will also have to think about a radically different development policy.
africa needs a protected market for sustainable agriculture to emerge.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change has already killed 300,000 people and millions more are yet to die.
to generalize european ambitions to the whole planet would result in a global warming of 4 degrees.
madam president, climate change, as we have been saying since this morning, is simply the worsening of desertification and drought, deforestation, natural disasters, the increase in hunger and poverty, mainly in the southern countries, and migration flows.
the copenhagen summit must benefit from the commitment of the nations of the world to strike a balance between four important objectives, the first of which is, of course, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also to not slow down our economy, to avoid ecological dumping and to promote new european technologies.
they are therefore not considered as countries that should contribute to the effort to reduce greenhouse gases, even though they are among the largest consumers of carbon.
in copenhagen, it will be necessary - and it is a necessity - to create the conditions for a sustainable exchange between countries, based on mutual interests.
to raise the bar, copenhagen must allow for a global agreement, a single agreement, because, as the chairman of the committee on the environment, jo leinen, has just said, an alliance of all, industrialized and emerging countries, is necessary.
today, with our debate and the drafting of a resolution by our parliament, we are again calling on the european union to maintain its leading role in this necessary policy to combat climate change.
yes, we must sign an agreement in copenhagen to achieve collective reductions in greenhouse gas emissions of 30% by 2020 compared to 1990. but that's not enough.
not only is it necessary for developed countries to reduce their emissions substantially, but developing countries must also contribute to the achievement of the targets.
industrialized countries should therefore provide sufficient, sustainable and predictable financial and technical support to developing countries to encourage them to commit to reducing their greenhouse gas emissions.
copenhagen must therefore enable developing countries to move towards low-carbon models.
first, the establishment, at global level, of financing for the fight against global warming, based on taxation of financial transactions.
secondly, i think it is necessary to introduce a tax adjustment at europe's borders which would hit imports of products manufactured without any concern for environmental protection, a tax adjustment linked to a contractual reimbursement to the southern countries of the carbon tax thus collected at europe's borders and which would be used to finance investments in the equipment necessary for their fight against global warming.
contrary to what has been said just now, especially by my green colleagues, europe has begun to take its responsibilities in terms of environmental protection, since the adoption of the energy-climate package in december 2008. with this, europe will have the legitimacy to steer the negotiations towards an ambitious, concrete and global response to the challenges of climate change.
in concrete terms, it is up to us as industrialized countries to ensure that our developing partners, as françoise grossetête said earlier, have the means to join us in an ambitious approach to combating climate change.
we must also lead by example, including by committing to an ambitious programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050. i heard earlier that it was not enough, but it is a good start.
if copenhagen does not result in firm, joint commitments, in concrete achievements by our international partners, we in europe will have to, as our last colleague has just said, impose a carbon tax at our borders.
madam president, the problem of financing the fight against global warming in developing countries, as we have heard many times this morning, can make copenhagen fail, although we all want this summit to be a success.
the committee on the environment, after the committee on development, has admitted that it is now necessary to consider a financial transaction tax of the tobin tax type, which, at a rate of 0.01% on speculative transactions, would bring in $100 billion a year, the amount estimated to be needed by 2020 to combat global warming in developing countries.
let us stop free trade policies, stop the free movement of capital, encourage food sovereignty, declare water and energy global public goods, fight socioeconomic inequalities.
in this way you are destroying the future of our farmers, because it is the young people who will be most affected, the small farmers, those who value the land, produce quality milk products, quality cheese and protect the environment.
everyone knows that as long as the institutional question dominates the european public debate and as long as europe does not have the instruments it needs to take decisions in a democratic and effective manner, the real political, economic, social and ecological issues will not be dealt with with the necessary speed and seriousness.
europe must also do everything possible to ensure a fair trading environment.
finally, i expect the european council on climate to adopt a strategy adapted to the situation, that is to say to the weakness of the commitments of our partners so far, less than two months before copenhagen.
i welcome europe's pioneering role in this area, but it cannot be the only one making the necessary efforts to combat global warming.
we will have summits in just a few weeks with both russia and china and the united states, where climate and energy issues will of course be a priority to discuss with all these countries.
the management of the economic crisis and environmental issues are concerns of people all over the world, not least in the european union.
there are indeed difficulties, because there is clearly a lack of ambition on the part of some developed countries in terms of concrete commitment to reduce emissions.
we are prepared to help those who are really making efforts to reduce emissions.
first, the issue of climate change.
i was asking you about our responsibility as industrialized countries to ensure that developing countries can join us in our efforts to combat climate change.
at the next european council, the 27 will have to agree on how the european union will design aid to developing countries in the important context of climate change.
the european commission has already made proposals, and i would like to see us taking the lead in bringing our partners together in the global solidarity needed to overcome the problem of climate change.
lastly, on climate, we have a responsibility to remove a thorn from mr. obama's foot.
the best service to be rendered to the south is for the european union to commit by the end of october to financing up to eur 30 billion of adaptation expenditure in the south and to commit to a 30% reduction in its own emissions, and then we can move forward with the negotiations.
secondly, when there is a conflict, it is either a matter of defending our economic interests - i am thinking of airbus - or it is a matter of challenging our health and environmental rules - in the case of hormone-treated beef, for example, or chlorinated chicken - and so we must not subordinate our own internal model, our model of society, our environmental model, our development model, to the improvement of economic relations, as if they were an end in themselves.
while cohesion policy plays a key role in the fight against the economic crisis and climate change, the council had proposed to reduce payment appropriations for it significantly in 2010. conscious of the importance of european funds and the expectations on the ground, it was essential that the european parliament should reinstate, and in some cases even increase, the amounts previously suggested by the european commission.
i voted in favour of the first reading of the 2010 budget, which amounts to €127.5 billion in payments, with the hope that the second reading will allow us to achieve more ambitious results, in particular on the resources allocated to a recovery plan that is responsive to the challenges facing us in terms of jobs, social cohesion, climate change and the fight against poverty.
obligation to deliver on climate and energy.
we must solve their unemployment, credit and training problems, the copenhagen climate conference will be full of surprises and we must ensure that the winter of 2009-2010 is not marked by gas supply problems which are putting half the continent in an impossible situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, even more than the institutions, time is running out on the climate, with the copenhagen conference just a few weeks away.
i would like to commend in particular the responsible attitude of the european council, which, while reaffirming its commitment to making the fight against global warming and the reduction of co2 a quantified and planned objective, expects our partners to commit themselves with the same determination.
mr president, climate change has already killed 300,000 people and we consider inaction a crime against humanity.
unfortunately, she is no longer, as the prime minister claims, the leader of the climate negotiation.
to extend the current european commitments to the whole planet would mean 4° of global warming by the end of the century, 4° of global warming!
by refusing to take account of the demands of the european parliament and in particular of its committee on the environment, the council has taken on a very heavy responsibility, that of the failure in copenhagen.
the walls erected, as in ceuta and melilla, to prevent the arrival of men and women fleeing war, poverty or global warming, the walls of detention centres, from the gates of our cities to the libyan desert, via lampedusa, where even children are being locked up in the name of the return directive.
and, with the copenhagen summit approaching, can europe decently endorse a choice that favours gas energy at the expense of the development of renewable energies?
these conditions were mentioned: the quality of public spending, the objectives of sustainable development, employment policy, climate change, but also, of course, the need to respond as quickly as possible to the shortcomings of the previous management, so that these countries that are being helped can get to the right level.
it must quickly become a strong concept of respect for the most advanced rules in the field of know-how, workers' rights, sustainable development and environmental protection, and the expression of a responsible economic attitude.
while globalisation means that everyone is able to produce, the unbridled pursuit of profit alone is constantly translated into repeated violations of the rights of workers and peoples, as well as the destruction of their environment.
yes to respect for the rights of employees and environmental rules, our know-how and responsible management.
in particular, it is a matter of maintaining effective and sustainable competition, but also of making this competition useful for economic and social development by providing full coverage of the european territory in terms of access, broadband for all and everywhere, including better management of the radio spectrum, and by offering the highest rights to citizens who are consumers.
89% thought that more than 25% of greenhouse gas emissions reductions in industrialised countries should be achieved, and 92% of europeans are on this line.
our responsibility is not just to be a co-debtor of the climate debt, it is to do everything we can to convince the only solution of common sense and to be a tireless advocate of the equitable and effective collective effort.
mr president, we know - and a number of scientific studies have shown this - that the emerging countries are making efforts today that are at least equivalent to those of europe in the run-up to 2020. we also know that, in the negotiations, increasingly through the emissions inventory, through the report on the measures taken, there is already a right of sight on the emerging economies.
that would be the best thing we can do for both the climate and the way out of the crisis in europe.
it would not be acceptable for the efforts of the most ambitious countries to be compromised by carbon leakage simply because of the lack of action or inadequacy of some.
so in copenhagen, it will be necessary - and it is a necessity - to create the conditions for sustainable trade between countries, based on mutual interests, while protecting the research and development investments of european companies.
it is, while fighting climate change, to launch a real technological programme that will stimulate innovation and thus create new jobs.
i have heard a number of my colleagues downplaying the magnitude of this global warming.
but we must bear in mind that, worldwide, several hundred million human beings will become what may be called climate disasters because of this increase.
secondly, we must have a binding agreement which states that greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 30% by 2020 and by 80% by 2050. we must also ensure that there is some clarity in the financing.
and then we must introduce a universal carbon tax with the possibility of a financial transaction tax and to conclude, i am very surprised at the double-talk of my colleagues in the epp in relation to what i hear in my country, in france, from the president of the republic, and again this morning, from minister borloo.
the european peoples we represent here are waiting for an agreement, an agreement which will make it possible to combat effectively all the climate changes we see around us every day.
the european union, the only continent to have seen its co2 emissions decline since 1990, the only continent to have made specific, binding and ambitious commitments for the future, cannot shoulder the burden of the effort alone.
i want the climate package signed under the french presidency to be proof of that.
i would like to see national initiatives, such as the carbon tax, which mr pargneaux has just welcomed, which are pushing for the introduction of an ecological tax.
a sector such as transport, which is one of the biggest emitters of co2, even though some modes of transport, such as aviation, emit less greenhouse gases, is increasingly contributing to the fight against climate change.
so we must call on our leaders to create an international organization like the wto, in charge of regulating climate change and environmental issues, to create a climate change adaptation fund - in addition, of course, to official development assistance - to create a carbon tax for shipping and air transport, as we must do for financial transactions.
we see the urgent need for global environmental regulation, as well as financial markets and the internet.
we have the opportunity to open this march of history with the environment.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, with less than two weeks to go until the copenhagen conference, there is growing concern about the success of the climate change negotiations.
the world's major powers are still reluctant to show the ambition that the climate emergency demands of us.
the decision cannot be postponed indefinitely to tomorrow, otherwise it will be too late, and hence the need to create a world environmental organization, which is not only necessary but also urgent today, since it will be called upon, under the auspices of the un, to monitor the implementation of the commitments made in copenhagen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against climate change, the protection of indigenous peoples plays a vital role.
when it comes to the environment, poverty, health, they are the first to suffer from climate change.
we should also have referred to bio-piracy and indigenous peoples' right to self-determined property as fundamental tools in the fight against climate change.
forests are not just carbon, they are life.
- first of all, on the issue of the climate change portfolio, or rather climate action, i see this competence as very important.
the commissioner for climate action will of course have the responsibility for the follow-up to copenhagen, with all that this implies in internal and external matters.
this also requires consideration of the particular situation in the part of the country from which the person concerned originates, as well as the particular circumstances of that person, such as his or her family environment, activities in the country of origin or any other specific characteristic which may make him or her more vulnerable.
soon, we'll be selling shared charters as car-sharing in the name of fighting greenhouse gases.
regional integration, particularly in its south-south dimension, the responses to the economic crisis which is hitting hard with its corollary of job losses, considerations of human, social and environmental development and the question of human rights must feed the discussions and return to the heart of our concerns.
the impact study, it was said, above all revealed that there were potentially very serious negative impacts, whether they were social, environmental or in terms of regional integration.
we support the draft resolution under discussion today, not least because it raises all these questions of social impact, environmental impact, impact on regional integration, and above all because, in paragraph 10, it calls for a review of the objectives of trade agreements, particularly in the light of these social and environmental issues, and above all because it might perhaps be imagined that by reviewing these agreements, the trade aspect could be reintegrated into the overall barcelona process.
the second topic is climate.
on climate change, i hope that the union will speak with one voice and act with one after copenhagen, whatever the outcome of the conference.
let us set ourselves the target of an effective 30% reduction in greenhouse gases!
finally, on the economic and social situation, we must work towards the emergence of a new economic model, which gives priority to employment, social progress and the long term, that is to say, sustainability in all its forms.
there's always been global warming.
we must set ourselves the target of an effective 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
on the climate issue, action is urgent and should not leave the developing countries powerless, who are affected in the first place but do not have the appropriate means to act on phenomena that developed countries have caused!
future generations will be powerless to deal with the effects of climate change if global action is not taken now.
this commitment must also include the introduction of a financial transaction taxation which is not used to finance the supervision of the banking sector but that of developing countries and global public goods such as the climate.
a public service concerned with the general interest and therefore with the rationalization of the journeys made, in order to reduce the ecological footprint.
they will be able to identify these products with the social, environmental and safety standards generally associated with this country, as much transparency as our citizens, as responsible consumers, demand.
the notion of 'made in' must not be just a matter of branding, it must quickly become a strong concept of respect for the most advanced rules in terms of know-how, workers' rights, sustainable development and environmental protection, and a responsible economic attitude.
it is absolutely breathtaking to see, in a country like turkey, what the prospect of accession is capable of generating as a transformative, democratizing energy.
today we must test the new institutional mechanism resulting from the lisbon treaty, make europe a political entity and consolidate the policies our citizens want in the fields of employment, economic recovery, the fight against climate change, energy security and common defence.
soil degradation, the loss of biodiversity, dependence on oil, greenhouse gas emissions, the depletion of groundwater and changing consumer patterns are putting us in a fragile situation, more fragile than 40 years ago.
sustainable agriculture must be a priority area.
innovative financing mechanisms, such as an international financial transaction tax, should be explored to support climate change adaptation, while being accessible to smallholders in the most vulnerable countries.
europe has a long tradition of volunteering and must help unlock its potential: as a vehicle for learning for its members (it is clear that participation in voluntary activities equips citizens with new skills, contributes to their personal development and strengthens their sense of belonging to society), volunteering also embodies european values such as solidarity, civic participation and non-discrimination, in sectors as varied as education, culture, the environment, social assistance and health.
how will the commission prepare for the next phase of the redeployment of cesar, and in particular for the financing of this programme which is essential for the environment and for our scientific and technical outreach?
a new agricultural policy must therefore also be a food, environmental and territorial policy.
because the upward trend in agricultural prices was presented by many as sustainable and farmers probably invested far too much in 2008 and early 2009, much because some backlog has accumulated since the early 2000s.
each one is focusing on its own particular objectives instead of focusing on the overall objective of creating a multilateral trading framework based on fairer rules to enable fairer trade, and which contribute to sustainable development and poverty eradication.
this leads to a deadlock and misses the point: the need to create a new regulation of the international trading system, which is part of the new global governance that everyone has called for, especially after the g20, to meet the real challenges of today: equitable development of all continents, the eradication of poverty, food security, respect for social rights and decent work and the fight against climate change.
this is the angle in which each of the points of discussion should be viewed: on agriculture, respecting the commitments of july 2008; conclude the negotiations on the modalities; guarantee, in particular, special and differential treatment, respect for special products, safeguard mechanisms; to develop agricultural aids towards sustainable agriculture and food security; on products covered by the amna, request tariff reductions from the developing countries i conclude which are compatible with their level of development; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's external relations.
if we don't act, the spread of free trade will lead to the destruction of our civilization much faster than global warming.
however, it needs to be reformed and take into account the interactions between trade and sustainable development.
there, our great national leaders agreed in two days to raise €2.4 billion for 2010 alone to finance the so-called european union aid to the disadvantaged countries in the field of climate change.
mr president, in our union, access to reliable and low-carbon electricity should be recognised as a vital right for every european citizen.
to achieve this, our union must pursue a genuine european public energy policy, and not settle the dismantling of a nuclear power station in bulgaria by way of a budgetary procedure.
building an energy europe for all means recognising that energy is a public good of humanity and not a commodity; repeal all deregulatory and competition liberalising directives in the energy sector; ensuring control and public ownership of the entire nuclear sector, including on decommissioning and subcontracting issues; to create a european energy agency which would coordinate and pool all the energy research and security efforts of the member states and guarantee equal access to energy for all citizens of the european union; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the energy sector.
this eig would make it possible to carry out, in a cooperative framework, major projects in the distribution networks, in the production of energy with low carbon emissions, in research and in security.
the council and the commission have opted to let member states develop their own, often competing, recovery plans and have given up on coordinating economic, social and environmental recovery at european level.
beyond the big political statements, the president of the commission, mr barroso, has to tell us how he intends to finance the european policies of the future, on which he speaks a lot, in particular those relating to the new growth strategy and climate change.
these are energy, highways, high-speed rail, waterways, universities, education, broadband, health, space, and so on.
i would simply like to add one thing: while i myself and my whole group will be voting in favour of the budget we are discussing on thursday, i would nevertheless like to stress that we are not only facing an economic, financial and environmental crisis - as was mentioned earlier - but also a very deep social crisis linked to the rise in unemployment.
it is also reflected in the latest proposals of the european council, whether on climate, the crisis or the establishment of a europe of security, a europe that protects.
responsible management, because on the climate, on security, but also on employment and the economy, europe is implementing the model of the social market economy.
it supports smes and strengthens social cohesion, without which nothing sustainable can be achieved.
president reinfeldt and mr barroso, on the climate, europe is showing a spirit of responsibility here too.
in a few days, we will see if europe's courage on climate has paid off.
mr president, madam minister, the swedish presidency has experienced what can be described as historic moments: the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the appointment of the first president of the european council, the high representative, but also the climate conference or the appointment of a new commission and again - allow me this little reference - the telecom package.
the same applies to financial commitments for the countries of the south in the fight against climate change.
the exploration of new financial resources for employment, intra- and extra-european solidarity and financing the fight against climate change is a major challenge.
it has also benefited from other financial support from member states under economic recovery plans and other support, notably in the context of policies to combat climate change.
finally, i do not think that global warming is a matter for cohesion policy.
the use of this fund is in line with the logic expressed by the energy component of the european energy recovery plan.
the energy component of the european economic recovery plan contains some notable proposals.
the creation of a specific 2020 fund, the increase in state requirements on the environmental performance of products and the encouragement of the construction of energy-efficient buildings.
i voted with little enthusiasm on the european budget for 2010, so as not to prejudice the financing of the second tranche of the european recovery plan (energy infrastructure and broadband internet), the launch of a new european initiative for microcredit (up to €25 million in 2010) and emergency aid for the dairy sector (an additional €300 million).
it is not with such a budget that we will be able to boost growth in a sustainable way and combat climate change effectively.
on the other hand, the european council's announcement last friday of the "willingness of the eu and its member states to contribute to the financing and rapid implementation of €2.4 billion per year from 2010 to 2012 to help developing countries fight climate change" is a step in the right direction.
i voted with little enthusiasm for the 2010 budget, because it does not meet the challenges we face, not only in the context of this serious economic and social crisis, but also in the perspective of combating climate change.
the crisis of the capitalist system and the environmental crisis, the result of the forced productivism of the unrestrained pursuit of profit, will have done nothing.
the eu continues to blindly apply neoliberal dogmas without regard to the evidence of their economic inefficiency and their ecological and social harmfulness.