even the science is against you; pest resistance problems will be aggravated; there will be a loss of biodiversity.
yes, the common fisheries policy; yes, let us talk about sustainable development – but the two are inherently contradictory.
if you want to look at a sustainable fisheries policy, you have to look at property rights and market-based solutions.
that is the best way to make sure that we have sustainable fish stocks, not some artificial communistic method where you have central planning in fishing.
i agree with the aims of the legislation to promote the health of our environment, the health of us as individuals, but it really potentially threatens a huge agricultural industry in my region.
whilst the protection of the environment and safeguarding of public health go hand-in-hand, i believe we have to balance the needs of consumers and producers.
madam president, i voted against this simply because the proposal has been hijacked in effect by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and commissioners.
i have incurred no apparent detriment to my health or the wellbeing of the environment.
the report correctly notes that eu fisheries policy should promote the modernisation and sustainable development of the fishing industry, safeguarding its socio-economic viability and the sustainability of fisheries resources, and guaranteeing the supply of fish to the public and food sovereignty and security, the preservation of jobs and improved living conditions for fishermen.
no-one disputes the importance of protecting the environment but this legislation is unbalanced.
then, of course, there is the economic climate in which we find ourselves these days.
the next item is the report by carl schlyter, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 76/769/eec as regards restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (dichloromethane) (com(2008)0080 – c6-0068/2008 – 2008/0033(cod)) (a6-0341/2008).
my constituents will become richer with their new technology, and everybody will live happily ever after thanks to the excellent work of carl schlyter and his colleagues on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
on energy, you are right to pursue the aims of the strategic energy review, but the review and our climate change targets should not be a ceiling to our ambitions, rather a springboard to greater and greener heights, to force the pace on europe’s switch from fossil fuels to renewables and put an end to our umbilical energy dependence.
that is not a functioning energy market.
so stop talking about the internal market in energy and the development of renewals: use your presidency’s powers to mobilise the necessary investment.
the czech presidency programme has set some important priorities: the three ‘e’s of energy, economic improvement, and europe’s role in the world.
the czech president describes the climate change package as a silly luxury.
you will also be able to reach out to the american president on the issues of climate change and bring him into the equation for copenhagen.
how refreshing it will be to hear someone who has the intelligence and honesty to doubt the ideological orthodoxies of ever-closer european union and climate change.
in view of the intolerant climate in which part of this debate was held, it would seem so.
– mr president, i quote from a speech made on this subject by my colleague, godfrey bloom, on 25 october 2006: ‘the thought, the idea or the concept that the united kingdom’s energy supplies could possibly be controlled by some sort of arrangement with a gangster like putin is absolutely ludicrous.
we need to redouble efforts to improve efficiency and increase conservation of energy in electricity consumption – both in industrial use and domestic consumption.
above all, we need to rebalance our energy mix and to do so with the twin objectives of security of supply and climate change policy.
by increasing the share of electricity from renewables, nuclear energy and clean coal technology, we can do both, but each of these options takes time to deliver and, in the mean time, we must tackle improving energy efficiency with urgency and imagination.
mr president, russia’s use of interrupting gas flow as a diplomatic weapon has once again proved why we need a common eu external energy security policy by intergovernmental cooperation.
however, it will also provide an impetus to the green agenda by encouraging renewable energy and energy efficiency and a renaissance of nuclear energy.
i support slovakia’s emergency demand to the commission to reopen their closed bohunice reactor, which will also help to address climate change.
the best way to ensure that russia can no longer bully or put pressure on ukraine, or even provoke the eu into bullying ukraine to settle, is to champion a common eu external energy security policy which will show solidarity between the member states at times of crisis and energy shortage.
this means increasing our commitment to indigenous energy, including especially renewables and nuclear power.
madam president, this crisis highlights the importance of making the eu more energy-independent, but, while we are discussing energy supply, we must not forget the fundamental importance of also controlling energy demand.
we have a 20%-by-2020 eu energy efficiency improvement target and a number of pieces of legislation focussed on energy saving.
these energy efficiency actions will not only help to tackle climate change and fuel poverty: they will also very significantly improve europe’s energy security.
there is of course a good reason why the commission’s action plan on energy efficiency has an international element to it and recognises the importance of encouraging energy efficiency improvements in countries outside europe, not least countries supplying and transiting energy to europe.
i thank him for explaining the gravity of the situation, but when is the council going to learn that until the eu speaks with one voice on energy issues, in particular in relation to russia and the ukraine, we are going to be in a weak position?
we shall shortly be starting negotiations on the second reading of the energy liberalisation package.
the region has been devastated by decades of war, famine, environmental degradation, corruption, mismanagement and political repression.
the eu has rightly set ambitious targets for renewable energy, but the idea that achieving these targets will be pain-free is a delusion.
the severn barrage could supply up to 5% of the uk’s energy needs, yet this would challenge interpretations of the habitats directive.
europe must continue to emphasise its commitment to development and free trade within the context of ensuring an end to exploitation and meeting the need for sustainable development.
– mr president, last year’s energy review was a timely update, and i congratulate anne laperrouze for her rigorous report on it.
the issues raised are highly complex, but we can boil them down to this: europe needs an energy policy that gives us sustainable, affordable and secure resources of energy.
sustainable by breaking our umbilical dependence on the fossil fuels that are choking our planet; affordable by guaranteeing a stable and realistic cost to consumers; and secure by freeing european citizens from dependence on unreliable or monopolistic suppliers.
energy is on the agenda, and our side should make clear that we cannot tolerate a dispute between russia and georgia evolving into a european gas crisis in the depths of winter.
the time has come fundamentally to reassess europe’s energy supplies.
that is why this week a small group of us, including mr hammerstein, who will speak later, will launch a cross-party pamphlet, making the green energy switch at a time of crisis.
there is an appetite in this chamber to work fast, to work together, in search of a lasting solution to europe’s energy crisis, and we must harness that.
of all the potential plans to open up a new energy era, one stands out: it is called the supergrid, or desertec.
a number of members, including ms harms, recently visited southern spain to see the technology in action: solar thermal power from north africa and sun-rich land in southern europe harvesting energy from the sun, generating the equivalent of one and a half million barrels of oil per square kilometre per year.
transported through energy-efficient, high-voltage direct current cables, that power could be fed into a european supergrid, taking renewable energy from across the eu – tidal power from coastal regions, wind and wave power from windswept north-western europe, and biomass and geothermal power from wherever they flourish.
the german aerospace centre estimates it would cost eur 45 billion to build, but it also says that it would save consumers many times that amount in reduced energy bills over the next 35 years, and the investment would create thousands of jobs.
this is a bold project for an energy future that is sustainable, affordable and secure.
that is the energy future that europe must champion.
madam president, in all the discussions on the energy crisis, there is one aspect which my colleague, anne laperrouze, does mention, but which generally receives insufficient attention.
we talk about energy efficiency in the context of climate change and of fuel poverty, but energy efficiency is also of huge strategic importance.
controlling demand takes pressure off the supply side and is crucial to reaching energy independence in europe.
first, i am concerned that the roll-out of smart meters is not going ahead with the degree of commitment required by the energy end-use efficiency and energy services directive and called for in the morgan report.
in some countries, digital displays are available to show consumers how much energy they are using – which is helpful – but a proper smart meter does much more than that.
they are crucial to the task of transforming buildings from being energy consumers into being net energy producers.
there is a lot more to energy-efficient lighting than compact fluorescents, and it is time for the public sector – and that includes the european institutions – to take the lead on using ict for energy efficiency.
how much of that procurement is actually spent on investigating, researching and encouraging the development of new solutions to the big challenges that public authorities and indeed society face every day: a better health service, a better transport solution, dealing with climate change, more energy efficient buildings?
this also ties in with the second initiative from the commission covered in my report, the ‘lead market initiative’, where we are looking for public authorities to lead in a number of key technology areas around health and climate change in transport.
it is also – if you are looking at this as part of an overall policy – part of a sustainable return that people will actually go back with what they have earned.
mr president, once more we have preened ourselves in this parliament on our green credentials, and speakers have competed to push higher and higher the unrealistic targets for energy from only renewable sources and the targets for reductions of co2 emissions – all in the belief that by our puny but costly efforts we will save the planet.
yes, we should use and promote sustainable energy sources, but pursuit of what for most has become a dogma with no regard to cost or viability needs to be tempered by reality, including the reality that climate change is not new, but cyclical.
whether it is the car industry working to reduce emissions, or universities creating strategic links, the success of promoting this agreement is measurable.
however, given the various pressures on the environment, the commission has proposed action to protect and nurture europe’s most remote and isolated regions.
this approach marks a significant departure from many previous transport-related proposals and is to be welcomed, although we must remain vigilant to ensure that the sector can continue to grow in a sustainable way without the kind of onerous red tape that, far too often, has characterized the commission’s proposals.
− i and my british conservative colleagues welcome the strategic approach on the supply of energy as contained in the laperrouze report on the second strategic energy review.
− i voted in favour of the laperrouze report on the second strategic energy review despite (for me) its over-enthusiasm for nuclear energy.
in my own region, the south-west of england, we have the possibility of constructing a tidal barrage across the severn that would, with far less potential damage to the environment, have an output of two nuclear power stations and provide in a ‘green’ way 5% of britain’s energy needs.
− the eu has ambitious plans, matched against a risk that resources will be increasingly constrained as populations around the globe demand more energy.
the answers, in maintaining current security of supply and developing efficient non-carbon based energy, are not mutually exclusive.
safety of our environment and avoidance of energy poverty among those people, particularly in the south-east of england, who live on fixed incomes are equally important objectives.
that is why i support a mixture of technological solutions to energy supply in the eu.
− energy independence in europe requires to be higher on the political agenda.
the need for clear definitions across the european union on energy poverty is also important.
there also requires to be more joined-up thinking in terms of how we can harness the green economy to help us through the current financial crisis by creating jobs, but also to give the eu energy the independence which we need.
isolation, sanctions or any other forms of boycott would be harmful to talks and negotiations aimed at achieving a sustainable solution to the conflict.
question no 38 by gay mitchell (h-1071/08) subject: efficient spending of the eu budget with the coming into force of the eu budget for 2009, how is the commission continuing to ensure that the money of the eu taxpayer is used to its maximum efficiency and waste kept to an absolute minimum?
what impact would such a move have on eu-iceland relations - notably in the fields of environmental and maritime/fisheries cooperation - and does the european commission have in place provisions to deal with such a development?
there is virtually no reference to it in this report and only a passing mention in the commission’s comprehensive strategy for achieving a climate change agreement in copenhagen.
because its population has more than doubled in 50 years, it is continuing to grow fast, demand for energy grows with it, and chinese people want what we have in the west, and they have every right to that.
population growth is even faster there and again they are turning to coal for energy.
we must do so entirely through non-coercive means, and we must never arrogantly forget that those of us in the developed countries contribute vastly more to climate change than those in developing countries.
admitting the central importance of population growth is key to addressing it, and we will not succeed in tackling climate change or achieving sustainable development if we fail to do so.
today we are told there is a consensus around catastrophic man-made global warming.
the myth of consensus is a propaganda triumph for the alarmists, but repeated surveys both of the scientific literature and of working climate scientists show a wide range of views on both sides of the debate, with many believing that the jury is still out.
it is true that the world has warmed slightly, although slowly and intermittently, over the last 150 years, but this is entirely consistent with well-established long-term natural climate cycles that gave us the roman optimum, the medieval warm period and the little ice age.
ice caps have shrunk on mars, yet nobody imagines that industrial emissions or 4x4s are to blame.
we are now planning to spend unimaginable sums of money on mitigation measures which simply will not work and which, by damaging our economies, will deny us the funds we need to address real environmental problems.
as a british journalist, christopher booker, has remarked, global warming alarmism is the greatest collective flight from reality in human history.
the latest science tells us we need to be reducing emissions by around 9% year on year.
the targets set out in this report and in the eu’s climate package are simply not ambitious enough.
if we are not well on the way to a zero-carbon economy in the next eight to ten years we will have lost the opportunity to have halted the worst of climate change.
today we speak of renewables and energy efficiency.
we are failing in giving the impression that the climate change debate is all about giving things up, about doing without things.
we need to get much better at showing real political leadership and demonstrating that action on climate change will bring us a better quality of life.
so i commend to you the idea of adopting a green new deal for europe, a way of addressing both the economic crisis and the climate crisis, with a major investment in energy efficiency and renewables, to create millions of new green jobs in europe.
mr president, i want to raise a voice of concern and caution in this frenzied debate about climate change, particularly as it could affect food production.
yet within this proposed climate change package we have emission-reduction demands which, if met, would reduce food production when we need it most.
faced with the choice of feeding the world or ticking climate change correction boxes, i am afraid i am on the side of common sense and necessity.
the package of climate measures that we have taken perhaps could have been better, but they were a start – they were a step forward.
we need to move on to shipping and to agricultural emissions.
i may be wrong about the probable impact of global warming.
madam president, as this is the end of the work by the temporary committee on climate change, i want to thank, firstly, karl-heinz florenz for his work, but also – from my own group, the socialist group – riitta myller, dorette corbey and our chair, guido sacconi.
i would just like to highlight one point, which some people have already touched upon, and that is the important link that we need to make between jobs and tackling climate change, and between getting out of the economic crisis and tackling climate change.
because, if we do not make that link and we do not get the economic recovery programmes right, people will start to say – and they are already saying it – that this climate change stuff was all very well when there was economic growth but we cannot afford to make all these investments now.
their countries will become bankrupt unless we invest in renewable energies and unless we reduce our energy dependency on insecure sources of fossil fuels.
dorette corbey talked about what can be done in the way of energy efficiency measures.
if i look around my own constituency, yorkshire, i can already see considerable investments in renewable technologies, in energy-efficiency measures in different companies.
now we have plans to develop carbon capture and storage in many of our power plants and major industries.
this will create jobs and it will also help us cut our emissions, which of course is the object of all the work we have been doing.
madam president, a mystique bordering on a religious creed has grown up around this alleged global warming.
the environmental scientist has had a field day, but the natural world obeys the laws of physics and chemistry, subjects which i taught for 39 years.
the global warming theory has cast co2, a natural constituent of the atmosphere, as a demon gas.
is it an exponential graph – a runaway – where co2 in extra amounts causes an ever-increasing rise in global warming?
– i welcome the florenz report on climate change which aims to formulate policies for keeping global warming below 2° compared to pre-industrial times.
i particularly welcome the call for a 20% improvement in energy efficiency, the call for binding targets for agriculture and the demand for the creation of a european climate fund.
these proposals plus the measures already adopted by the eu put us in a strong position to argue for global action on climate change at the copenhagen summit.
madam president, i did, in the end, vote for this report because, as a whole, we are all in favour of preserving our environment.
the first rider is that we can only have a proper policy on climate change if everybody joins in.
it is simply a waste of time for the european union, or an individual country, to have a policy.
the second rider is that, in the uncertain times in which we live, a policy of climate change has to be tempered with the need for energy security.
we face a situation in the world today where all of our countries need a ready supply of energy.
president obama has been elected to office saying that he is going to put the environment first in his programmes.
even if the united states and the european union act in concert to limit the emission of carbon, we must consider what will happen if we do not do enough to encourage the emerging india and china to do the same – by transfer of technology and by helping the chinese and the indians to find the most modern low-carbon technology that we can export and help them to partner.
the fact is that, as we speak, china is making the production of carbon-intensive coal-fired power stations come on stream every two weeks.
we condemn global warming, yet our monthly peregrination between brussels and strasbourg generates hundreds of thousands of tons of greenhouse gases.
we cant about sustainable land use, yet the common agricultural policy encourages the felling of hedgerows, the use of chemical-based fertilisers and the dumping of surpluses on vulnerable third world markets.
we preach conservation, yet the common fisheries policy has created an ecological calamity, wiping out what ought to have been a great, renewable resource.
we talk about climate change.
we talk about energy efficiency.
so it is time for politicians in this chamber to stop emitting their own hot air over energy efficiency and climate change, cut out the hypocrisy and close down the strasbourg parliament.
competition is the prime driver of efficiency in any market – energy or whatever – and here we are using a tool – technology – across the european union to drive an energy efficiency market.
surely we should drive energy efficiency through competition in the european union.
had we done so and had we looked at how we can compete with each other to increase our energy efficiency, we would have the best efficient energy market in the world.
− british conservatives welcome the broad thrust of the report of the temporary committee on climate change.
we believe that the report offers a significant contribution to the debate, which will lead to an effective international agreement on climate change in copenhagen in 2009. we support in particular the aim of ambitious medium and long-term emission reduction targets, the promotion of renewable energy and increased energy efficiency, and the call for a sustainable approach to forestry, rainforests and deforestation.
we also believe that a low-carbon economy will trigger greater innovation, which will create new and competitive businesses and new jobs in the fields of clean technology, renewable energies and green enterprises.
however, we cannot support the concept that the european security strategy and the european security and defence policy have a role to play in tackling the effects of climate change.
we also strongly oppose references to the lisbon treaty, in particular those which suggest that the competences of the european union in the field of climate change are not already sufficient.
we believe that the eu has all the powers that it needs to help the peoples of europe work together to succeed and lead by example on climate change.
− climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing the world today.
i am in favour of energy-efficient light bulbs, but frankly it is not enough!
i was recently asked at a public meeting in cheltenham in my constituency what i thought was the most important thing that could be done to combat global warming and climate change.
the backing and encouragement of a powerful eu speaking with a single voice will do more to combat climate change than millions of energy-efficient lightbulbs.
− i support this report which reinstates the eu's short-term commitment of reducing emissions by 30% by 2020 if there is an international agreement.
it also reinstates the target included in the bali roadmap, that industrialised countries should reduce emissions by 80% by 2050. i welcome this report which urges the commission and council to adopt a leadership role in the upcoming post-kyoto talks in copenhagen and calls for minimum eu energy-efficiency standards for new and refurbished buildings.
the report calls on econfin to introduce reduced vat rates for renewable energy and energy-saving products.
i support the call for economic incentives such as a carbon trading system for countries to protect their tropic rainforests, and a call for energy efficiency measures to be adopted at local and regional level to combat energy poverty.
− this report tackles key issues relating to climate change, such as a call to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, promote renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency.
we are currently facing a situation where the effects of climate change and global warming are creeping up on us faster than we had previously imagined.
for this reason, it is imperative that environmental policy remains a top priority for the eu and individual member states.
along with the climate and energy package adopted in december, the eu clearly now leads the way in terms of environmental legislation and is in a position to encourage countries outside of europe to follow suit and promote policies which seek to tackle climate change.
− the targets set by the eu to reach a coordinated reduction are vital if there is to be corresponding change for the better in our environment.
i voted to improve the structure of this coordination by use of a variety of sources – including the beneficial effects of safe nuclear energy production – all of which needs to be reviewed in the light of advice from national inspectorates and changes in technology.
an emissions trading scheme for aviation, whilst it may have only a marginal effect, is still an appropriate way ahead.
− the debate on an integrated policy on climate change is vital if we want a 50% cut in carbon emissions by 2050.
in writing.
− the importance of energy efficiency and its contribution to meeting our climate change targets cannot be underestimated.
energy efficiency programmes have the potential to create jobs.
but there is one thing that the european union could constructively do here, at least until the recession is over, and that is to give car manufacturers a break from environmental restrictions.
these environmental and other standard restrictions make cars more expensive.
this is something that occurred in the republic of ireland, but the ironic thing is that the waste oil which was the supposed cause of the problem originally came from northern ireland.
if we create a protectionist climate, then the whole question of trade, not aid, to help alleviate poverty will be blown off course and thrown out of the window.
the marginalisation of tamils, at the expense of the majority sinhalese, needs to be addressed in an urgent and permanent manner in order to ensure a stable and sustainable multiethnic society with regional devolution.
let me say on another matter, in defence of mr wilson, the minister of the environment in northern ireland, that i am glad he does not fit the stereotype that unthinking climate-change hysterics expect in this house.
we need to see a radical rethink in the european union about how we ensure that we listen to children and invite children to participate, because we understand that it is children themselves who give lives to the values that are enshrined in international law through the convention on the rights of the child agreed in 1989. it is my experience that the children themselves – the young people – have a wealth of understanding and experience – which we must tap into – on how to tackle poverty and environmental degradation.
extending it to embrace house renovations and repairs would be its greatest asset, because stimulation of the hard-pressed construction sector is very much required, and, to achieve optimum effect, that concession should not be restricted to energy efficiency measures only.
areas such as house renovations and extensions, energy-saving improvements, and perhaps gardening and landscaping work and, as olle schmidt said, care for the elderly and care for children, are the ones which would get people into work and probably increase the tax-take, because those people would be paying tax on their incomes as well.
like others who have spoken, and indeed the previous speaker, i strongly believe that this proposal must apply to energy conservation, and energy conservation measures must be a high priority of the member states.
it would reduce environmental damage by reducing co2 emissions, it would assist in job creation, because energy conservation measures are very labour-intensive, and thirdly, in the long run, it would of course lower energy bills for the elderly and other vulnerable people in society.
i hope that the commission will press ahead with this proposal, that it will persuade the member states that so far remain unpersuaded and that it will emphasise that, as part of the proposal, you can interpret energy conservation measures as being included.
employers also need to promote a healthy working climate, paying attention to work-related stress and the underlying causes of mental disorder at the workplace, and tackling those causes.
let us not forget that for over 40 years we have had a common fisheries policy that was designed to run european commercial fishing on a sustainable basis, but has failed to deliver either environmental sustainability or development of the fishing industry.
of course, we can apply new technology and new research with all the will in the world, but if we continue to have a system where, despite all the innovation, governments tell individual fishermen in detail how much they can fish, then all the applied research will be a complete waste of time.
madam president, in the current difficult economic climate, this report brings the kind of joined-up thinking that is desperately needed.
we also need to stress that we have to allow member states to reduce vat on certain items to battle against climate change.
vat reductions across the world are used to encourage people to buy energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly fridges, freezers and other goods that use up large amounts of energy, and cheaper prices for these products will help the less well-off.
what a needless waste of resources and time.
− the european union wastes more than 20% of its energy due to inefficiency, representing about 400 mtoe (million tonnes of oil equivalent) less energy, and would also represent a huge cut in emissions.
i support this report because it highlights the need to be more efficient with energy.
the report gives us a target of saving a 9% loss of energy by 2016.
in writing.
the emphasis will be on the things in your document, such as green technologies, zero carbon technologies, and, above all, on seeing how ict, can foster innovation and be able to get the new growth that the european economy will need.
i also welcome the call for improving access to finance because, in the current economic climate, access to finance is crucial for the survival, let alone the prospering, of small businesses.
it is a milestone in the environmental performance of european vehicles, because environmental performance is not only achieved by making engines that use less fuel, but the car offers other ways of saving fuel and reducing emissions.
finally, it is also an important contribution to our policy of better regulation, because it leads to a really drastic simplification of the whole regulatory environment.
the package of measures makes an important contribution to the implementation of the european strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles.
these measures will reduce average co2 emissions by 6 to 7 g co2 per km.
i would also like to point out that this proposal will significantly reduce noise pollution from traffic, because the reduction of rolling noise from tyres will significantly improve the situation here.
let me take this opportunity to emphasise once again that we will only achieve sustainable mobility in europe if we take the potential of all the factors involved in an integrated approach, i.e.
as regards simplification, this regulation will simplify the regulatory environment in an impressive way.
we set down a road map in cars 21 about the environmental and safety challenges that we expected the industry to meet, and the crucial thing there is to give them stability and knowledge so that they can plan and design their new products in a sensible and sequenced way, albeit with demanding deadlines and targets.
however, in the current circumstances of the car industry, given that cars are not being sold, it was quite clear in the discussions we had with the council that, in fact, 12 months was probably unrealistic, and we had to consider the serious environmental consequences of getting rid of tyres that are perfectly good and sound.
i would also draw attention to the important environmental measures – particularly tyre pressure monitoring systems – which will not only save on co2 but also make cars safer, because under-inflated tyres are a cause of many accidents.
this will not only benefit the environment but also save motorists money – it is cash in people’s pockets, which is very important at this time.
– mr president, the idea behind the directive on integrated pollution prevention and control (ippc) was to enable us to achieve maximum environmental benefit for minimum cost, giving much flexibility to industry and to member states.
i do not see why a member state that has invested in making sure that its industry is setting high environmental standards should be undermined competitively and environmentally by those member states that are not prepared to make similar investments.
to some extent there is a balance between old, traditional pollutants and the new concern of global-warming gases.
i am prepared at second reading to negotiate a derogation – an extension of the large combustion plant requirements – to keep old plants running so long as we do not end up building new coal-fired power plants, locking us into high emissions of co2 for decades to come.
however, it has to be a genuine trade-off: there has to be a genuine commitment from member states to make the changes necessary to reduce their co2 emissions in order to allow the continued pollution from existing plants for a few years longer.
mr president, i support this measure and its aim of promoting best available techniques for environmental protection, but i do have concerns about parliament’s methodology on it.
they will not support a european environment inspectorate: they want to stick with national enforcement agencies.
i commend to you amendment 129, which exempts standby generators in health-care facilities from pollution controls that would treat them as though they were operating 100% of their time.
i think there is a balance to strike between environmental protection, on the one hand, and on bureaucracy and cost to industry and smaller installations, such as farmers and health-care installations, on the other hand.
the requirements would mean that, without a time-limited derogation, the possibility for short-term continuation of national emissions reduction plans or energy security would be at risk.
i find that the minimum emissions limit values would become the default values rather than focusing on full application of the more ambitious best available techniques, and could well reduce the level of environmental protection, whilst at the same time vastly increasing the costs of implementation.
first of all i have to admit that i am a farmer but i do not have pigs, i do not have poultry, though i do have a greenhouse in the garden.
mr president, some of the amendments you ruled inadmissible were also ruled inadmissible by the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety under the recast procedures.
industrial installations make a significant contribution to pollutant emissions in europe, but heavy industry is one of the drivers of our economy and needs to be encouraged to produce greener emissions.
the integrated approach is welcome, but the stringent rules in this report are of concern, and i am concerned that the implementation costs should not be so heavy that they undermine the environmental protection provisions.
we need checks on the european safety net and we need to look at issues such as the spreading of manure and slurry which, i believe, would be disproportionate to the environmental benefits we get.
administrative burdens and costs have to be proportionate to the environmental benefits, because if that is the case we will have a win-win situation which would help businesses meet their environmental commitments, bring significant support in the fight against climate change, and have the potential to improve health conditions for young and old people across my region.
our agricultural producers must be able to earn enough to cover the extra cost generated by eu food-safety, animal-welfare and environmental requirements.
this report reduces co2 emissions through new standards which tyres must reach, which will improve fuel efficiency and cut fuel bills.
the directive would have assessed the hospitals’ boilers on the basis of their potential emissions, rather than their actual emissions - thus causing them to incur substantial costs to obtain a permit.
notwithstanding these concerns, we must act in concert to address the common threat of climate change and environmental pollution.
− i support a more open gaming environment in europe.
this report seeks to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to ensure a fair and transparent gaming environment in cyberspace.
i also want to remind honourable members, particularly from the ppe-de group, that this chamber has consistently demanded from the commission a proposal and strategy to internalise external costs in all modes of transport – but in particular road transport – and this has indeed been highlighted as our roads become more congested and global warming more severe.
there is also a need to see a more balanced road sector that is not only economically sustainable, but also environmentally sustainable, and one that recognises that it has to pay a fair price for the costs it creates – be these environmental or infrastructure costs.
this report is a serious attempt to deliver what parliament has called for over many years; it will be an important tool in combating congestion, in improving the environment and in facilitating modal shift, which is why it deserves our full support.
mr president, i want to say a word on the need to include co2 emissions in the eurovignette.
co2 emissions from heavy goods vehicles amount to almost a quarter of emissions from road transport and, while cars are gradually getting more efficient, hgv fuel efficiency has not improved in the last 15 years.
i would say to both of them that the biggest threat to all markets will be if we get overtaken by pollution.
i do not believe that an extra 2-3% will be a huge burden, but it will show that we are taking serious steps to counter pollution.
i think parliament well knows the safer internet plus programme, with a budget of eur 55 million for the period 2009-2013, which co-funds projects with the following objectives: increased public awareness, provision of a network of contact points for reporting illegal and harmful content and conduct, in particular on child sexual abuse material, grooming and cyber-bullying, fostering of self-regulatory initiatives in this field and involving children in creating a safer online environment, establishing a knowledge base of the new trends in the use of online technologies and their consequences for children’s lives.
an investment in quality childcare will help families and children alike in providing families – mostly mothers – with an opportunity to work, by giving children the chance to a high-quality, nurturing environment akin to the home.
the council will consider the eu’s negotiating stance for the copenhagen climate conference.
climate change will not stop as the economy slows, and the poorest countries will suffer – still – from our carbon consumption.
member states must commit the cash to counter climate change and to create green-collar jobs in the process, perhaps by using the money we have, as claude turmes suggests, to leverage more through the eib or the eif.
madam president, i want to refer to our strategy and preparations for the copenhagen conference on climate change later this year, where we have taken a leadership role but one which is threatened by the economic recession and demands that we relax our standards.
more than three years ago we agreed that new requirements would be placed on car manufacturers to change the air conditioning refrigerants they use, which currently have a global warming potential 1 400 times greater than carbon dioxide.
it is very important that commissioner verheugen takes a lead and makes it clear that we are not going to relax our standards, and that these refrigerants must be replaced by 2011. if we weaken now, we open the floodgates to lobbying from industry across the board, and our leadership role on climate change will be seriously undermined.
madam president, my contribution today will be one that highlights the need for investment: investment in jobs; investment in our environment; and investment in all our economies.
let us prioritise the electrification of our rail network, giving us both transport and environmental gains.
madam president, i voted for this proposal because it postpones the folly of an utterly unnecessary waste of even more money on translation services in this house in respect of irish.
i would have preferred the entire folly of that waste to have been overturned.
however, at least this saves our taxpayers some of the unnecessary waste.
madam president, i was the shadow rapporteur on the sacconi report into co2 emissions from passenger vehicles, and i can see from the work that i did on that that we do need to reduce our dependence on oil.
russia has shown in the past that it will not hesitate to use its control of much of our energy supply to achieve political and economic goals, and we need to do all we can to reduce their ability to do so, and to do that we of course need to reduce our dependence on oil.
we have previously made commitments in this house to the reduction of emissions.
transport has a key role to play in the fight against climate change and should be assisted in meeting its responsibility, but this report will do little to help.
the noise charges for trains take into account the broader environmental impact of transport and fit well with the proposals currently going through the committee on industry, research and energy on reducing noise in car tyres.
it is odd that the report mentions rail, sea and inland waterway transport yet neglects this sector, one of the principal contributors of carbon emissions.
madam president, the reason i want to give an explanation of vote on this particular report is because i cannot believe the hypocrisy of this house in talking as it always does about climate change.
they travel and cause carbon emission while they are getting here.
not only are we building a new block in luxembourg, leading to more carbon emissions that could well contribute to climate change – or not, depending on what one believes on the issue – but also it is simply hypocritical for us to carry on debating climate change while we continue to operate out of three places of work.
if we are going to tackle climate change, it is about time we put our own house in order.
we need to make certain that we still have secure jobs and sustainable careers for people when the economy begins to perform better and support key sectors such as the car industry.
the report is part of a package of initiatives aimed at making transport more sustainable, and ensuring that users will only have to pay the transport costs directly related to their use of that particular mode of transport.
tolls will be charged for local noise pollution, local air pollution as well as infrastructure damage/costs.
this will help us in our fight against climate change.
this is still an objective which is achievable, even if the current economic climate damages the true potential.
− i voted in favour of this resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
despite the depth and breadth of the current financial crisis, a product of deregulation, cowardly regulators and greedy bankers, we cannot take our eyes off the need to continue to act to halt climate change.
in fact, an environmental approach could lead to greater innovation and spark renewed productivity whilst also having a positive effect on our environment.
imported products, which are not subject to the same high environmental and other standards, are placed on our shelves, often at much cheaper prices.
the european community has been working towards strengthening the international standards within the relevant wto committees, in particular the tbt, sps, trips, trade and environmental committees.
question no 4 by claude moraes (h-0047/09) subject: climate change what preparations is the council making in the run up to the g8 summit in july and the climate change conference in copenhagen later this year in order to move international negotiations forward on climate change?
in addition, what further action in the fight against climate change is the council planning in order to consolidate the package of measures agreed upon in december?
the point behind my question is that we should be aware that our younger constituents in particular – and i am sure i am not the only one in this situation – want to urge both this presidency in its mid-term, and also the swedish presidency, to look carefully at what the americans are trying to do in ensuring that there is no conflict – and mr vondra did mention this – between tackling the urgent priority of the economic crisis, unemployment and so on, and encouraging action on climate change, promoting the climate change package and encouraging industries to be involved in the low-carbon economy.
we have to ensure that the work environment is pleasant.
i just wanted to raise the other side of that coin because those of us who were recently in guyana with the acp regional conference were made very aware of those countries which have too much water because of climate change.
mr musacchio was talking about the climate change impact on water; how it can contaminate, how it can dry it up, lose the access, but here we have too much and we have to bear in mind what that does in terms of polluting water supplies and causing damage to crops and all the rest of it.
i want to congratulate the commission on its initiative on the issue of making energy security one of the prime objectives for dialogue and for the political agenda.
external energy security policy is vital.
− we have to do all we can to help children of immigrants fulfil their potential and flourish in their new environment.
as we have seen in copenhagen this week, climate change is accelerating at an alarming rate, which will further exacerbate water shortages.
firstly, that the review clause in the agreement is a genuine review clause and will be taken seriously by the commission: that we will look at development priorities, such as the alleviation of poverty, sustainable development, economic diversification and the contribution to achieving the millennium development goals at the five-year point to ensure that epas are working in the interests of all these things, not against their interests.
this will provide a level of legality essential for protecting acp markets and securing a more stable environment.
it also recognises that there is concern, particularly in this house, over issues such as environmental standards and core labour, occupational health and safety legislation.
we should also recognise that, in seeking some sort of balance between trade issues and environmental protection, ilo standards etc, the pendulum can often swing too far one way and we end up with these taking precedence over trade and condemning poor countries to even more poverty because we make it difficult for entrepreneurs in those countries to develop capacities.
− madam president, i would just like to focus on the microcredit issue, which the committee on budgets completely supports as it will help people without access to normal sources of funds – the very sort of people who need help in the current environment.
in the present economic climate, the prospect of jessica producing the anticipated leverage effect is diminishing, leaving an unfilled gap in many cities where urban redevelopment and investment are still needed.
it is an utter waste of time this parliament even debating or reporting or voting on the idea of dialogue if collectively – and that is the truth about this parliament – it refuses to acknowledge what is said to it and refuses to respond to it.
urban cohesion is essential in delivering sustainable economic and social progress.
it is crucial too, despite the pain of recession, to confront the challenge of climate change and the problems posed by poverty.
prime minister, you spoke about the need for action, so will you give the imf and the world bank an explicit mandate to tackle the drought, flooding and disease that accompany global warming in the developing world?
we need a new and sustainable economy enshrined in a global social contract.
however, when commissioner verheugen says that general motors must not follow a ‘beggar my neighbour’ policy, can he join with me in asking them four questions: firstly, to fully disclose their restructuring plans, not simply to the german government but to the british and other member state governments too; to complete a full environmental impact statement on the carbon impact of the eur 3.3 billion package they propose; to bring clarity to the future of their joint venture with the french company renault for van production in luton, in particular; and to outline to you and to us what guarantees exist that a subsidy in the short term will secure production and employment which are genuinely sustainable?
written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulations (ec) no 549/2004, (ec) no 550/2004, (ec) no 551/2004 and (ec) no 552/2004 in order to improve the performance and sustainability of the european aviation system (com(2008)0388 - c6-0250/2008 - 2008/0127(cod)) (a6-0002/2009), and– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 216/2008 in the field of aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services and repealing council directive 2006/23/eec (com(2008)0390 - c6-0251/2008 - 2008/0128(cod)) (a6-0515/2008).
we are also against the suggestion that a novel food cannot be approved if ‘it has a negative impact on the environment after being consumed or becoming waste’.
meanwhile, money going to the nabucco pipeline will ease our troubling energy reliance on russia.
from the economic and financial crisis to energy security and climate change, the presidency has been steadfast and clear in its objectives and it has offered europe clear leadership in testing times.
scotland is rich in energy resources with tremendous potential to develop renewable sources such as offshore wind, wave and tidal power.
eu support for development of clean energy generation and distribution will help not just the scottish economy, but will also benefit fellow europeans, contributing to energy security and climate change mitigation.
the announcement of eur 600 million for the eastern partnership is excellent and i welcome the proposed european neighbourhood and partnership instrument spending on improving eu energy security through better storage facilities for oil and gas and building new pipelines.
moreover, lisbon itself would of course ratchet up expenditure through pursuit of new competences and new ventures, such as lavish waste on the space policies which would come within its ambit and further policies linked to climate change.
we urgently need to finance energy and climate-change programmes and invest significantly in green technologies.
madam president, i did a lot of work with the car industry when i was fortunate enough to be the shadow rapporteur on the sacconi report on co2 emissions from cars and that convinced me more than anything of the huge strategic and commercial value that the car industry offers to us in europe.
in the region i represent, there is a large toyota plant at burnaston in derby, where various measures to cut costs have already been enacted to meet the new financial environment.
last week i visited the michelin tyre plant in stoke, and again i was impressed by the research and development fund and efforts to improve the efficiencies of tyres, with a view to providing environmental and social sustainability.
i welcome the introduction of performance targets for air traffic management which should provide a more efficient aviation network to safeguard environmental and economic progress.
economic partnership agreements should become tools for poverty reduction and eradication whilst incorporating the aims of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
− car manufacturing within the eu depends upon reaching standards which can facilitate stronger environmental rules.
having the right workforce which can believe in a sustainable manufacturing future is essential.
this must be balanced with environmental and social conditions.
as for all these countries, we need to make sure that they are secure in a very difficult environment.
in fact they are of vital strategic value to the eu, given the union’s wish, and turkmenistan’s apparent desire, to move out of russia’s shadow when it comes to energy supplies.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the negotiations taking place in may 2009 under the auspices of the international maritime organisation (imo) on the conditions for the entry into force of the convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships by johannes blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0028/2009 – b6-0224/2009).
commissioner, i only need to use your own words about your energy and vigour in pursuing the interests of consumers, which, i think from our side of the house and, indeed, for all members of our committee, we have admired, and we encourage you very much to continue that work.
looking through the barricades being erected he might reflect, if he thinks at all about the european parliament, that its two-seats policy is absolutely mad, a complete waste of money.
i support this report because it stresses that the agreement should ensure that increasing bilateral trade brings benefits to the widest number of people and contributes to the millennium development goals, including preventing environmental degradation.
this report demonstrates that the massive urbanisation in several regions of spain has been carried out in a way which abuses property rights, degrades the environment, undermines water provision and quality, and often leaves victims bereft of any redress or compensation when they may have lost their life savings.
− thousands of european citizens continue to be victims of a system of massive urbanisation, expressed in a very large number of petitions concerning the abuse of the legitimate rights of european citizens to their property and environment.
secondly, we consider that violations of community law appear to be at issue, in particular environmental law and public procurement rules.
i have been approached by many expats, all of whom did everything they could to establish a proper, legal and sustainable life in spain.
i do think this is an important debate in the context of the current economic climate.
for all of these reasons, i welcome the support that we are giving to culture and to cultural industries, support to small and medium-enterprises, which i think – in the current economic climate – are possibly going to be the backbone of what we will be looking at.
this is a country that uses energy supplies as a weapon, a country whose cavalier conduct in the caucasus and the baltics sets its neighbours’ nerves on edge, and a country where the rule of law flexes and bends to accommodate those in favour with the kremlin, and turns the screws on those who are not, as today’s new trial against mikhail khodorkovsky confirms.
nevertheless, the effects of climate change and of human activities in the arctic region extend far beyond the arctic itself.
so far, issues with an arctic dimension have tended to be addressed by the union within the context of sectoral policies such as the maritime policy or the fight against climate change.
in march last year, high representative solana and commissioner ferrero-waldner submitted to the european council a joint report on climate change and international security.
it drew attention to the far-reaching implications of environmental change for the arctic and it recognised that these could have consequences for international stability and for european security interests.
this took up the various strategic challenges of the region and proposed concrete actions in three main areas: the protection and preservation of the arctic in cooperation with the population; the sustainable use of resources; and strengthening multilateral governance of the arctic.
scientific evidence shows that climate change is occurring much faster in the arctic than in the rest of the world.
the communication focuses on three broad goals: protecting and preserving the arctic, in full cooperation with its inhabitants; promoting the sustainable use of resources; and beefing up multilateral governance.
this was all the more necessary because many eu activities and key developments of global scope, such as the integrated maritime policy or climate change, have an effect on the arctic.
for example, we propose a regulatory framework for sustainable fisheries management where areas and species are not yet covered by other instruments.
secondly, we will work closely with the international maritime organisation, developing and enforcing solid international standards for safer arctic navigation, respecting human safety and environmental sustainability.
however, we insist that the extraction and use of arctic resources must always adhere to the highest possible standards for the environment and sustainability.
our sailors and traders devastated the arctic environment in the 17th and 18th centuries with the so-called ‘rape of spitsbergen’.
it is our industrial emissions that have led directly to acute climate change in the region, and we now threaten to impose our values and our traditions on the peoples of the arctic at this very sensitive moment.
we have to listen to them and work with them because, quite frankly, their record of protecting their environment is better than ours.
i have seen the european union landfill directive, which has had industrial waste – laughingly called ‘compost’ – thrown upon the land.
near my own village, i have seen what used to be wonderful fields of wheat and barley and dairy cattle being turned over to things like miscanthus and all sorts of other biofuels, wrecking our environment and pushing up the cost of food.
the european union wants us to meet our objectives of renewable energy.
as the world confronts the issue of global warming impacting on the melting of the two caps and causing rising sea levels, and as frozen arctic maritime passages re-open to navigation, it is important that an analogous arrangement be found for the frozen – or should i say thawing – north of the arctic.
it is rightly made clear in the text that what is barred is the creation of an intimidating environment for an individual, not perceived offence towards a group.
in particular, i welcome of the cutting of paperwork by allowing flat and lump-sum payments, allowing spending on energy efficiency in housing, bringing forward some gbp 6 billion of spending to start this year, and making it easier to work with the european investment bank loans.
finally, i was very proud that commissioner hübner came personally to lowestoft, in my constituency, to launch our gbp 100 million european regional development programme and its emphasis on helping business in our communities adapt to low-carbon growth.
the economic crisis must not deflect any of us from meeting the long-term challenge of climate change.
indeed, investment in environmental technologies in management should lead recovery efforts.
if member states take this opportunity to use up the 4% of erdf funding to facilitate investment in energy efficiency in the housing sector, this will make a positive contribution both to our economies and to the environment.
it is good to see a proposal such as this, which tackles problems of the economic crisis and the environment simultaneously, coming from the commission.
the report is especially good news for many of the old member states, and i am glad to see that old eu member states will now be allowed to utilise a proportion of erdf funds for interventions which promote energy efficiency in the housing sector.
madam president, time and time again discussion on energy efficiency has focused on the fact that much more could be achieved – and quickly – if only up-front funding was available.
that is why it is so important to allow erdf funding to be spent on energy efficiency, not only in the eu-12 but also in the eu-15.
despite considerable progress, the uk housing minister has admitted that only one per cent of the current housing stock is energy-efficient enough to prevent fuel poverty.
in the interests of tackling climate change, fuel poverty, unemployment and energy security, and like mrs ţicău, i urge the commission to raise the current percentage limits considerably higher in due course, as the committee on industry, research and energy called for in its vote on the recast on tuesday.
emas is a voluntary scheme, which provides a framework to assist businesses and organisations to improve their environmental performance.
but if we are to increase the impact, we also have to retain the environmental integrity of the programme.
i think the agreement we reached today does achieve that balance between, hopefully, making it more attractive to people, while at the same time retaining the environmental integrity.
i do hope these will encourage people to take part in emas, not because i want to play a numbers game and see emas competing with iso, but because i think the scheme is a good one and could help us to meet our sustainability criteria.
there will be some, no doubt, who are wondering why we are sitting here talking about environmental auditing at a time when organisations and companies are feeling the financial strain.
we need to invest in energy and renewables, and we need to be cutting our environmental footprint.
although emas is a very modest programme in the big scheme about climate change which the commissioner has worked so hard on, i think it nevertheless plays a role in helping the european union and the rest of the world to cut our environmental footprint.
mr president, can i support my colleague, linda mcavan, and congratulate the members of the committee on the environment for bringing forward this report?
the problem of voluntarism may also be that it is just not going to be enough in terms of climate change today.
i was struck, when the climate change bill went through the domestic parliament in my own member state, the united kingdom, by how the british employers’ federation, the cbi, actually said it wanted binding statutory reporting on climate change by business.
given what we are saying in the european union about what needs to happen on climate change, the question is whether voluntarism will be enough, even with the changes we are agreeing in this report.
i invite the commission not simply to promote and apply emas, which i want to be successful, but also to look outward to establishing and strengthening global initiatives on carbon emission reporting by companies and other aspects of corporate responsibility, so that we get strong global mechanisms and that we then can apply and promote them on our own continent.
− madam president, i just want to pick up on what avril doyle spoke about when she said we have a plethora of initiatives and labels which are ethical and sustainability labels, to say that i think the commission needs to look at this to make sure that people are not being misled.
mr president, i supported this report because i believe it continues the crucial work done by this house in linking our commitment to the environment to our need to deliver member states out of the current financial crisis.
but also, because every aspect of our economy and society is affected, we need to take a holistic approach to economic and environmental recovery.
i worked in housing for 18 years and i am concerned that sufficient attention has not been paid to housing and energy, especially at construction time, as housing contributes significantly to carbon emissions.
using the european development fund monies to complement regional and local authorities’ schemes for double glazing, insulation and solar panels or for replacing old boilers for more energy-efficient ones is an excellent example of how the european union can help member states to meet targets which will be of benefit to all european citizens.
mr president, when i saw the title of the report, ‘investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy for housing’, i was impressed.
no one could disagree with that in these times of concern over climate change, whatever one thinks about that.
we all agree that there should be better energy efficiency and better energy conservation.
how can we talk about energy efficiency, how can we talk about conservation, when we continue to have three european parliament buildings?
we have a building in strasbourg that is only used for 12 weeks in the year and continues to emit co2 and waste energy when we are not there, an office building in luxembourg that members never visit (and we are now building another building in luxembourg) and we have this chamber here in brussels.
it is time to stop the hypocrisy on energy efficiency, to lead by example and to only have one parliament building.
mr president, once again, i voted in favour of this report because i believe, if we are to make strides in fighting climate change, we need to make choosing green products easier for the consumer.
by introducing a voluntary scheme such as ecolabels, we can encourage a market in more energy-efficient and ecologically kinder goods.
this will fit in with other market-based solutions to climate change, such as tax reductions on eco-friendly goods.
a good model is the report on energy efficiency of tyres, which i have been working on and which presents similar details in a clear, concise manner.
− madam president, this energy package is the culmination of years of hard work in which parliament can be very proud of the changes that will now be put in place.
we should, in particular, be proud of the fact that the eu’s energy consumers have now been put right at the centre of the energy debate for the first time and the issue of energy poverty has now been recognised at european level.
the inherit conflict of interests that arises when a company owns both transmission and generation of electricity has been addressed, and the regulatory regime governing the energy markets has been strengthened.
this legislation will also ensure that every household in the eu will be fitted with so-called ‘smart meters’ by 2022. these smart meters will enable customers to better control their energy use and increase energy efficiency, helping to cut energy costs and reduce carbon emissions.
on the european parliament’s initiative, the new legislation also includes special protection measures for vulnerable energy consumers, and the issue of energy poverty will now have to be taken seriously for the first time.
i would like to ask commissioner piebalgs if he will now make a commitment that, in future, the energy framework of the eu, in addition to addressing security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness, will also now add a fourth leg – that of affordability – to all future energy policy proposals.
an eu-backed report has recently concluded that up to 125 million citizens are affected by energy poverty.
the most controversial part of the package centred on whether there was a need for full ownership unbundling in the energy markets – in other words, a total separation of transmission systems from generation.
i view the future role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators as crucial in achieving the long-desired internal market in gas and electricity.
during the trialogue negotiations, it became clear to me that the improvements put forward by me on behalf of parliament are essential for fair and effective energy markets.
in particular, if it is to contribute effectively to the development of a single, competitive, energy market, the agency needs more powers to tackle cross-border issues and encourage effective cooperation between transmission system operators (tsos) and national regulatory authorities (nras).
turning to the roles i mentioned, i believe that monitoring internal markets in gas and electricity, participating in the development of network codes, contributing to the implementation of the guidelines on trans-european energy networks, monitoring progress on implementation of projects to create new interconnector capacity, having the power to decide on exemptions from requirements for investments in infrastructure, monitoring implementation of the 10-year network investment plans and having powers to issue opinions and recommendations to tsos – along with other aspects that i do not have the time to enumerate – will all give the agency ample opportunities to bring about change.
madam president, from the beginning of our negotiations on the belet report we found that all the stakeholders – from the tyre manufacturers to the environmental lobbyists – were broadly in agreement on the need for this legislation.
any support the industry receives during the downturn must focus on the requirements to adapt to the environmental challenge.
this information will help make the move towards goods that reduce emissions as well as noise pollution.
this is my swan song after 15 years in the european parliament, and i am delighted that we have made such a significant improvement in the energy markets on behalf of the european public.
i think that the energy crisis will become more acute in future years, so getting the right market framework in place, and creating the right kind of incentives for the right kind of investment, is crucial.
let us not forget that there are many eu laws that already exist in the energy markets, and it is precisely because these laws were not being respected that the revision of this law needed to take place.
i have to say that my disappointment about our lack of success in tackling ownership unbundling is offset by my optimism about the possibility of the agency imaginatively using the powers that we have given it to deal with the situation, and i would like to thank my other colleague who demands more power for the energy regulators.
- the mr president, deforestation is responsible for about 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
therefore, from the perspective of climate change, tackling deforestation is a major priority.
at the same time, tackling deforestation contributes to other important goals, such as ending poverty and halting biodiversity loss, the other major environmental threat to our planet.
deforestation has now become a major issue in international negotiations on both climate change and biodiversity.
this proposal is already under discussion and is being further developed in the ongoing international climate change negotiations.
these commitments will also be implemented through the european commission's policy on sustainable consumption and production.
this policy aims to stimulate the development and demand for sustainable products or services, including timber and wood-based products from forests managed sustainably.
the longer-term effects are even more serious, as commissioner dimas indicated, since deforestation, of which illegal logging is a major driver, accounts for nearly one fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions.
with the copenhagen climate conference now on the horizon, credible eu action on illegal logging is ever more important.
it makes sense, then, that all the work that has gone into establishing those systems does not go to waste and that we do not create unnecessary extra administrative burdens; that is far from being our intention.
i have heard directly from industry how much they appreciate not only the fact that the committee on the environment’s report provides them with much greater clarity on what will be expected of them, but also precisely this fairer and more effective sharing of responsibility across the different parts of the supply chain which i have just described.
having heard again your comments, commissioner, on the environment committee’s report, i am afraid i do maintain my view that the commission’s proposal as it stands is disappointing and weak and simply will not do what it claims to do.
in the last 10 years i have heard many criticisms of it, including the lack of a level playing field, insufficient stakeholder involvement, inadequate balancing of economic, social and environmental imperatives and too much by way of micro-management from the centre.
instead, we have a common fisheries policy that has been an environmental disaster already.
the report as it stands is far from perfect, but we believe that we have made substantial gains for energy consumers in the european union.
we have put the issue of energy poverty onto the european agenda for the very first time and we have ensured the independence of the national regulatory authorities and given them an increased role to police the new system.
it is a scandalous waste of taxpayers’ resources.
somewhere in europe, at any given moment, there is surplus electricity, and breaking down national barriers will substantially reduce our dependence on imported energy sources.
we were, until two years ago, the eu’s only net energy producer.
a common energy policy could end up being for us like the common fisheries policy, one where we are the only country putting a substantial amount into the common pot, from which all others are then drawing on an equal basis.
it is a shame that the postal market and the energy market, in particular, have lagged behind in this respect.
and, i guess, if you are going to talk about nuclear safety and how we provide energy for the future, we would want it to be provided as safely as possible and disposed of as safely as possible.
but, equally, i voted for this mainly because i want there to be more nuclear power provided in the future – more in the uk – because i am sick to death of seeing windmills and wind turbines pop up across beautiful parts of the european countryside, which add nothing to any of our national grids – in fact they cause extra harm to the national grids – and do not provide renewable energy: they just provide a slightly alternative energy for a short period of time.
i am all for nuclear safety and all for nuclear energy.
i am pleased that operators will also have to comply with sustainability criteria and laws on indigenous peoples.
− efforts must be taken to halt the trade in illegally harvested timber and timber products being placed on the eu market, in the interests of effective competition, sustainable development and protecting global biodiversity and the environment.
the measures will combine increased energy efficiency with lower costs.
energy-efficient smartmeters will also be introduced.
− the greatest failing of the single market is the failure to establish a single market in energy.
national energy policies have led europe to a dead end with an extreme dependence on expensive imported fossil fuels.
there is neither a european energy grid nor a strategic energy storage policy.
as a matter of urgency we must diversify our energy supply, reduce consumption, encourage low-carbon energy and establish a stable competitive internal market.
i support the increased provisions for consumer rights and welcome the recognition of energy poverty as a serious social problem.
i remain uneasy about the non-binding nature of the eu agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
ultimately we can only secure a single energy market if we have a european regulator with real powers.
− i welcome this report as a necessary adjunct to the type approval for the general safety of motor vehicles legislation approved earlier this year, which is mainly concerned with environmental and safety standards for tyres.
reducing fuel consumption will be of great benefit to the consumer at a time of increasing austerity but it will also reduce co2 emissions and contribute to the eu’s ambitious goals in climate change reduction.
the eu’s common external energy security policy, which british conservatives fully support, acknowledges the importance of new trans-caspian pipeline routes for supplying europe with oil and gas.
reducing our dependence on russia’s energy supplies is crucial to our collective energy security and foreign policy.
− the common fisheries policy is deeply flawed, and has been extremely detrimental to the british economy, and to the environment.
− the common fisheries policy is deeply flawed, and has been extremely detrimental to the british economy and to the environment.
temporary cabotage also allows us to end the environmental nonsense of hgvs travelling hundreds of kilometres empty, without distorting domestic markets.
mr president, another package of reports to keep eu committees busy, more pollution into a sea of unnecessary regulations.
i therefore congratulate all those who have been involved in coming to a sensible, just and sustainable consensus.
even in a recession time, we are forecasting something like a 55% increase between now and 2020 on freight and 35% on passenger cars, etc, and with that, of course, energy increases.
written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by ulrich stockmann, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1692/2006 establishing the second ‘marco polo’ programme for the granting of community financial assistance to improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system (‘marco polo ii’) (com(2008)0847 - c6-0482/2008 - 2008/0239(cod)) (a6-0217/2009).
the next item is the report by john bowis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the application of patients’ rights in cross-border health care (com(2008)0414 – c6-0257/2008 – 2008/0142(cod)) (a6-0233/2009).
then i pick up a report like this and i discover that eur 1.6 billion of european taxpayers’ money has been spent on this edifice that is the european parliament, then i discover that eur 9.3 million has been lavished upon the political parties in the european parliament, and then i look and see a reaffirmation of a commitment to a 30% reduction in carbon emissions by 2020, but not a single mention of the most outrageous emission of all – that which flows from the unnecessary travel to this place, 12 times a year.
it is quite right for us to be talking about energy efficiency.
how can we talk about the energy efficiency of buildings when we continue to operate out of two parliament chambers, one here in strasbourg and one in brussels?
what about the co2 emissions of the parliament in strasbourg, when we are talking about tens of thousands of tons of co2 emissions every year?
− i accept the need to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, and i am persuaded that the eu can play a positive role in this respect.
in fact, i think this report does not attach enough importance to the energy efficiency of buildings in the wider context of addressing environmental concerns such as climate change.
making buildings more energy efficient is relatively simple, relatively low cost and relatively beneficial.
making buildings more energy efficient would also have a massive positive impact on carbon emissions in the eu.
however, the european commission has consistently sidelined energy efficiency as a flagship policy in favour of hammering the motor industry.
i am convinced that making car manufacturers the scapegoats for climate change is a deeply flawed and counterproductive policy.
this crisis could largely have been averted with a more balanced eu environmental policy that attached appropriate importance to the energy efficiency of buildings.
− i welcome the initiative to ensure the effectiveness of energy performance of buildings.
clearly there is a balance to be had between the necessity of action to prohibit co2 emissions where we can, and economic costs.
the idea of energy certification of such buildings is one of the key issues which can help drive consumption in an informed way.
setting up an agency to oversee the charter of fundamental rights was a colossal waste of taxpayers’ money and an exercise in vanity.
– mr president, the g20 was a massively missed opportunity for tackling both the environmental crisis and the economic crisis at the same time – in other words for introducing what we are calling a ‘green new deal’.
that meeting should have been the moment for a massive investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency, for example, not just because we have to urgently address the challenge of climate change, but because investment in green technologies is one of the best ways of getting people back to work.
green energy, for example, is far more jobs-rich than investment in business as usual, yet the package agreed by the g20 will actually lock the world into a high-carbon economy at exactly the time that we should be shifting to a very different low-carbon sustainable economy.
the communiqué’s words about climate change and the low-carbon economy were relegated to just two paragraphs at the end of the communiqué, with no specific commitments.
it is a tragedy that, at the very moment when the economic system and the global environment are on a collision course, this crucial opportunity to change direction and to make sure that we tackle both of those crises and get people back to work was lost.
question no 10 by avril doyle (h-0145/09) subject: outcome of the spring council on financing a global climate deal in light of last week's spring summit, is the presidency satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations which took place on providing financial assistance to developing countries to further a global climate change deal at the cop-15 in copenhagen this december?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
i am a civil engineer by background and it was a privilege to do the opinion on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy.
this kind of profiling is a waste of resources.
i think two things came out strongly: first of all, the fact that so-called ‘security’ measures can create insecurity and, secondly, that they can be a waste, instead of a targeting, of resources.
similarly, a tribunal in tanzania has been prosecuting those responsible for the rwandan genocide of 1994. we therefore know the potential of such courts to help war-torn regions by ending a climate of impunity and moving on.
in the battle for better energy conservation and more efficient energy use, i think we all want to see more energy-efficient products.
when we talk about energy efficiency, we should make sure that we put our own house in order.
that clearly shows that we ourselves are not walking the walk when it comes to energy efficiency.
it is time to put the battle for energy efficiency at the forefront.
regular collection and dissemination of data on the use of pesticides should help increase awareness and control of pesticide use, and play a small but significant role in ensuring that pesticides are safe both to human health and the environment, whilst avoiding the concerns expressed about the previous package.
it is difficult when you are in gibraltar not to see, and occasionally smell, the smoke and pollution from the refineries adjacent to the border, and the concern is that these are the causes of the cancer clusters.
what we would like to see is a joint investigation on both sides and jointly agreed terms of reference, to try and alleviate the worries and concerns that people on both sides of the border have about the problems of pollution and its consequences.
therefore, there will remain the need for seals to be hunted to ensure the sustainability of fisheries in some area.
secondly, because of the importance of sustainable marine resources and how that issue is going to be dealt with.
written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by luis de grandes pascual, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2005/35/ec on ship-source pollution and on the introduction of penalties for infringements (com(2008)0134 – c6-0142/2008 – 2008/0055(cod)) (a6-0080/2009).
because the fund is not about simply bailing out companies – it is about supporting a strategy which will lead to sustainable growth and employment for the future.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety voted to bring forward the date for garages to comply with new measures to limit the amount of petrol vapour released into the atmosphere when cars are refuelled.
targeting small independent garages in this way would have a knock-on effect on other local businesses, generate hardly any environmental benefits and potentially increase exhaust emissions if drivers have to drive further away to refuel when a local station has closed.
europe’s environment remains in peril as climate chaos draws ever closer and voters must see that the european union can lead the fight back.
– mr president, i want to pick up on certain of the aspects from the employment side of things – and not least the context, given that the spring summit was at one time supposed to be the ‘sustainable development summit’ – and to link that with the commission document from late last year on new skills and new jobs.
that document mentioned how the transition to low-carbon economies would have an important impact on employment.
we need to invest to create smart green jobs in the knowledge-driven, low-carbon economy.
furthermore, in my letters to the environment commissioner (10.1.2008) and the commission president (22.5.2008) i have drawn attention to the urgent need to draw up a communication devoted specially and exclusively to the effective management of responses to earthquakes.
question no 25 by avril doyle (h-0211/09) subject: solar thermal electricity and the economic recovery plan in a bid to tackle the serious energy and economic challenges facing the european union, in its recovery package the commission has proposed measures designed to contribute to both economic recovery and energy objectives.
however, solar thermal electricity (ste) - one of the most promising renewable energy sources - is not included in the list of sectors which stand to benefit.
question no 26 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0218/09) subject: nuclear power stations according to the institute of energy of south east europe, many eu countries and other countries from southern and eastern regions and eastern mediterranean countries engaged in accession negotiations are examining schemes to extend or construct nuclear power stations to generate electricity.
question no 27 by brian crowley (h-0232/09) subject: promoting sustainable energy in cities in my own home city of cork, local authorities and businesses are striving towards the creation of sustainable energy policies.
what is the commission doing to support cities like cork in their efforts to promote sustainable energy?
additionally, how will the commission ensure that the promotion of open trade is balanced with the eu's development priorities, such as core labour standards and environmental sustainability?
in fact, canada’s copyright act is in urgent need of revision in order to bring it into line with current international standards of protection in the on-line environment, such as those laid down in the wipo internet treaties of 1996 and the eu copyright directive (2001/29/ec).
the european economic recovery measures before us constitute an important package, and i applaud the strong emphasis on green jobs and technologies that will help reduce our carbon emissions and promote energy security.
i am also, naturally, very pleased that my own country will be receiving up to eur 500 million of financing to promote offshore wind energy and carbon capture and storage projects.
this is an important condition for creating a favourable business environment for firms, even more so in the current economic context.
– mr president, mr churchill said: ‘never waste a crisis’.
well, we have a crisis today of the economy, of climate, of international instability, and it is clear to us, at least, in our group, that these crises greatly strengthen the argument for granting the eu an enhanced capacity to act globally.
mr president, in the current economic climate, i think it is crucial that we do everything in our power to support those members of society who wish to contribute to our economy.
mr president, knowing me and knowing you, i know that the focus of my group, to invest in energy efficiency and support attempts to create smart cities represents a fantastic opportunity for all of us and presents a vision for the future.
combined with provisions on energy security, reduction of emissions and job creation, this report takes a holistic approach that will represent the best way for an economy to thrive in the future.
the positives are obvious: helping carriers, especially the large national flag carriers, through the present economic downturn; also, not being able to fly empty planes to fulfil slot obligations is good for the environment.
ukip people do not write that kind of stuff, and they do not waste their pens on the kind of person that says that kind of thing.
but i honestly have to say that it is difficult for the seven members who have been elected to represent gibraltar to do full justice over the range of issues that come to us: human rights, whistle-blowing, pensions, cross-border pollution and, of course, bilateral relations with spain.
as well as the fact that the new swedish presidency will continue to fulfil the two main tasks that have occupied us: tackling the impact of the global economic crisis and continuing on energy and energy security issues.
as you know, the czech republic has expressed its main presidency priorities as three 'e's: economy, energy and the european union in the world.
a number of important achievements were also made in the non-legislative field, including the handling of the foreign policy and energy crises at the beginning of the year, the rejection of protectionist tendencies, decisive measures to support the european economy and steps towards diversifying energy supplies and climate protection, and the outcome of negotiations with the european union's key partners.
the positive message from the spring european council was the compromise reached on a €5 billion package for energy projects, broadband internet and measures related to the verification of the functioning of the common agricultural policy.
energy, the second priority of the czech presidency.
it has been put to the test in the first days of the czech presidency and has shown that it is not good to solve the problems of energy crises in an ad hoc way every time a crisis knocks on the door once every six months or at another time, but that we must take systemic measures in the european union to make the european union energy resilient and secure.
under our presidency, we have taken steps to strengthen energy security, focusing on activities leading to deeper diversification of energy sources and transport routes through the so-called southern corridor.
the energy efficiency support provided by the revision of the european regional development fund regulation also makes a significant contribution to energy security.
this will allow for the financing of investments in energy efficiency and the use of renewable resources in residential buildings.
this is a step towards a swedish presidency which has energy efficiency as one of its main priorities.
last but not least, the march and june councils fully confirmed that it is not good to give up on its ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and on the financing of mitigation and adaptation measures in developing countries.
we have also set clear priorities and targets to be met before the un climate change conference in copenhagen in december this year, so that the european union can defend its position as a leader in climate protection.
there is the fight against climate change and the transition to a green and sustainable economy, which indicates the political horizon to be reached.
i welcome the deepening of the internal energy market and the internal transport market.
we have had to deal with the gas crisis between ukraine and russia, which has again highlighted the need for europe to strengthen its energy security.
it is a europe that offers maximum opportunities to its citizens; a europe that builds on its continental dimension and draws full benefit from the potential of its internal market, so crucial for consumers and for small and medium-sized companies; a europe of knowledge and innovation; a europe that respects the environment and ensures its energy security; a europe that reaches out to other global actors in a spirit of partnership in order to tackle shared challenges together.
– madam president, the czech presidency has followed a depressingly familiar pattern: continuity, more of the same, the continuing obsession with climate change and the continuing drive to have new legislation.
judged against the potential for environmental improvement, its record has been shameful.
it made an agreement with us to reduce its co2 emissions and then reneged on it.
currently it is trying to wriggle out of legal requirements that it uses air-conditioning coolants with a much lower global-warming potential than those used at present, and already it is lobbying to try and weaken the commission’s proposals on co2 emissions from vans and light commercial vehicles.
we need the industry to recognise that it has obligations to society as a whole and that its future is inextricably linked to environmental improvement.
the swiss can be in the european environment agency, if they wish, in the eu’s film and education programmes, and they can apply for eu research grants.
you have pushed on with your obsession with climate change, which has led to massive cost and no material benefits whatsoever.
if the european union is to effectively support us through the economic crisis, lead the way as it must in fighting climate change, protect public services, defend human rights and contribute to international peace and disarmament, then it needs the input of all of us, and that includes wales, scotland, catalonia, corsica, flanders and many others.
unemployment is on the increase wherever we look, and we are just weeks away from a crucial global summit on climate change.
on the issue of climate change, it is the case that the eu has shown leadership in international negotiations in this area and it must continue to do so.
i welcome the emphasis president barroso has placed on the need to show how fighting climate change can help to modernise our economies.
i especially agree with him on his charter for sustainable economic activity.
we all know the problems to do with the environment of the baltic sea and the specific economic difficulties of the area.
– madam president, tajikistan is not blessed with the energy and mineral resources of other countries in central asia.
central asia is a region vital to the eu’s political and energy security.
i call on the commission to take short-term measures to help: measures that will increase demand for milk; measures that will cut the cost of production; measures that will address the supply chain with its decreasing farm-gate prices and high supermarket prices; and measures that in the long term will create a sustainable industry and a future for young farmers who are experiencing severe difficulties with low prices and high bank charges.
firstly, complacency over energy policy is putting us increasingly in the dangerous position of dependency on russia.
needless to say, many of us will vote against any endorsement of the lisbon treaty or further efforts to take forward political integration on the back of the various energy concerns of our countries.
for the success of this pipeline, turkish cooperation is essential, yet the opening of the energy chapter in eu negotiations with turkey is being blocked.
clearly, sustainable, diverse sources of energy supply require a greater commitment to nuclear energy and in that respect i agree with our colleague mr van baalen.
mr president, we have three great challenges in this area – security of energy supply, the inefficiency of our internal market in energy and the imperative of combating climate change.
if we can convince member states of the political need for greater energy independence, and stop berlin and paris from undercutting it at every turn, nabucco can help us diversify our supply of oil and gas.
we need to develop renewable energy production – solar thermal and other.
our energy provision will continue to rely on oil and nuclear power but, as we prepare for the world climate change conference in copenhagen, the only big idea is the switch to renewables.
deserts get more energy from the sun in six hours than humankind uses in a year.
commissioner, you said this is not part of our strategy for security of energy supply.
mr president, i want to thank the commissioner for reminding this house that there is also a demand side to energy security.
this autumn we are seeking agreement with the council on a package of energy efficient measures.
forty per cent of the energy we use is consumed in buildings, so it matters a great deal for the future of energy security that we set high standards of efficiency for both new and existing buildings.
i hope that member states in the council will support the parliament’s proposals, which are designed to put a stop to the utter waste of energy which is currently used in heating, cooling and lighting.
mr president, europe’s future depends on securing energy.
it is critical at this time to be building greater trust and deeper ties with countries who will be our energy partners, including middle eastern and north african states.
unfortunately, some member states – including my own – have not used the recent past to prepare a coherent energy strategy.
whilst we must look outward for future energy supplies, member states must also make the best use of the resources and potential they already have.
mr president, the ecr group supports the need for an eu common external energy security policy based on solidarity between member states, but energy mix must remain a member state competence.
i welcome investment in renewables, including the desertec solar project, which combat climate change as well as aid diversification.
we also need better energy efficiency – though the recent eu ban on incandescent light bulbs is draconian, ignores the health hazards to the skin and the environment from the mercury, and makes the eu needlessly unpopular in my country.
mr president, i welcome the text put forward today by the various political groups and the earlier statement by the commissioner, particularly the recognition of the need to diversify our energy technology and to secure our supply.
energy efficiency must also be improved.
that is why i believe we should be spending more of european structural funds on energy efficiency measures to save energy, but also to boost the economy.
we were gradually moving, in the european union, away from the system of direct support that had such deleterious environmental and economic consequences, and now we are rushing back in.
however, from a british perspective, efforts to achieve a more coherent eu approach to energy security do not require the lisbon treaty or the extension of european commission competence.
i regret also the failure to make any reference to nuclear energy among the mix of sustainable and diverse energy supply sources that will be required in the coming years.
energy security is first and foremost the responsibility of our own governments.
the calamity that has affected taiwan may well become more commonplace, both in taiwan and around the world, as a result of climate change.
it is therefore essential that taiwan, as an island vulnerable to such meteorological phenomena and as a major global industrial power, is enabled to participate meaningfully and with dignity in appropriate international organisations, not least those related to weather and climate change.
in particular, taiwan should be allowed to participate in the united nations framework convention for climate change and the world meteorological organisation.
and just when the major issues of the day need more cooperation, not less, issues such as climate change, how we tackle the financial crisis and how we deal with rising unemployment, just then the tories have decided that britain is going to be isolated and at the margins of the eu.
well done to the european union, because, with your obsession with the unscientific cult of man-made climate change, what you are doing is proving sir edward’s unfortunate prophecy to be correct.
it is worth noting that we have had 77 airline bankruptcies in the european union since 2000 and, in the sad but likely event that some more may follow in this tough economic climate, we believe it is imperative that we use this question tonight to at least open up the debate now about how we can best protect consumers and air travellers in the european union.
the money is largely directed towards developing sustainable economic growth and creating jobs.
mr president, i always thought being an mep was a waste of time, but this really takes the biscuit here this evening.
second, a hysterical obsession with man-made global warming.
the global-warming fixation is a classic example of how the political class here is out of touch with the little people who have to pay the bills.
while the eu backs the copenhagen proposals to further the deindustrialisation of the west and the corporate domination of the third world, a growing majority of ordinary people regard climate change as an elite scam – an excuse to tax and control us and to impose internationalist dogma and global government at the expense of the nation state.
man-made global warming is an unproven theory based on manipulative statistics.
before the political class and the green industrial complex dare to impose a single new tax, poisoned light bulb or useless wind farm on the ordinary taxpayer, they need to try to convince the public that global warming is man-made, that returning to the warmer climate of medieval times would be a bad thing and that there is something that europe – as opposed to the united states, china and india – can actually do about it.
mr president, it is critical for an international consensus to be reached on tackling climate change and global warming.
the us, the world’s biggest economy, has failed to agree to specific greenhouse gas emission reductions for 2020, and many other developed industrialised nations are uncertain as to whether the ambitious actions required are possible.
the establishment of an effective global carbon market is crucial, as is international consensus if we are to avoid the risk of protectionist measures relating to co2 emissions within the eu.
although individual states in the us have begun to tackle climate change, there is a woeful lack of leadership from the federal government.
the whole thing is a sham – this bogus hypothesis, this ridiculous nonsense that man-made co2 is causing global warming.
it was almost a carbon copy speech.
in fact, in a recent survey more than two thirds of europeans said that climate change was a very serious issue, and 20% said it was a fairly serious issue.
the opinion polls show that people in europe do care about climate change and they do understand.
last night in the environment committee, members voted by 55 to 1 to back an ambitious negotiating position of the european union in copenhagen.
cows are becoming a rare commodity in northern kenya because of climate change.
we will never make poverty history unless we tackle climate change, and this house has a duty to respond to that call.
madam president, the climate change conference in copenhagen in december presents us with a unique opportunity to address this massive and huge problem.
if we consider the consequences of global warming, it is obvious that the developing world is paying the price for environmental damage caused by the richer nations.
climate change is not the only environmental problem we face but it is imperative that we attempt to address it in copenhagen.
all countries must play their part in terms of achieving targets and sustainable development.
i am, though, glowing hot in my opposition to the concept of man-made climate change.
carbon dioxide accounts for only 0.038% of our atmosphere and only 4% of that is influenced by man’s activity.
the alarmist and incorrect statements that suggest any increase in carbon dioxide will create significant rises in sea levels is being used as an excuse by local authorities not to maintain low-cost wooden sea defences.
madam president, i will keep my co2 emissions down and i will be brief.
we need agreement and achievement now because climate change is placing poverty reduction at risk.
we have heard the climate change deniers here in this house.
climate change kills.
let us be clear – member states should maintain their 0.7% of gni for development and cap any use of that gni at 10% maximum, and then bring in the additional funds needed to combat and defeat climate change.
madam president, i am concerned that the commission’s calculations on international climate finance are just smoke and mirrors.
first, it has claimed that 90% of energy efficiency measures can be financed by developing countries themselves.
in the eu the biggest obstacle to introducing energy efficiency measures for both governments and for individual citizens is the lack of upfront financing.
also, the idea that the international carbon market can fund eur 38 billion a year is unrealistic.
we have seen how slow the eu ets carbon market has been to get off the ground and how badly the carbon price has been thrown off course by the economic crisis.
it is likely to be many decades before there is a properly functioning international carbon market, so we need a new and additional financing measure now.
these glaciers are retreating fast because of black carbon coming largely from industrialisation, but also from fossil-fuel-powered generators in use in agriculture, and will deprive billions of people of water for both drinking and irrigation.
however, let us accept for the moment that man-made emissions are a bad thing for various reasons.
why, then, does the british labour party support aggressive and illegal wars that not only kill british soldiers, iraqis, afghans and, in the future, iranians, but also produce vast increases in global emissions?
madam president, there has been much talk in this chamber this morning about developing countries playing their part in tackling climate change, and that is indeed true.
however, i would not like to leave this house without saying that, in areas like my own in northern ireland, areas of high energy costs, there also needs to be some work done to take account of those who are disadvantaged – where there are high levels of fuel poverty amongst disadvantaged people, where we have an economic base which relies on small business – when considering the costs of tackling climate change.
just coming back to this idea of the level market entry strategy, would you agree that spending aimed at effectively reducing unemployment should not be seen as an additional burden on public finances but as a way to guarantee sustainability?
hitherto the creation of wealth and the measure of well being have been based largely on consumption, and so industry has been encouraged to pay little attention to the real value of raw materials used, even if their price is low, or to the real cost of waste produced.
– mr president, may i first of all congratulate the swedish government on its presidency in general and particularly on the way it has attempted to advance the very important issues of climate change and dealing with the economic and financial crisis that faces us.
the lisbon agenda has a noble objective: an objective of creating the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs, greater social cohesion and respect for the environment by 2010. now that should have made a real difference in the lives of millions of people and provided a firm foundation for our economic future and yet, as mr reinfeldt himself said, the lisbon agenda has been a failure.
and institutional changes do not help with climate changes.
despite all this, i do hope that the swedish presidency is able, in the time remaining to it, and indeed at the summit, to focus the attention of all european leaders on the major issues that concern the people – those issues they concentrated upon at the start of their presidency regarding the economy, europe and indeed climate change.
mr president, the swedish presidency and the commission both refer to the importance of an eu agreement on the financing of climate change measures for developing countries.
mr barroso said just now that the carbon market in emerging countries will cover most of the eur 100 billion a year estimated cost of climate change mitigation and adaptation.
but there is no certainty that the international carbon market will deliver eur 38 billion a year in financial flow to developing countries.
we have seen how unstable the carbon price has been in the eu ets and how long it is taking for a proper carbon market to emerge.
a further major flaw is the assumption that developing and emerging countries will be happy to fund their own energy efficiency measures.
what is blocking energy efficiency in our own member states is the lack of up-front funding mechanisms, yet we are assuming that developing countries can find their own money.
a european diplomatic college is a waste of money and would become another burden on the taxpayer.
we also remain in debt to the usa for its contribution to nato, which is based on our shared democratic values, and we welcome america’s belated commitment to fighting climate change.
question 5 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0316/09) subject: environmental aspect of gas pipelines in the european union, much attention is being paid to the environmental aspects of the new pipelines being constructed to transport gas to the eu (nabucco, nord stream and south stream).
the nord stream gas pipeline, which runs along the floor of the baltic sea, is an exceptional project on account of its size and its potential environmental impact on the baltic region.
in the opinion of the swedish presidency, what dangers does the construction of gas pipelines pose to the environment, and what measures can be taken to eliminate those dangers?
specifically, we have voted against funding for the committee of the regions, and we have supported moves to scrap some of the most profligate budget lines such as tobacco subsidies, as well as a number of other lines regarding agricultural subsidies and schemes, and waste in administration.
specifically, we have voted against funding for the committee of the regions, and have supported moves to reduce some of the most profligate budget lines regarding agricultural subsidies and schemes, and waste in administration.
– mr president, may i first congratulate the swedish presidency on progress at the recent summit in developing the european union’s position on climate change.
tackling climate change is one of our highest priorities and is the kind of issue where we expect and want the european union to take a strong lead.
the eu’s commitment to diversification of source and supply under a common external energy security policy must surely strengthen our hand at the negotiating table with russia.
madam president, in the last two months i have suffered victimisation by the uk labour regime, including withdrawal of my house of commons pass, refusal to allow me to enter the sellafield nuclear processing plant – despite my position on a subcommittee of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety – and the refusal of the citizens’ advice bureau to sell me an information database openly advertised for sale to all other meps.
even the floods which are devastating parts of my region in cockermouth and workington, where we have had the highest rainfall on record, are nothing special; they cannot be specifically attributed to climate change, although they are in line with the science.
it is hard to take the political decisions necessary when there is doubt about whether climate change is taking place.
we have to take a step back; we have to recognise that during the course of one lifetime the human population has quadrupled and our use of fossil fuels, our energy consumption, has grown enormously.
perhaps, as our atmosphere retains the same depth, we also must wonder whether climate change should not be taking place faster than it is.
i think it is important to recognise that climate change is not a religion.
there has been a downplaying of the ambitions for copenhagen, but if you had heard minister carlgren at the committee on the environment, public health and food safety yesterday, you would have heard no such downplaying.
mr president, everyone agrees that climate change is the biggest challenge facing humanity: that is the constant claim of the political elite, and it is a lie.
thousands of scientists dispute the very existence of man-made global warming, citing natural cyclical changes that saw vineyards in roman northern england and a swedish army march over the frozen baltic to copenhagen in 1658. as an army of global-warming zealots marches to copenhagen, the truth is that their orwellian consensus is based not on scientific agreement, but on bullying, censorship and fraudulent statistics.
climate change is their new theology, a secular religious hysteria complete with pope – al gore – carbon-credit indulgences and the persecution of heretics.
climate change is being used to impose an anti-human utopia as deadly as anything conceived by stalin or mao.
it seems that the british people are onto this, because a recent opinion poll in the times newspaper clearly shows that the british people no longer believe in so-called man-made global warming.
this week we have also had the spectacle of one of the leading climate-research centres in the uk, which advises the government, being caught altering data and stifling debate.
this morning the bbc is reporting that the white house is saying that it will come to copenhagen with targets for cutting us emissions.
but copenhagen will just be the beginning, because when we come back from copenhagen we in europe will have to continue our work to cut our emissions.
we have got to keep investing in energy efficiency, in renewables and in low-carbon technology.
i am very pleased that last week we agreed as a european union that there will be investment in technologies like carbon capture and storage, and that one of those plants will come to my constituency in yorkshire, at hatfield.
finally, i hope that this house will vote for a good resolution on climate change, and i hope we will reject the amendments put down by members of the house on the opposite side who seem to want to water down our commitments.
they want to reduce our targets and they want to offset more of our emissions.
if we are serious about climate change, if we want a good deal, we have to vote those amendments down.
the eu climate package passed in december 2008 was important in showing the seriousness of our commitment to climate change, and what has been agreed in recent months under the swedish presidency has also been important - particularly the recast energy performance of buildings directive, which will slash the carbon footprint of both new and renovated buildings.
it is a startling fact that the us, despite not having passed legislation, has committed more than usd 100 billion to clean-energy spending and china has pledged usd 200 billion in its economic stimulus plan, whereas the eu commitment is little more than usd 50 billion.
madam president, there is a new film on climate change called the age of stupid.
it is set in 2055 and focuses on a lone survivor of climate catastrophe.
partly it is because we do not talk enough about the benefits of shifting to a post-carbon world – the millions of jobs in green energy, the better-insulated homes, the improved public transport.
yet even the most ambitious target the eu is currently proposing – a 30% cut by 2020 – will give us only a 50/50 chance of avoiding the worst of climate change.
madam president, in my english constituency this week it was discovered that scientists from the university of east anglia were allegedly manipulating data to try and prove man-made global warming.
it is clear now that the scientific consensus on man-made global warming is fast eroding: 30 000 sceptical scientists in the manhattan declaration; 600 scientists in a us senate report; even german scientists this year writing to chancellor angela merkel.
carbon capture and storage can make a significant contribution to efforts aimed at tackling global warming and my own country, scotland, will play an important role in developing the necessary technology.
question 26 by marc tarabella (h-0377/09) subject: information on energy prices for consumers the commission recently opened the second meeting of the ‘citizens’ energy forum’ in london.
in her statement, the commissioner for consumer protection emphasised how important it is for energy consumers to have gas or electricity bills – the best indicator of energy consumption – that are simple and accurate and that allow comparisons between providers.
going beyond these major annual public events, can the commission indicate specifically how it intends to compel energy producers and distributors to meet this objective, which is essential for citizens, despite having refused to adopt the energy consumers’ charter proposed by parliament?
if i can follow up the question: we know there is huge potential for energy saving in domestic households.
clarification is an area in which the european commission could make a genuine difference which i think would be welcomed by people everywhere and would provide some significant assistance to us in trying to reduce our global warming emissions.
our citizens can see that our economies are in crisis, that unemployment is rising, that businesses are finding it harder to generate growth, that climate change is getting worse and that other parts of the world are becoming increasingly and dramatically more competitive.
the european union must now move on and concentrate on the real work at hand, in building dynamic and competitive economies and in creating a strong global trading system and, specifically during the course of the weeks ahead, in securing a really effective agreement on climate change.
and many regional governments, like the government in wales, have been leading the way in adopting radical policies to combat climate change.
in my region, the conservatives are represented by roger helmer, who describes man-made climate change as a myth.
despite the claims of the tory leader, david cameron, that they are a party of the environment, helmer represents the danger and unreliability of conservative environmental policy.
we need action at all levels, which involves reducing the amount of carbon we produce to at least 2%.
i support those like our prime minister, who has pledged to cut carbon emissions by 80% by 2050. the labour government in the uk wants a deal that is ambitious, effective and fair and to support the poorest countries to cut their emissions and adapt to climate change.
any climate-financing agreed must be additional to existing development aid targets and it must not come from existing budgets.
any funding agreed at copenhagen needs to deal specifically with the effects of climate change on the developing world and should not replace other valuable aid flows.
i cannot be alone in being alarmed at the way in which the environmental agenda is being piggybacked by those who have a different agenda about the shifting of power away from national democracies.
however, closer examination reveals that almost a quarter of co2 emissions come from road transport and that tyres play a significant role in determining fuel efficiency.
this proposed legislation therefore plays an important part in wider eu efforts to tackle global warming.
− in the resolution adopted by the ep, a specific chapter stresses the great importance of regions and local authorities in the consultation, information and implementation of the climate policy.
several regional or sub-state governments are leading the way on radical policies to fight climate change.
as members of the european free alliance representing european nations and regions, we fully support the direct involvement of sub-state bodies and regional governments in the promotion of sustainable development and the efficient response to climate change.
in this context, the work of the network of regional governments for sustainable development (nrg4sd) has to be underlined.
this network has already set up a partnership with the united nations development programme and the united nations environment programme.
across the north sea, in a country of similar size, the scottish government is making a vital contribution to climate change efforts.
according to the official website of the copenhagen summit, scotland has taken on ‘world leadership on climate protection’.
– mr president, violence against women, especially in the domestic environment, is an issue that needs to be debated and i congratulate the chair of the femm committee for bringing it to the forefront.
written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on smoke-free environments by edite estrela, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, (o-0119/2009 – b7-0225/2009).
with world population predicted to rise to over nine billion and climate change predicted to have a major impact on our ability to feed ourselves, food security is, i would argue, a major issue that we must confront and address and find solutions to.
the european union must do all it can to help developing countries to develop sustainable farming and food production systems that enable them to feed themselves.
we are facing a situation whereby, on one hand, the world’s population is growing, while, on the other, food production is proving to be an ever more challenging endeavour owing to the negative effects of climate change and rising costs associated with food production.
but, at the same time, agriculture is being asked to do it using less land, less water, less energy, less greenhouse gases.
here in the western world we are addicted to eating meat: a massive waste of resources.
the extent of hypocrisy on the matter of foreign beef exportations is made even more apparent in the context of climate change discussions.
whilst we are told we must commit to an ambitious climate change agenda, the eu turns a blind eye to the fact that the brazilian beef export industry is responsible for 80% of deforestation in the amazon rainforest.
madam president, my region of south-west england is blessed with a particular blend of climate and landscape which produces good grazing and excellent beef.
only this week we see that this parliament will be entertaining the vegetarian lobby, claiming that meat eaters and, by association, farmers, are climate criminals.
they give an adverse opinion on 43% of the budget, the part that relates to cohesion funds, research, energy and transport, external aid, development and enlargement.
− the ukip is not opposed to cooperation in the field of energy efficiency, but insists that such cooperation must be conducted by democratically elected governments and not by their unaccountable proxies in an anti-democratic supranational organisation such as the eu.
i would like to see a market-driven solution supported by member states, a solution where the industry self-regulates with a code of practice, taking the lead in environmental agendas.
i think, rather than waste the time of members, it might be good.
we are in major danger of over-bureaucracy, red tape and legislation strangling our farmers; you will see that on 1 january when you implement the cpid, which in my opinion is a total waste of time.
this is just a waste of taxpayers’ money.
mr president, we are all aware of the remaining eur 2.4 billion for the european economic recovery plan that has been committed in the 2010 budget, and i welcome the attempt to get europe through this difficult economic climate in this regard.
this is due to an eu target reduction of 20% of carbon emissions.
thanks to the carbon credit, corus can no longer afford to employ over 5 000 steel workers, including suppliers.
the real gain to corus from stopping production on teesside is the saving it will make in its carbon allowances allocated by the eu under its emissions trading system scheme, which will be worth up to gbp 600 million over the next three years.
i have spoken in this chamber repeatedly of the need to reinvigorate the lisbon strategy; the european union has for far too long pursued political and institutional reform with a degree of energy and determination which it has simply been unable to muster for economic reform.
part of this economic regeneration will be the greening of our economies, and we all hope that an agreement in copenhagen this week will draw up a realistic framework to tackle climate change whilst facilitating economic growth and development.
we seek independent status so that our nations can contribute to european council meetings and to world events such as the copenhagen conference on climate change.
the government and the parliament of scotland have adopted the world’s most ambitious climate change act, with emission-reduction targets of 42% by 2020 and 80% by 2050. these are targets which we mean to achieve, and yet the uk government refused a reasonable request for a scottish minister to be part of the official proceedings in copenhagen.
we have a food crisis, we have climate change, we have global warming, we have floods, earthquakes and all sorts of catastrophes which call for our help, and the only way we can uplift everyone is to actually increase global trade, and i am very grateful that the new trade commissioner-designate is listening to me.
question 4 by seán kelly (h-0434/09) subject: climate negotiations in copenhagen can the council give an update on the negotiations nearing conclusion in copenhagen?
question 5 by gay mitchell (h-0436/09) subject: climate change funding for the developing world the upcoming climate change talks in copenhagen are set to define global attitudes to climate change in the short to medium term.
it is crucial that agreement is reached and that rich countries front up the money to pay for the effects of climate change in the developing world.
the agreement reached in october at the european council summit estimated that developing countries would need eur 100 billion in order to adapt to climate change, whereas developing countries argue that the cost would be three to four times as much.
for the design and manufacture of goods), in order to create a sustainable society and eliminate the hierarchy of legal provisions on combating discrimination?
i want to make it clear that i am proud to be an advocate of low-carbon technologies to fight climate change.