a conflict that has held hostage many eu member states that are energy dependent on natural gas and has created problems for citizens, businesses and industry.
the european union's energy doctrine should therefore be reviewed in the light of the need to include other sources of energy.
the objective of reducing energy needs by 20% by 2020 cannot be achieved when the current situation is so volatile and uncertain.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by christa klaß, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the framework directive on the rational use of pesticides (06124/5/2008 c6-0323/2008 2006/0132 ((cod)) (a6-0443/2008), and - the report by hiltrud breyer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the placing of plant protection products on the market (11119/8/2008 c6-0326/2008 2006/0136 ((cod)) (a6-0444/2008)
on behalf of the pse group.
more effective control mechanisms must also be established in the new media environment.
− mr president, the commission welcomes the report prepared by ms mcguinness and the intense debate which has taken place in the various ep committees on the elements surrounding this very topical subject, which range from trade to biofuels, price monitoring, investment policy, the financial crisis, climate change and water use in agriculture.
the commission shares the broad analysis on the causes of the food crisis which hit many developing countries in the first part of 2008. the commission will continue to analyse the link between food prices and energy prices.
energy prices constitute only one of these factors but one which has both a direct and indirect impact.
even if the eu moves closer to its 10% target, the impact on food prices will be limited, in particular for two reasons: first, more and more biofuels will come from non-food feedstocks or will be made from residues or waste.
a sustainable eu biofuels policy is overall a pro-poor policy.
new challenges, such as climate change, water management, renewable energy and biodiversity, which will have an impact on developing countries, have also been addressed in it.
the future cap has to be seen in the context of a broader vision in which sustainable development, competitiveness and global food balances will form an integral part.
in order to deal with this unacceptable situation, which condemns 1 billion people to malnutrition and starvation, the report confines itself to wishes that are cancelled out by its obsession with continuing the same policy: support for the cap, its revisions and 'diagnostic control', the conclusion of the wto negotiations, the decoupling of aid from production, the continuation of the production of biofuels, under the pretext of the environment, using land that could be used for food production.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, and it is also based on the principle of the protection of the environment.
the european union countries will all, i imagine, as planned, ratify this convention by 2012. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen in the community are protected against the risks of pollution caused by the use of certain substances.
and this discussion about ukraine - and my czech colleague josef zieleniec has made it very clear - the problem is political and geopolitical, and if we don't give, i would say, ukraine a chance to fix its internal problems, if we don't actually stop the behavior of individual players, whether individuals or companies in the gas market, then we can get ukraine in its pro-european direction, which is of course a geopolitical problem, and we can only speculate about what the goals of this whole crisis are, whether it's just a short-term price increase or it's a much greater pressure to build nord stream, an alternative northern route or it's really preventing the european direction of ukraine, but anyway, these problems are interrelated and it's not just short-term and it's not just energy.
i would like to use this time to answer some concrete questions put to me, specifically on energy.
the commission said so when it presented its strategic energy review last november, and we are working flat-out to put the legislative proposal before the european parliament and the council as soon as possible.
yes, we need more solidarity and more progress in terms of energy security in europe.
that was the substance of our strategic energy review presented very recently.
i would like to use this time once again to ask all member states and european institutions to work more actively on the mechanisms of european energy solidarity.
yes, we also need to accelerate investment in energy infrastructure, interconnectors and energy efficiency.
funds are needed for energy efficiency and for energy interconnections, and by the coordination of national stimulus programmes we will align national efforts in this direction as well, in line with european council conclusions.
let me also say that getting through this economic crisis and putting europe back on the path towards sustainable growth will also require respect for community rules on equal opportunities.
the european union must take responsibility for the situation and demand that the israeli aggression be brought to an end once and for all and that it should lead the efforts towards a lasting and sustainable solution.
the prolonged failure to reach agreement is exacerbating the climate of economic uncertainty and is a blow to the very credibility of the multilateral trading system.
− madam president, it is understandable in this climate that there is concern about the success of manufacturing in the face of competition, and of course textiles are very important.
we move forward in market access, in funds from the lead market initiative, and in every free trade agreement, as causes dedicated to environmental and social standards.
− madam president, i would like to start by congratulating the committee on industry, research and energy and the rapporteur mrs laperrouze.
the strategic energy review that was proposed by the commission back in november addressed five areas where mrs laperrouze and the itre committee go into more detail and streamline these.
they are: energy efficiency; use of local resources (and i would like to mention that, for 2008, 43% of installed capacity comes from wind energy; it is the biggest capacity installed, and wind is a local energy); external relations, i.e.
i believe that one important point where the commission will make a lot of further effort is on the call in this report for the consolidation of activities in different areas, because we have really developed a lot of activities on the energy and climate change package implementation, on the technology, on external relations, on the internal market.
it is the part of the recovery package related to energy.
eur 3.5 billion is for infrastructure – it is not to support each and every project but to increase the diversification of gas flow from south, west, and east, and to try to get a balanced and sustainable gas supply mix.
then there are two issues that are sometimes seen as a luxury, but in my opinion they are extremely important issues: offshore wind – it is crucial that we have public support for the projects that are ongoing – and carbon capture and storage.
these are absolutely necessary in achieving our climate change objectives globally, but will also give a much-needed boost for european industry to develop the technology that could be used in the future.
− madam president, let me first thank mr remek and the itre committee for having worked so much on a topic which is of utmost importance, because it is true that through ict we can make a major contribution towards combating climate issues and achieving a 20% reduction in both consumption and carbon emissions.
firstly, we have been working on a communication on a comprehensive strategy for ict to address our energy and climate problems.
these actions aim to accelerate the adoption of ict as an enabler so that we can master the energy demands of our homes, of our businesses, and of our society at large.
their carbon footprint is of absolute importance and i know that the industry is working on this.
in the recovery plan proposed by the commission, public/private partnerships for r&d are high on the agenda, with one of the three initiatives we propose being energy efficient buildings, a domain where ict will of course play a predominant role.
firstly, a common european external energy policy with a focus on the security of energy sources and energy routes.
in an age when battles are fought over energy sources, we all understand the importance of this proposition.
secondly, deepening relations with other countries, firstly with energy-producing countries but also with countries through which energy routes pass, i.e.
thirdly, a new generation of energy interdependence provisions, and indeed binding ones.
the energy interdependence clauses are of great importance in our negotiations with other countries and, for example, in the negotiations in particular, since the issue of concluding a new agreement with russia to replace the one of 1997 was topical.
we have already mentioned the battle over energy sources, which is an important issue and one which leads to a diversification of energy sources and the ways in which energy reaches us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change, the need for energy security and the strengthening of the competitiveness of the economy are leading us towards the third industrial revolution, the era of our gradual decoupling from fossil fuels.
this will require every effort to reduce the energy intensity of the economy in all sectors.
one of the tools for improving energy efficiency is to exploit the potential offered by ict technologies.
significant incentives are needed to harness these technologies to increase the union's energy efficiency by 20% in the context of the trio 20, 20, 20 by 2020. the resolution we are called upon to adopt the day after tomorrow, which refers to the enhancement of energy efficiency through ict, places particular emphasis on research and development in cutting-edge technologies such as nanotechnologies and photonic technology which have a high potential for improving energy efficiency, and on the design of policies to promote the take-up of these technologies.
among a number of measures and actions, i will make special reference to green public procurement, which will enable public bodies to play a leading role in energy saving by exploiting the best technological applications of ict.
the resolution also provides incentives for intelligent and integrated energy management systems in our cities and for intelligent traffic management systems by streamlining road behaviour and transport systems.
the resolution we are voting on the day after tomorrow, although not a legislative one, is of great importance because it essentially makes ict one of the main indicators of sustainable development in the european union.
in addition, the new community programme on the protection of children when using the internet will help to promote a safer online environment.
it is a step forward from the energy package adopted by the council in december, but we must move away from estimates and move towards concrete measures, regulations, timetables, because climate change and its consequences are here and there can be no further postponement.
we must be careful not to allow this report to be infiltrated by means of subtle amendments by the back door into the nuclear energy issue, which is irrelevant to this report, as some governments are seeking to do.
economic crisis and environmental policies can go hand in hand and have a positive effect on both the environment and job creation.
it takes responsibility and determination to adequately finance this great climate change development project and new dynamic development agreements beyond and beyond trade restrictive agreements.
it should therefore be recalled that agriculture is already part of national commitments to reduce emissions by 10% by 2020, that there are already significant proposals from the cap for environmentally friendly agricultural practices and that international agreements on agriculture should be reciprocal for all international partners.
the commissioner, the food model is directly linked to the climate model, if we can convince society itself.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
climate change is the result of capital's unprofitable exploitation of natural resources for profit.
he wants to put the wolf in charge of the sheep, by giving the responsibility for mitigating climate change to the very people who are causing it: the monopolies and the multinationals.
energy, water, forests, waste, agricultural production are being privatized and concentrated in a few multinationals, now also in the name of the environment.
the promotion of mutants and the promotion of monoculture crops are destroying biodiversity.
the protection of the environment is used as a pretext even for imperialist interventions in accordance with the "solana doctrine".
not only does it not solve the problem of climate change, it actually exacerbates it.
− madam president, let me say that all of us have at some time experienced environmental, natural or man-made disasters in our respective countries.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the use of waste oils containing pcbs in a food recycling plant in ireland.
in conclusion, a sustainable solution cannot be the result of short-term security considerations, but must take into account long-term humanitarian, political and socioeconomic concerns.
the european union and nato must therefore reassess and improve their relations in order to deal with common threats such as terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the increase in international piracy and the new problems arising from climate change.
the basis for the european neighbourhood policy is the creation of a climate of confidence in the union's immediate periphery.
the european union's support for regional cooperation must be directed towards achieving tangible results in certain priority areas such as energy, transport, immigration and the fight against organised crime.
depression is one of the most common disorders and, by 2020, will be the most common disease in the developed world; the european union has a long tradition of providing a safe and secure environment for all its citizens.
in this regard, the report on mental health, which was unanimously adopted by the environment committee, includes a number of recommendations to promote the mental health and well-being of the population, combat the stigma of discrimination and social exclusion, strengthen preventive action and self-help, and provide support and adequate treatment to people with mental health problems, their families and carers.
we call for emphasis to be placed on training all individuals in key positions, we call for ensuring access to appropriate education, training and employment and the creation of a supportive environment with a particular focus on vulnerable groups.
in this context, we stress that, in order to prevent depression and suicide, it is necessary to implement multi-sectoral programmes and develop networks, to develop a healthy school climate, to improve working conditions, to take measures to improve the quality of life and, finally, to combat stigma and social exclusion, we stress the need for information and awareness-raising actions.
experience from the first evaluation of the national action plans shows in practice that the conditions in the eu are still immature for supporting measures to promote energy efficiency.
this is despite the fact that, according to recent data from the european commission, if the 20% energy saving target were to be achieved, the eu would use around 400 mtoe less primary energy and co2 emissions would be reduced by 860 mt.
the eu should therefore move without further delay to mainstream energy efficiency in all sectoral policies with clear proposals and support measures, and increase community support in this direction.
energy efficiency is a key issue after the adoption of the climate package, and can guarantee energy security, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and boost europe's economy.
but now that the crisis is affecting many - if not all - there is also the logic that this parliament, as the expression of the political sensitivity of society, should make an effort to see issues which were not covered at the beginning, such as the issue of agricultural machinery which my group has the opportunity to propose with amendment no 2. as regards the contradictions we see on the left in this parliament, where some issues, such as the energy aspects of buildings, are good to pursue, but some others, such as agriculture or alcohol, are bad, i think the best judge is the citizen and not the politicians.
it uses problems generated by capitalist development, such as climate change and energy, as new pretexts for its imperialist interventionism and improving its position in global imperialist competition.
the pretexts for eu intervention, the so-called 'threats' to its security, are constantly expanding to include, in addition to 'terrorism', areas such as climate change, energy security, cyberspace, regional conflicts, maritime transport and even space.
however, long-lasting solutions to other issues, such as tackling climate change and achieving a sustainable europe, are essential as well.
i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, but i would like to say that the commission has already taken a decision on the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
finally, this response to the crisis must be one which the citizens understand, one which reflects the priorities: environment, energy, yes, the energy autonomy of the european union, but with all the avenues open, all the possibilities open, so that we can achieve exactly what we want.
the european union needs, more than ever, a common european energy policy that promotes energy security and solidarity while supporting sustainable energy options.
oil is now the most important source of energy on european territory, mainly because of its extensive use in transport.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
oil is a finite resource, its recovery costs have doubled since 2005, its price is constantly fluctuating and it is associated with high co2 emissions.
the reorientation of european energy policy is therefore a one-way street.
the solution is to support european and national measures to promote energy efficiency and to invest in projects using renewable energy sources.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the eu's proposal for a directive on industrial emissions and the ec's amendments reveal, once again, that the real objective of the 'green economy' is not to protect the environment but to secure capital gains.
the eu's declarations on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are false and misleading.
the directive covers more than 52 000 industrial installations, which account for a large proportion of emissions in the eu member states and are also responsible for the failure to meet the eu's own targets for reducing air pollution.
the solution to environmental protection is part of the anti-monopoly anti-imperialist struggle of the workers against the economic domination of the monopolies, against their political power.
mr president, after five years of discussions and consultations with the council, the infamous maritime package (six directives and one regulation) has been stripped of all positive content concerning the safety of human life at sea and the protection of the environment, that is to say, it has been reduced to nothing.
− we know that it is very important to have measures to help citizens and governments go for energy efficiency.
we now have some studies on the potential of tax incentives for energy and environmental purposes, and the commission is preparing a proposal to amend the vat directive to allow reduced rates of vat to apply to certain environmentally-friendly goods and services.
as set out in the economic recovery plan, the commission may propose reduced vat rates for green products and services aimed at improving the energy efficiency of buildings in particular.
this includes work aimed at increasing the energy savings and efficiency of the buildings concerned.
this idea, together with the other ideas we have on energy efficiency in building or renovating houses, will of course be analysed by the commission.
i can also point out that the commission will be restructuring the structural funds so that the structural funds can also invest in these energy-efficient houses.
it shall also reflect developments in the medium-term budgetary position, in particular fiscal consolidation efforts in good times, the level of public debt and sustainability issues, external financing needs, public investment, and the overall quality of public finances.
initiatives to simplify the regulations of the european regional development fund and the other structural funds, measures such as the promotion of investments using renewable energy sources in housing, simplification of regulations, the payment of advances and eligible costs and flat-rate amounts are certain to help to preserve jobs and the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises in an uncertain economic environment.
the development of the 'green economy', the liberalisation of research and energy and innovation are opening up new avenues for profitable investment by capital at the expense of workers and the masses.
the strengthening of relations is based on historical, cultural and economic links, as well as on shared values of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, concern for climate change and sustainable development, disarmament, energy and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
brazil is better able to deal with the new challenges of the global economy, as regulatory issues play an important role in ensuring fair competition and sustainable development.
like other emerging powers, brazil is increasingly active in international efforts to address global poverty and inequality through cooperative programs aimed at long-term sustainable development.
in terms of environmental protection, brazil is the country with the largest area of vital tropical forests.
the union and brazil should actively cooperate at international level to protect them and to address climate change and biodiversity loss.
it should be noted that brazil is the first country to develop significant biofuel production, thus ensuring tangible results in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the exchange of experience and cooperation in this field can therefore be very useful for the union and, conversely, renewable energy sources and energy saving action will be very useful for brazil.
we are now starting to deploy the wide range of instruments at our disposal, thus aiming to help guinea-bissau achieve sustainable peace and, hopefully, consolidate its democratic process.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area.
the green paper on territorial cohesion sets out as immediate areas the penetration of monopolies in health, education, energy and other services, with this essential element of access mainly to transport networks.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the proposed solution to the crisis in the green economy, energy, broadband and innovation is aimed at expanding capital into new profitable sectors rather than protecting the environment and meeting people's needs.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
but what must be avoided and cannot be accepted is the introduction of new policies to protect the environment and the climate, and to deal with the economic crisis, without increasing the resources of the community budget, which remains stable after the new enlargement of the eu.
the conditions imposed require the liberalisation of markets, the privatisation of all services, particularly energy, water, health, education and culture.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one.
this reflection should also include and help global commercial players to better define their roles and their responsibilities in the promotion and strengthening of the fundamental freedom of expression in the global online environment of the internet.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in sport is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
cohesion policy supports, for instance, the protection of our cultural heritage, the development of cultural infrastructure and services, the development of regional attractiveness and its link with sustainable tourism, but also the regeneration of local economies and the development of cross-border strategies.
thus, next may, during the european maritime day celebrations in rome, stakeholders will examine the links between maritime heritage and sustainable regional tourism, amongst others.
it is not just the supply of jobs and employment, it is the creation of cultural and historical tourist attractions that will contribute to the sustainable development of these areas.
the programme encourages the member states to reprogram their structural funds operational programmes in the energy sector, with particular attention to improving the energy efficiency of buildings, given that the building sector is one of the industries which generates a large number of jobs.
in this context, and more specifically with regard to the energy efficiency of buildings, i have undertaken, as rapporteur for the european parliament, to revise the relevant regulation.
the erdf has so far considered as eligible expenditure for housing, and in particular for energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing, only expenditure incurred by member states that joined the european union after may 2004. in my report i thought it appropriate, firstly, to focus all 27 member states on the framework for the revision of the regulation on facilitating energy efficiency and renewable energy sources in the housing sector.
the revision of that regulation does not affect eligible housing costs and boosts the activity of important sectors of the economy such as the construction and renewable energy and energy system industries.
these are two important environmental policy measures which form an integral part of the action plan for sustainable consumption and production.
the contribution of members of the european parliament was decisive; the commission has succeeded in keeping intact the environmental objective of the commission proposal, but has also set even more ambitious targets in a number of important areas.
the revision of the eco-management and audit scheme, known as emas, is enabling organisations and businesses around the world to manage the environmental impact of their activities more effectively.
emas contributes to the continuous improvement of the environmental performance of organisations and businesses, including, of course, compliance with relevant environmental legislation.
the review of the system has enabled us to respond to the growing demand from consumers for objective, unbiased and reliable information on the environmental impact of the products they buy.
the revised system will enable us to increase the variety of eco-labelled products on the market and encourage businesses to improve their environmental performance.
for example: reducing fees, imposing stricter environmental standards, excluding dangerous substances, simplifying criteria and linking them to public procurement policy and other european union policies.
the regulation is becoming more flexible and able to respond to new environmental challenges and priorities.
instead, it provides for the establishment of environmental criteria for selected product categories, with the aim of being able to award the logo to the best products per category.
today, we are faced with a widespread distribution on the market of environmental signs, images, texts, which can cause confusion to the consumer.
from images of forests on containers containing dangerous substances, to claims of carbon-neutral food or even green cars.
following this study and the adoption of a commission decision through the parliamentary examination procedure, the eco-label logo could be awarded to products with the best environmental performance.
the eco-label is one of the few cases of real and direct communication between citizens and the european union on environmental issues.
with this, we further strengthen our arsenal in the fight against climate change.
criteria covering the environmental performance throughout the life cycle of these products.
the eco-label is another persuasive method of advertising products of dubious quality but of ecological contribution.
the eu is incapable of ensuring ecological protection because it seeks and serves capital which, by the unrewarding exploitation of natural and human resources and the use of modern technology in the same direction, destroys the environment.
and the one who destroys the environment cannot be at the same time appointed as its protector.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution from industrial sources.
- first, to align the projects financed more closely with the pre-accession priorities, in particular the environment, gender equality, nuclear safety and employment; - secondly, to avoid the mistakes of the past, such as those recently discovered in the implementation of the phare, sapard and ispa programmes in bulgaria and romania.
it opens the way for the labelling of 'terrorist acts' of mobilisations of the workers' and mass movement affecting any 'vital' infrastructure, including private premises (such as strikes in critical sectors - energy, telecommunications, etc.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in the current economic climate, this question is of particular importance.
within the omc, member states identify common challenges and agree common objectives for universal access, quality and sustainability in health care and long-term care.
the package includes measures ranging from the provision of micro-credit and sme financing to energy efficiency and specific technical assistance for financial sector supervision and financial regulation.
in order to further support the real economy, the commission, the eib, the ebrd and the council of europe development bank have jointly developed an infrastructure initiative that provides technical assistance and cofinancing to priority infrastructure investments in transport, energy, environment and social sectors.
it is a first step towards a western balkans investment framework that will also include investments in other socioeconomic sectors, like smes or energy efficiency.
the eib has no mandate towards direct bank capitalisation in this region and its activity is limited to the sectors of transport, telecommunications, energy and environmental infrastructure.
one thing, however, remains clear: even in the current difficult economic and financial circumstances, we should not lose sight of long-term objectives such as sustainable development and the low-carbon economy.
mr president, this report on urban mobility is an important part of sustainable mobility in europe and an integral part of the strategy for sustainable development and the achievement of the lisbon objectives.
it is a fact that the daily life of the european citizen is heavily burdened by the stress of transport, congestion, exhaust emissions, noise and environmental degradation.
a balance must therefore be struck between the ambition to develop the common transport policy as a right to mobility and as an important part of economic development, on the one hand, and the integrated approach that will improve congestion and make a significant contribution to combating climate change, on the other.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are investing 400 million euro in the second marco polo programme until 2013, and we are also investing a lot of hope and prospects in a more efficient and sustainable transport system, which will provide the european union with added environmental value, while combining economic, social and territorial cohesion.
− mr president, i would like first of all to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for its work on this dossier, and especially the rapporteur, ms amalia sartori, for her efforts on what is a health-care priority of the highest order.
the anti-people policies of the eu and the urban governments are worsening public health services resulting in patient suffering, waiting, lack of various services, waste, non-coverage of the uninsured and immigrants, etc.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the next item is the report by mr bart staes, (a6-0256/2009), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on statistics on plant protection products (com (2008) 11120 - c6-0004/2009 - 2006/0258 (cod)).
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by welcoming the european commission's proposal to recast the energy labelling directive with the main aim of extending its scope to all energy-consuming appliances for domestic, commercial and industrial use, as well as to products linked to energy consumption.
the directive is part of a wider package of legislative proposals aimed at promoting energy efficiency, a top priority for the union as it can play a key role in strengthening energy security, reducing carbon emissions and revitalising the european economy to emerge faster from recession and crisis.
i would like to thank all my colleagues for their proposals, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, the pse secretariat and the itre secretariat, because with their help we have succeeded - i believe - in strengthening the energy labelling directive.
the first concerns our proposal to include energy consumption in advertising, which has provoked a disproportionate reaction from the european publishers' association and from the owners of radio and television stations.
we believe that advertising of products relating to energy consumption should refer to either energy consumption, energy saving or energy labelling only when the advertising includes references to technical specifications or information.
where advertising does not include such references, there is no obligation to refer to energy consumption.
i have left the question of the layout of energy labels, which has emerged as the most pressing issue in this directive, to the last.
this directive will not have achieved its objective, that is to say, it will be ineffective, if energy labelling is not easily recognisable and comparable by the consumers to whom it is primarily addressed in order to help them make the best possible choices.
we now have a successful energy labelling model, the a to g scale, where a is the most efficient product and g is the least efficient.
it is certainly very successful, it is very recognisable and it has contributed a great deal to energy savings.
when there is no indication of the duration of the label, when a product is classified as category a and remains in that category for its lifetime - at a time when much more energy-efficient products are coming onto the market - it is obvious that we are sending confusing messages.
by requiring the label to have a specific lifetime, for example 3-5 years, and after this period a review of the energy efficiency scale based on progress in the product category concerned.
industry is also looking for more energy-efficient appliances to produce and place on the market.
i know that at second reading there will be a lot of work between the council, parliament and the commission to find the right balance between these two elements: industry’s drive and the positive experience we have with this energy label.
we will need to continue to work, but not to label somebody that is fighting against energy efficiency, because labelling is the easiest way to bring about our goals for energy efficiency.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy labels are properly used.
i would like to point out that the a to g scale, which we all regard as very successful, recognisable and as such contributing very much to energy saving, is obviously having problems, and these, mr reul, as i pointed out in my introductory remarks, are that this scale needs to be updated.
the main problem with the existing energy labelling is that it has no 'life span' and this leads to the situation you have described, namely that we have energy products on the market with the same labelling and different degrees of energy efficiency.
the crucial issue is to establish a specific lifetime for the energy label - from a to g - and every 3 to 5 years, based on the progress made in the market, to update the energy efficiency indicators.
we all have and will admit that we have a tried and tested recipe for energy labelling which has become a model for other countries outside the european union.
when you have a successful recipe - which over the years becomes obsolete - you don't update it because if you do and replace it with a new system, you risk losing all the added value you've created over the years by choosing energy labelling.
the message that europe has been sending to consumers over the years has been: choose energy labelling a. we must not weaken this message by ourselves.
this is a change that, if implemented, will improve air quality and significantly reduce the greenhouse gases that cause climate change.
the infamous directive, which was advertised by various forces as punishing shipping companies for marine pollution and protecting the environment, has turned out to be just the opposite.
- that the shipwrecks allegedly cause no pollution!
the truth is that europe has been at the forefront of many things, whether it is the fight against climate change, the fight for a new energy security policy and everything that is now necessary to respond to the financial and economic crisis which, of course, is affecting europe very seriously.
but now we believe that the important thing is to focus on the execution - i said execution, implementation, not gestures - of what we have decided, because we also have very serious concerns about sustainability, because public debt in europe is reaching a really worrying level.
it was not included for the reason that we addressed the most urgent energy needs.
any power production, especially from new energy sources, cannot function if there are grid issues.
and we addressed two other issues which i think would definitely be postponed if they did not have support from the community: firstly, offshore wind energy, which is rather a large project that needs to be connected to the mainland grid, and, secondly, carbon capture and storage, where we really need to encourage industry to come with a full-scale project as soon as possible.
i believe in solar thermal energy but we addressed the most urgent needs.
renewable energy projects, such as solar thermal electricity, are eligible.
we encourage more use of synergy energy sources; in particular we increased the limits of how much renewable energy could be used in relation to housing and energy efficiency.
on top of this, in the summer or early autumn, the commission will table a new communication on financing low-carbon technologies.
we will try to elaborate on it so that these technologies get support, not only from the community budget but also from industry and the member states, so that this support is targeted and so that we get the new technological development very quickly to achieve our goal of 20% renewable energy by 2020, but perhaps we can be even more ambitious in this respect.
basically, nuclear energy is established in a way that means that each country has a nuclear safety regulator who has full responsibility for implementing nuclear safety measures.
at the same time, each member state decides whether or not to use nuclear energy.
there is also a clear obligation that the requirements of the environmental impact assessment should be fulfilled, as laid down in community law, and the additional requirements of the un/ece espoo convention on environmental impact assessment in a transboundary context will also be applicable.
there are clear requirements to be fulfilled and each project is analysed on its own merits, based on the community acquis and on environmental legislation.
i believe that full responsibility for safety should lie at all times with a national regulator, because that is the best way and that will always avoid the debate of whether the central regulator is pushing hard enough for nuclear energy etc.
this means that cities make a binding obligation to reduce co2 by more than 20% by 2020. they develop sustainable energy action plans for this.
we support these actions through the joint research centre, to provide scientific background and technical support for the preparation, implementation and evaluation of the sustainable energy action plans.
we have also created a financial support facility through the european investment bank (eib), in which we place the grants, and also use the eib to target sustainable development in the cities.
at the same time there are also other instruments for sustainable development, and the cohesion policy provides significant support to cities to implement sustainable energy policies and actions.
in total, for the period 2007-2013, eur 9 billion from cohesion policy funds will be directly invested in sustainable energy initiatives in the eu.
these cohesion funds will directly support sustainable energy projects in the region, and will help to mobilise further national investment.
funding may be used to stimulate energy efficiency and renewable energy production, the development of efficient energy management systems and the promotion of clean and sustainable public transport, particularly in urban areas.
the operational programme includes the ‘gateway challenge fund’, which is based on an integrated sustainable development strategy for cork.
finally, the regional development fund was recently changed to give all member states the possibility to use regional funds for energy efficiency improvements and the integration of renewable energy into existing housing.
so, to summarise, i believe that we have created a framework for cities that share an ambition to develop sustainable models for their citizens, and that is the covenant of mayors.
as concerns financial support, we do not at this stage have any programme dedicated to energy efficiency, but we have the structural funds, we have an intelligent energy europe programme and we have also the european investment bank.
i believe that cities have every opportunity to lead the way towards a sustainable energy future.
we are planning, by the end of this year, to develop a new energy efficiency action plan that will address this.
we are also drawing up a communication on the financing of low-carbon energy sources.
i believe that the covenant of mayors will provide much-needed intellectual input and experience to the policies we need to formulate to achieve sustainable cities.
it is also about smart grids, the integration of renewable energy and sustainable transport – hydrogen buses, electric vehicles.
that does not necessarily mean through energy efficiency.
finally, the eu’s commitment to open trade goes hand in hand with its commitment to sustainable development, which is an overarching policy objective for the eu, including in the context of various trade policy initiatives.
sustainable development and, in particular, environmental and social considerations are important components in our trade policy.
this is witnessed by the inclusion of sustainable development provisions focusing on labour and environmental standards in our bilateral trade agreements.
by way of illustration: the agreement would swiftly eliminate eur 1.6 billion of customs duties to the benefit of eu exporters; it would offer solid disciplines on non-tariff barriers in priority sectors such as the automotive, pharmaceutical, or consumer electrics sectors; it would provide significant new market access in services of special interest to eu service providers; it would offer the most ambitious package yet on intellectual property rights, government procurement, sustainable development and other rules issues; and it would foresee novel ways of involving civil society in the monitoring of how the free trade agreement is implemented, and protect our sensitivities with appropriate arrangements.
moreover, concluding that agreement now would demonstrate the commitment of both sides to open markets as one response to the current economic environment.
the next item is the joint debate on the oral question to the commission on rosé wines and authorised oenological practices, tabled by astrid lulling, jean-pierre audy, joseph daul, françoise grossetête, véronique mathieu, elisabeth morin, margie sudre, oldřich vlasák and dominique vlasto, on behalf of the ppe-de group, patrick louis, on behalf of the ind/dem group, jean marie beaupuy, anne ferrouze, nathalie griesbeck and marielle de sarnez, on behalf of the alde group, sergio berlato, cristiana muscardini, angelita domenico, antonio basile, alessandro foglietta, antonio mussa, sebastiano (nusti) giovanni tatto, giovanni mussa, and umberto salvatore vlasto, on behalf of the uen-de group, and by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, to the commission (oj c 226, 8.6.2009, p.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
− madam president, it has been great to listen to you here tonight, because i still feel that you have got all the passion, you have got all the energy and you have got all the emotion that i experienced about the wine sector when we had our discussions on the wine reform.
madam president, the five billion euro programme for economic recovery is intended to exploit the capitalist crisis and to facilitate the achievement of capital's objectives by promoting capitalist restructuring in strategic sectors such as energy and electronic communications.
the same applies to the three and a half billion allocated to completing the single electricity grid and the single electricity market, facilitating the privatisations, mergers and acquisitions promoted by the third liberalisation package and the seizure and storage of coal - this very expensive and unenvironmental project aimed at increasing profits and continuing pollution from power stations.
the sectors are important and energy and broadband, but it is not certain that they are the first priority sectors and especially those that will produce more jobs and more growth as we need.
firstly, the undeniable need to do more in europe for energy interconnections and broadband.
so he should not feel that we need to go "lower" in agriculture because, as the budget has shown, before 2013 we always had money, which we took from here to make them galileo, to make them energy, to make them broadband.
the climate and sustainable development, including social development, and the labour market are certainly important issues.
the 'green economy' is designed to open up new areas of activity which are profitable for capital under the pretext of 'combating climate change'.
i think it also made it clear that there is only one european solution for the car industry - as there is for opel - that it is not possible to find a solution that is long-term and can be economically and socially sustainable in the long term within individual countries.
but as i said before, we have a lot to do, and anyone who reads the barnier report will see how far we can take civil protection to the benefit of european citizens and of course to the protection of the environment.
for at least the next 30 to 40 years, whatever we do to reduce greenhouse gases, we will be experiencing a climate deterioration which, particularly in southern europe where forests are vulnerable, will be felt negatively.
stresses the need for flexible and immediate mobilisation of the european solidarity fund, the need to give priority to tackling forest fires in southern europe in the union's action plan for adaptation to climate change currently under preparation, and the need to submit the commission's proposal for a european policy on natural disaster response as soon as possible; it is important for my country, and above all for the citizens affected, that this decision be voted on by the european parliament.
in greece we are again mourning this year hundreds of thousands of hectares of burnt land, an immense ecological and economic disaster, and the same extent of destruction is in spain, portugal, italy and france.
finally, commissioner, you know better than we do that we are facing a new generation of fires, the so-called high-intensity fires, which are directly linked to climate change and are affecting the forests of the mediterranean and southern europe in particular.
we therefore urgently need to redesign forest protection at national and community level by adapting fire prevention and response to new data and integrating these policies into the ongoing measures to adapt member states to the challenge of climate change.
it is indeed interesting, madam president, that it is mainly the greeks who are speaking on this very important subject which concerns the whole of the european south, since large areas are regularly destroyed by huge forest fires and the quality of life, biodiversity, regional development and the future of the citizens are degraded.
the continuing pressures for land-use change and settlement expansion and, of course, uncontrolled landfills that burn or self-ignite, coupled with climate change, which for some is just an alibi, are now increasing the chances of more natural disasters.
in this context, we must ensure the implementation of a common european sustainable forestry policy and ensure that the money from the cohesion funds for regional development and social solidarity, which is earmarked for risk prevention and management and for the rehabilitation of affected areas, is actually used in a rational and sustainable way.
we believe that the long-term protection of forests and biodiversity is only possible through the implementation of sustainable risk prevention and management policies at national, regional and local level with the active participation of local communities, the containment of the rural population and the creation of new 'green' professions, lifelong education and training, the strengthening of forest services with emphasis on volunteer forest firefighting teams.
the 2007 fires, among the worst such tragedies, and this year's fires in northeastern attica, have exposed the nakedness of the fire and environmental protection system.
i would remind you that athens is the european capital with the lowest proportion of green space per capita, the highest air pollution and that the fires of 2007 and 2009 have worsened the environmental problem.
perhaps climate change can explain to some extent the disasters we have in southern europe.
but there are shortcomings in both national policies and in the european union's policy to the extent that it has not adequately integrated climate change into the environmental strategy.
the commissioner, mr president, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
i am very much afraid, however, that climate change is proceeding at such a high rate that we may have natural disasters of a different nature in northern europe.
it is imperative that this unit be developed and that the environment commissioner be supported in his reporting to both the commission and the council.
taking into account the principle that climate change results in fires and floods, the commission should place particular emphasis at the copenhagen conference on the development of a strategy for preventing and responding to natural disasters, define the budget needed to cover the prevention and response to natural disasters and strengthen the standard unit of the european forest fire fighting regular reserve to this end.
let 's be clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected.
it is not fatal in any natural phenomenon for workers to mourn lives and see their poor livelihoods and the environment destroyed.
climate change is undoubtedly threatening forests in the mediterranean and other critical parts of the planet.
but the destruction of mediterranean forests is also destroying the ability of natural ecosystems to absorb carbon dioxide emissions as natural reservoirs.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of industrial accidents is a very good one.
a european policy for the protection of forests, for the restoration of burnt ones, for the afforestation of areas precisely in the context of the european contribution to combating climate change is absolutely necessary.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
we shall ask developing countries to protect the rainforests; we will address the crucial issue of the contribution of deforestation to greenhouse gas emissions by 20%.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
mr barroso, you are well aware that you have not made any reference to your positions on issues such as the protection of biodiversity, or to your commitments under the millennium development goals and the european union's sustainable development strategy.
aware of these challenges, the european commission has a development policy geared to fight poverty, promote sustainable development and tackle political challenges in order to help foster stability.
in order to address environmental pressure, it is of key importance to ensure that local livelihoods are sustainable.
this means combating desertification and land degradation and enhancing agricultural productivity, halting over-exploitation of biodiversity, forests and other natural resources including oceans and inland waters; and, finally, ensuring that climate change remains within certain limits and assisting african populations to adapt to climate change.
the commission, together with the eu member states, is working on an environmental integration strategy to ensure that development cooperation efforts contribute to these objectives.
our preparations for the copenhagen climate change summit are to be seen in this light.
at present the eu is working with the african union and other regional organisations to strengthen their capacity to address environment and climate change issues.
furthermore, we are seeking to include additional guarantees in the planned multiparty trade agreement in order to improve implementation of core labour and environmental conventions in colombia as part of the sustainable development chapter.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we must be very careful to ensure that our policy for the future combines the necessary support for the recovery - which we hope will come - with a responsible approach to the sustainability of public finances in the medium and long term.
however, once the recovery has been accelerated and driven forward on our own, we must ensure that our public finances are sustainable and establish credible plans to consolidate our budgets.
i expect that these discussions will lead to a clear consensus on ambitious consolidation at the right time in each member state to ensure long-term sustainability.
i would like to tell you that tomorrow parliament will debate the nabucco pipeline, after i remind you that in january 2009 the turkish prime minister threatened from brussels that his country would review its support for the construction of the gas pipeline if negotiations were not continued with the opening of the energy fund.
the international energy business market says that behind the azeris is russia and that we will find ourselves in front of them.
question: before you commit yourself financially, can you please assure our supplier:
mr president, commissioner, in order to deal with the problem of our energy security in a credible and sustainable way, we need a comprehensive strategy which responds to the need to diversify energy sources, but also establishes common rules for transit countries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market.
i agree with many of the points made and i would add the following: the strategic objective of the european union must be to gradually reduce our dependence on energy imports and not to replace gas imports with imports of electricity from renewable sources.
if we really want to become energy self-sufficient and independent in the long term, we must promote energy efficiency and make the best and most of the unique domestic sources of energy, which are renewable.
for all these reasons, our hearts must be in copenhagen, where in december we will decide whether each of our countries will stand up for its own temporary, short-term interests, or whether we will all fight for the planet - our home - the fight to reverse climate change.
it requires us to commit to making the necessary commitments to the necessary reductions, so that the temperature does not rise above 2 degrees celsius, it also requires us to put our hand in the pocket to help the developing world financially to be part of the solution and to help tackle climate change.
my dear colleagues, it is we, the developing world, who have caused climate change.
i also feel, mr president, a very strong sensation in this house that europe should move on to be a stronger, bigger player in the world and to show resolve when it comes to the economy, the fight against unemployment, tackling the challenges of globalisation and the climate issue.
member states and their leaders have of course invested a lot of time and energy in this procedure and this is why it is not static: it cannot be compared with a football match.
the resolution calls for the strengthening of international imperialist organizations (imf, world bank, wto), prepares the ground for the new "green" profitability of capital, under the pretext of climate change and the complete liberalization of international trade, which marks the even greater penetration of monopolies into the markets of developing and poor countries to plunder wealth-producing resources and human resources.
the inhabitants of this region, also known as kafiristan, meaning land of the infidels, struggle to maintain their principles, traditions, and customs in a hostile environment that is gradually absorbing them.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the establishment of an evaluation mechanism to monitor the application of the schengen acquis (com (2009) 0105 - c6-0111/2009 - 2009/0032 (cns)) (a7-0035/2009), and the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the establishment of an evaluation mechanism to verify the application of the schengen acquis (com (2009) 0102 - c6-0110/2009 - 2009/0033 (cns)) (a7-0034/2009)
madam president, the developing countries have contributed the least to climate change.
they are people who depend on the services that natural ecosystems provide, and they are people who have contributed nothing to climate change.
in these natural ecosystems, such as the forests of africa, there is three times as much carbon stored as has been released into the atmosphere.
it's three times more carbon than is in the atmosphere right now, and it's absorbing 50 percent of the carbon we put into the atmosphere every year.
for these reasons, the protection and expansion of forests, based on natural processes and not for commercial purposes, should be a top priority of our policies for both tackling and adapting developed and developing countries to climate change.
will we convince developing countries of our good intentions by proposing to fund the climate change effort with money that we will get, disproportionately, through shipping and that will burden developing economies more as a percentage of gdp than developed economies?
madam president, the main challenge facing us fifty days before the copenhagen summit is whether we can reach an agreement on the responsibility of developing countries for global financing of climate change mitigation policies.
europe has made important strides in identifying sources of funding and ways of organising it, but now is the time to press the rest of the developed countries to take their share of the responsibility, bearing in mind that supporting the effort of developing countries to tackle climate change is also an opportunity to combat global inequalities and to reduce the gap between developed and developing countries.
we are facing the creation of a new class of refugees, climate refugees, who are not protected today by any international treaty and therefore have no rights.
i also welcome the climate resolution drawn up by the committee on the environment.
there has been talk about the need to achieve a global low-carbon development - i agree with that.
i am now on my way to the council of environment ministers in luxembourg, where we are also to establish the eu's mandate for the copenhagen conference.
this is the eu's long-term objective, which must be to reduce emissions by over 80% by 2050. it's about how we're going to push other countries to increase their emission reductions, so that we also reach our 30 percent emission reductions.
this is not least because of the issues raised in the debate here, namely measures to combat deforestation and sustainable forestry, financing for which ecofin will decide.
i am referring to measures which are compatible with sustainable industrial policies in order to increase employment.
the question is very simple, mr president: will you put all your energy, will you have the courage - you personally - to fight so that quantitative targets are put on the issue of poverty?
i would like to ask you, mr president, to take the opportunity to express your views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
unlike the council and the commission, we are trying to ensure that the plan for the recovery of the european economy is adequately financed by strengthening energy infrastructure and research and innovation.
at the same time, we must ensure the sustainability of existing community infrastructures and instruments in the field of civil protection and, in particular, further strengthen the european union's rapid reaction capacity in the event of natural disasters, thus paving the way for the future creation of a european civil protection force.
finally, it should be noted that green development and the strengthening of research and innovation must be a key component of the community budget for a clean and sustainable environment for all sectors.
the second point is climate change.
the european union is rightly at the forefront of global environmental diplomacy.
the ecological debt is borne by everyone without exception.
i support the idea of a global climate bank, which would draw on resources from the emissions market to finance the efforts of developing countries to create environmentally friendly development models.
on the issue of climate change the presidency has done very well.
however, we need to discuss them and we need to have a plan to do that, if we want to have a sustainable economy to give to future generations.
finally, on climate change, we have not lowered our ambitions.
there will be a global distribution key based on emissions and ability to pay.
the text of the lisbon treaty gives us the guidance and the tools we need to make decisions on how to combat climate change, how to deal with the economic crisis and the consequences of it, namely unemployment and social problems.
madam president, the great challenge of humanity in the face of climate change is how do we stop accumulating carbon in the atmosphere and start to re-store it in the earth.
given that it is unlikely that we will stop emitting carbon in the next 50 years, increasing carbon storage on earth is our only hope and should be a priority of response policies.
the scientific community through the ipcc is calling on the european union and its member states to commit to a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared to 1990 levels.
the ipcc is to climate change what the international monetary fund is to economics.
and yet, the european union insists on raising the emissions reduction target to 30% by 2020 if other developed countries commit to comparable emission reductions.
given the current situation, what kind of commitments, what kind of commitments and what kind of commitments and from which countries exactly would be able to trigger the above offer and what climate policies exactly would be reviewed in this case and what preparation has been made for this?
we have added two more areas to it: one is sustainable consumption, and the other is services of general interest, so we are expanding.
i am very glad that we are so close to the same rights that are now so important for the whole of mankind, these being environmental rights.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
these are things which i believe are possible and which should be seriously addressed not only in the context of tourism policy but also in the context of environmental and transport policy.
it is not a question of negotiating new association agreements, but rather of developing and strengthening existing ones to address issues such as trade facilitation, technical barriers and sanitary and phytosanitary issues, as well as public procurement, competition, intellectual property rights, trade and aspects relating to sustainable development and transparency.
as regards sustainability, as with all our free trade areas, the commission carried out a sustainability impact assessment, which was completed in december 2007 and is used for both current and future negotiations.
with the conclusion of this trade agreement, union exporters will find new export opportunities and a more favourable regulatory environment in libya, in particular in the services and oil and natural gas markets.
a sustainability impact assessment is also being finalised for libya.
i would like to stress the need to incorporate social and environmental considerations and plant health standards into the opening up of markets.
i personally am in favour of strengthening the barcelona process: union for the mediterranean, and the programmes announced within its framework in strategic areas such as cooperation between smes and the exploitation of renewable energy sources.
i voted against, firstly because amendment no 13 was adopted, which considers nuclear energy to be an important component in reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and secondly because amendment no 3 by my group, which called for developed countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions below 1990 levels by 80 and 95% by 2050, was rejected.
there are many positive elements in the resolution, such as the eu committing €30 billion per year by 2020 to meet the needs of developing countries in the area of climate change mitigation and adaptation.
but i think that turning to nuclear energy as an antidote to global warming is not only not the solution to combating climate change, it is a dangerous option.
the trio of developed - developing - underdeveloped countries and governments - grassroots movements - people will collide in copenhagen as climate change greatly undermines efforts to reduce poverty and hunger in the world.
the growing risks to the environment and health, and especially the dangerous climate change and global warming, are the result of industrial development guided by capitalist profit, the commercialization of land, air, energy and water.
with proposals for a 'sustainable, green economy' and 'low-carbon' economic growth, the eu is trying to further open the way to investment by eu monopolies and at the same time satisfy the speculative expectations of capital through the 'pollutant market'.
the lisbon treaty, mr president, creates an even more negative environment for the peoples of the member states of the european union and the enlargement countries.
the reasons are the consequences of the nato war, capitalist restructuring, agreements with the european union, foreign military bases in the region, the capitalist crisis and the energy competition of the great powers.
the council's decision to rush its proposal for a smoke-free environment to the member states without allowing parliament sufficient time to elaborate its own position is, in our view, wrong.
this document will review current issues affecting agriculture and food security, for example, challenges posed by climate change, enhanced attention to nutrition and food quality, safety nets and social protection policies, impact of biofuels on food production or the use and impact of new technologies and biotechnologies, increased calls for rights-based approaches, large-scale land acquisition etc.
this remains crucial notably in view of the increasing demand for food due to a growing global population and changing dietary patterns and the challenges and threats that climate change is posing to sustainable agricultural production.
workers and the working class, even in the advanced capitalist countries, are finding it increasingly difficult to secure healthy and safe food, while food multinationals are raking in huge profits and are now buying up vast tracts of land, primarily in africa, on the assumption that food production must double by 2050. the eu is leading the way in liberalising and privatising all food, water, energy, transport and technology sectors, and is imposing this on third countries through the wto and bilateral agreements.
biodiversity: i completely agree that this is important, and that was exactly the reason why we included biodiversity in the new challenges when we agreed on the health check of the common agricultural policy in november 2008. so this has high priority, and i completely agree with the comments from the honourable member.
our priorities included the need to strengthen the role of the wto in monitoring and analysing protectionism; wto accession – such as for instance the accessions of least-developed countries into the wto, which we certainly think must be promoted; the rising number of regional free-trade agreements – here we need to ensure that these actually complement the multilateral trade system; and finally, there is the contribution of trade policy to the fight against climate change.
finally, we call for the strengthening of work between the world trade organisation and other international organisations to ensure mutual support and coherence between trade and non-trade aspects such as environmental sustainability, nutritional adequacy and safety and decent working conditions.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
this leaves little room for manoeuvre should the eu have to respond to unforeseen needs or want to react to new political challenges such as the eu 2020 strategy or new measures to tackle climate change.
i am particularly pleased that, thanks to the european parliament's persistence, we have managed to secure the financing of energy networks and infrastructure under the economic recovery plan, with an emphasis on 'green technologies', innovation, research and the creation of broadband infrastructure in rural areas.
it is also of particular importance that we have succeeded in ensuring the sustainability of existing community infrastructure and tools in the field of civil protection, in particular the further strengthening of the eu's rapid response capacity in the event of natural disasters, thus paving the way for the future establishment of a european civil protection force.
i voted against the resolution because it as a whole promotes the liberalisation of markets, the creation of a trading system which is only to the detriment of poor and developing countries and which shows no real concern for the environmental needs of the planet.
i believe that trade liberalisation and its disastrous effects, which have contributed to the current financial, economic, climate and food crises, job losses, poverty and deindustrialisation, must be rejected.
i also voted against because the resolution does not fully respect the right of governments to protect their capacity to regulate and provide basic services, particularly in the area of public goods and services such as health, education, culture, communications, transport, water and energy supply.
we will strive for genuine reform of the international trading system, aimed at establishing rules for fair trade that comply with international standards in the areas of social justice, respect for the environment, food sovereignty and security, sustainable agriculture, sustainable development and cultural diversity.
eu support is long-term and sustainable and it should be sustainable.