how long can the carpathian wine industry, vineyards and the natural environment continue to be destroyed in this way?
finally, radical environmental considerations mean that the reduction of pesticides will create a space for gmos, which would not be desirable here in europe.
the czech presidency has chosen the slogan 'europe without frontiers' as its motto and considers energy policy and economic stability to be among its key priorities.
we liberals have long called for a significant reduction in our dependence on russia, our energy dependence.
the common energy policy must be created by greater solidarity between member states, better coordination and networking.
accelerate the use of renewable and alternative resources and improve energy efficiency.
this recognition can help to overcome the current delay in moving towards a common european energy policy, the first step of which is a common european responsibility for security of supply.
the worst energy crisis in history may be the last wake-up call for member states to take action to reduce their energy dependence.
the current crisis is not only a test of the common energy policy but also of eu solidarity.
the worst energy crisis in history may be the last wake-up call for member states to take action to reduce their dependence on energy.
the current crisis is not only a test of the common energy policy but also of eu solidarity.
we can only agree with the energy security and solidarity action plan.
expand support for energy efficiency investments and strengthen the energy dimension in the emerging eu's external policy.
i believe that the current crisis would not have had such a drastic impact if the member states had not made a last-minute decision and committed themselves to the eu's common energy policy, not just in words.
the second strategic review of energy policy could not be more timely.
i refer to this as diversification of energy sources, sources of supply and transport routes.
perhaps, but i see the future in less and cleaner energy consumption.
this is why i believe in a green european 'new deal' that aims at sustainable growth, encourages and exploits environmental innovation.
the green new deal, a new economic logic based on environmental innovation and supported by international capital markets, is increasingly becoming a key building block of a number of eu countries' economic rescue and recovery programmes.
the european green new deal, if it is given the green light, will have a fundamental impact on europe's future energy policy.
one of them is energy phobia, which is that we have to put up with the russians or they'll shut down the pipeline.
it's not just about energy!
the absence of a common energy and foreign policy, the disregard for the diversification of energy consumption and the emphasis on certain historical prejudices and commercial advantages make the union vulnerable.
it's about much, much more than energy.
the strategic energy review summarises all the steps needed to reduce the european union's dependence on energy sources.
the energy review prepared by the commission is welcome to identify investments which are of common interest to all member states.
we welcome the decision of the european commission to reallocate part of the unused eu funds to energy investments.
these philosophical discussions are beyond the scope of my report, but i want to make it clear that i believe that sustainable use is the ideal solution.
at the same time, these areas are highly vulnerable to human-induced environmental changes such as motorisation, chemicals, climate change and the introduction of alien species.
we need to link the development of sustainable tourism with the protection of these areas, and the proceeds should be used entirely for the protection of wildlife.
− mr president, as we did not have a plenary debate on this item and there was no possibility to table amendments following the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, you either have to trust your rapporteur – myself – or reject the whole resolution.
indeed, forms of autonomy, including territorial autonomy, can offer a positive and sustainable future for these communities, which should not be mystified but discussed, because if a positive solution in one member state is possible without compromising the territorial integrity of the state, it can also be found in another member state.
climate change and transport are no longer mutually exclusive, but we can only preserve the mobility we have acquired and feared, the free movement of people, goods and capital, in the future if we change and take decisive action.
as a member of the interim committee on climate change, i call for a comprehensive package of measures to address the fifth key issue, transport, and to implement it simultaneously.
first, we need to transform the economic environment with a dual purpose: on the one hand, to support eco-innovation through taxes and public procurement, and on the other, to really apply the 'polluter pays' principle.
the polluter pays principle should be applied to all vehicles, emissions trading and the integration of external costs.
– tackling climate change at this moment of deep financial turmoil and decreased confidence in economic systems may seem for many a mistake in terms of priorities.
finally, sufficient financial means are of course necessary to make the required investments in ‘green’ innovation and, obviously, these costs cannot simply be made at the expense of other vital community policies which cannot bear the burden of climate change without additional financial resources.
one of the most serious long-term consequences of climate change is the depletion of freshwater resources, an increasing lack of healthy drinking water.
european environmental policy must therefore be more determined than ever to protect water bodies, prevent water and soil pollution and manage natural and artificial aquatic habitats.
the alternation of floods and droughts, extreme weather, requires better management of rainwater, no waste water, just poorly treated water!
i think it's very important to recognize that the economic and financial crisis has the same root cause as our climate crisis.
i agree with commissioner dimas that the cost of this must be met by carbon trading, private investment and public incentives.
everyone is looking for breakout points, how to boost employment, how to jump-start the engine of the global economy, how to stop climate change.
the new economic logic, based on innovations in environmental technology and supported by international capital markets, is also the basis of the agenda of the new us president barack obama.
investments that aim to make more efficient use of renewable energy sources, reduce energy consumption and reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases bring significant social benefits in addition to economic benefits.
environmental objectives should also take into account the economic and social performance of eu member states.
the concrete action proposals in the florence report, such as support for zero-energy 'passive houses', a european fund for research into renewable sources, the interconnection of energy networks at european level and the provision of information to eu citizens, especially children, all contribute to this change in social attitudes.
we must also strive to maintain europe's technological advantage in environmental developments in the 21st century and to transform it into an economic and social advantage.
hungary's excellent agricultural potential could provide significant opportunities for energy production from biomass or for the use of plant and animal by-products as waste-biogas unsuitable for other uses.
how should europe respond to the growing regional organisation of emerging powers and energy-rich member states on its eastern borders, the shanghai cooperation organisation?
it should be noted that the eu's current vulnerability and high energy dependence, as demonstrated by the russia-ukraine gas dispute, undermines the development of a credible, effective and coherent common foreign and security policy.
the union needs to concentrate its efforts in supporting the social and economic dynamics to overcome the mere separation of public and private sectors if we really want to find new and innovative solutions to provide our citizen with sustainable jobs and a better living environment with quality services of general interest in an inclusive society.
in all member states, the energy policy dialogue has been intensified.
here in the european parliament, too, there has been a lot of talk about alternative transport routes, about expanding storage capacity, or about the future role of nuclear energy.
but the issue of energy efficiency has been undeservedly neglected.
that is why i am pleased that the report on the national energy efficiency action plans has given us the opportunity to discuss this issue in recent weeks.
the importance of energy efficiency lies in the fact that it can achieve spectacular results faster than any other means.
as recently pointed out by commissioner piebalgs, the eu's regulation of the state of readiness of technical equipment alone could save the equivalent of hungary's annual energy consumption.
we cannot stress enough that energy efficiency can be the cure for all our energy policy problems.
it will help to reduce europe's energy dependence on third countries.
energy efficiency can also have a positive impact on european competitiveness and reduce environmental burdens.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
we therefore consider it a good decision that the 2006 regulation requires all member states to summarise their planned energy efficiency measures in national action plans.
secondly, financial resources for energy efficiency should be strengthened, both at union and member state level.
as a consequence of the economic crisis, few european citizens can now afford to start investing in energy efficiency, and it is therefore necessary to expand existing energy efficiency support schemes as soon as possible.
in this context, energy efficiency needs to be given a much greater prominence in the next seven-year community budget and tax incentives can also provide substantial progress.
third, the european union should continue to legislate on energy efficiency.
for example, tightening regulations on the energy efficiency of buildings can result in significant savings.
fourth, member state governments should take a leading role in developing energy efficiency.
this should be reflected in extensive information campaigns, as consumers will only invest in energy efficiency if they are aware of the benefits they can derive from it.
i believe that the issue of energy efficiency should not be treated as a secondary issue in times of economic crisis.
not only because energy efficiency investments can create hundreds of thousands of new jobs in europe.
is a coordinated common energy policy taking shape?
are we doing everything we can to combat climate change and to promote renewable energy?
i want to make it clear that we are not looking to support companies, and we are not talking about billion-dollar projects, but we are looking to the european commission to take steps to make europe energy independent, and the nabucco project is one of the symbols of this.
as rapporteur for the 2010 eu budget on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to express my satisfaction with the material before us.
in particular, i welcome the commission's intention to contribute to economic and social reconstruction, to strengthening energy efficiency and to combating climate change.
the environmental new deal, the solution to the current economic crisis by increasing investment in green technology, is a great opportunity to do that.
the problems with gas supply at the beginning of the year again highlighted the lack of alternative energy sources, energy supply routes, energy storage capacity and energy supply connections between member states.
it is therefore important that the improvement of the security of energy supply and transport is appropriately reflected in the eu budget, so that we invest significant amounts in these areas.
as the report very well shows, climate change and environmental protection and energy security are closely interlinked.
at the same time, climate change mitigation measures are still not adequately reflected in the eu budget.
the socialist group answer is that it is right to have a single, comprehensive strategy for the future, to drive competitiveness and social and environmental sustainability in one single strategy.
i believe that the root of the current economic crisis is overconsumption, the root of the ecological crisis, and we have to dig into that to find a solution.
we are at a crucial moment in climate policy, as we must agree on new common objectives to combat global warming in copenhagen at the end of the year.
to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction of 25 to 40 percent that scientists are recommending by 2020, to stop the loss of biodiversity, we need very serious financial resources.
on the one hand, we need to support developing countries, but only through transparent and well-monitored investments, and on the other hand, the proceeds of eu emissions trading auctions should also support adaptation measures in developing countries.
the environment committee proposes a total of €30 billion for this purpose by 2020. this is a huge amount, and it's a big job to use it well.
on the other hand, fighting climate change is a great opportunity for europe to create new technologies, new jobs and increase energy security.
the current economic recession is masking the real problem facing humanity and europe: the ecological crisis.
energy cooperation has emerged as one of the most pressing issues in eu-turkey relations.
the main reason for this is that turkey, as a transit country, can make a major contribution to reducing the eu's dependence on energy sources and to providing it with a more resilient supply.
the deepening of cooperation with turkey can also be an important step towards the expansion of the internal energy market.
they want to meet the growing demand for energy from as many sources as possible.
i am convinced that energy cooperation should not be used as a weapon of foreign policy.
the above calls for a more intensive energy dialogue between the european union and turkey.
one possible stage of this could be the opening of the energy connection chapter.
stabilising the western balkans and strengthening european connectivity is an important task for us, as the region is of geostrategic importance for europe, while being highly vulnerable and vulnerable in many respects, such as economic and energy.
the gas crisis of recent months has highlighted europe's energy vulnerability and energy cooperation is therefore a particularly important part of the agreements, which may include transit countries belarus and ukraine and exporter azerbaijan.
i ask the european parliament to intervene to save verespatak, to protect its natural environment.
the story is clear: a few hundred meters from the hungarian border, in an austrian village called heiligenkreuz, an austrian company is pushing for the construction of a huge waste incineration plant.
on the hungarian side, the city of szentgotthárd considers this planned facility unacceptable for environmental and other reasons.
this is not the first time i have been forced to speak out about the giant coal-fired power plant planned for tovetore in slovakia, with an annual emission of 4 million tons of carbon dioxide.
across the border, the hungarian government has issued its 'crisis management and growth' strategy, in which it plans to extend the mátra power plant, which currently emits more than 6 million tonnes of pollution per year, with a new 440 megawatt lignite-based unit.
the european union adopted its climate package at the end of the year, the financial framework to 'climate compensate' developing countries was approved at the european summit this weekend, and we are preparing for the copenhagen climate summit in december with great vigour.
meanwhile, the leaders of two member states, slovakia and hungary - although the latter have just resigned - are, as if nothing had happened, funding climate change with the money of their citizens, despite their protests.
this could mean the entry of new segments into work, which will be essential for sustainable development, to reach the 70% legal employment level.
we need to compensate european producers for having stricter food safety and environmental rules than our competitors outside the union.
it would be good if we could succeed in the wto negotiations in asserting our legitimate demands that our global competitors adhere to the same strict food safety, animal and plant health and environmental standards and rules.
the fact that the parent banks are responsible for their subsidiaries has been put back on the agenda, as my colleague adrian severin has stressed, and very important progress has been made in the field of energy security.
i am pleased that our political leaders have recognized that global crisis management and the fight against climate change are closely intertwined.
the green new deal of presidents gordon brown and barack obama is about linking economic stimulus with environmental investments, energy efficiency and support for green technologies.
however, it is making only a very small contribution to the eu's transition to a low-carbon economy.
while the emphasis is on improving energy efficiency and saving energy, more attention and money is being given to energy suppliers, diversifying supply routes and promoting the eu's energy interests vis-à-vis third countries.
we need to develop energy infrastructure, no doubt, but not at the expense of reducing consumption.
the european union remains committed to playing a leading role in the global climate agreement in copenhagen.
but to do so, we urgently need to agree on the establishment of a global carbon market, financial compensation for developing countries, technological assistance and capacity building, and finally on the principles of burden sharing between member states.
the european union is welcoming the €3.5 billion in the economic stimulus package for key energy investments.
i believe this is an important step towards a common energy policy.
last but not least, the list of aid does not mention investments related to energy efficiency.
the european parliament therefore needs to give greater weight to the principle of regional balance, as well as to alternative transport routes and energy efficiency investments.
international terrorism, proliferation, climate change, the economic crisis.
in january, confidence in the reliability of russia's energy supplies was shaken.
the energy partnership should therefore be a central element of the agreement.
it would be a confidence-building move for russia to finally ratify the energy charter and the transit protocol.
we expect the european union to act unitedly and decisively on behalf of those member states which are heavily dependent on russian energy supplies.
the recent secretive purchase of a large shareholding in the hungarian energy company mol by a russian enterprise is thus more than a mere commercial transaction; it illustrates how russia moves into an unoccupied space.
by developing these residential buildings, we are making a tangible difference to the lives of those who live in them, reducing the energy consumption of buildings, creating and preserving jobs.
the first and most important step is to completely eradicate exclusion and the ghettos in order to achieve effective and sustainable social integration of the most disadvantaged areas.
the common european energy policy has been dealt another blow in recent days following the gas crisis in january.
the union can speak of the need for a common energy policy, but the member states act in contradictory ways.
if the eu cannot speak with one voice on vital energy policy issues, it will continue to fall victim to divisive tendencies.
– mr president, there are different tools to sanction environment-conscious behaviour in our societies.
we can target consumers through the products they buy, recommending those products which are environmentally friendly and fit the requirement of sustainable development.
my comrades and i have tabled many amendments to it, and those amendments are either favoured by the committee on the environment or their spirit is built into the compromise package.
we think that the environmental effect of products must be a very important issue in the eu, and the whole idea of an ecolabel gives a very useful orientation for consumers.
mostly the smaller enterprises do not have enough money, time and energy for the slow process of getting an ecolabel.
it is not enough to judge the environmental characteristics of the ready-made product; the substances of the product, the process of production, the transport of the goods and the method for its destruction or decomposition should also be studied before an ecolabel is given.
specific goods which do not have equivalent alternatives, and which have a higher overall environmental performance compared with other goods of the same category, may get exceptions.
the best and most well-known example is the energy-saving light bulb, which has many environmental advantages but contains mercury.
the ecolabel has a real added environmental value.
as i have already said, the ecolabel shall be based on environmental performance throughout the life cycle of the best products on the internal market.
the voluntary eco-label scheme is of particular importance as it aims to promote the european distribution of products with limited environmental impact, both in production and consumption.
the continuously changing environment of services requires them to be reviewed regularly, on an annual basis.
we must understand that it is the duty of all of us, irrespective of our nationality or national affiliation, to protect our environment, thus creating the opportunity to fulfil the objectives and values which the european union itself believes are essential to a full human life.
in my speech of 23 march this year, i called for the european parliament and the european commission to intervene to protect verespatak, romania, whose vulnerable population and built heritage, as well as its natural environment, are in mortal danger as a result of a mining project by a canadian-romanian joint venture.
our fears have been confirmed, because after a two-year suspension, the new romanian government is finally ready to give the green light to the investment, which, by using extraction based on cyanide technology contrary to european standards, threatens not only the immediate environment but also the entire romanian-hungarian border area with an ecological catastrophe.
i ask the european commission to send a commission of inquiry to romania in the spirit of european environmental policy and, in the long term, to ensure that mining is properly regulated at eu level.
– madam president, the third energy package is about harnessing the sector with the aim of providing more security and transparency, as well as sustainable and affordable energy for all european citizens and enterprises.
it is about facing the energy challenges in front of us.
it is about attracting investors in the field of energy.
somehow it is a pity that we are ending this energy package.
we attach great importance to the fact that the european parliament can now approve the third energy package in its second reading.
the outcome of this will fundamentally affect the structure of the eu energy market.
as a consequence, significant differences will continue to exist in the eu energy market.
the energy package to be adopted is therefore an important step towards the establishment of a common eu energy policy.
the rapporteur is the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
− after 2006, i had the honour of drawing up the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the implementation of the budget of the european union and its five agencies for the financial year 2007. overall, i consider the overall rate of implementation of budget lines in this area to be satisfactory, which was 94,6%.
among the agencies, the european environment agency, which reached 100% in both commitments and payments, and the centre for disease prevention and control were outstanding.
however, there is still room for improvement in the budgetary area for the european medicines agency, the european food safety authority and the european chemicals agency - the latter in its first year of operation in 2007. as rapporteur for the envi, i propose that the commission agencies be granted a discharge in 2007 in respect of the implementation of the budget in the fields of environmental policy, public health and food safety.
i believe that the citizens of europe deserve a step forward in the field of nuclear energy, which already accounts for 32% of their electricity supply.
to stop deforestation, forest degradation and biodiversity loss, we believe that we need both.
at present, almost 13 million hectares - the size of greece - of forest are lost every year, and deforestation is responsible for almost 20% of global carbon dioxide emissions, which is more than the total greenhouse gas emissions of the european union.
deforestation is responsible for a significant decline in biodiversity and the extinction of certain species, as well as the decline of the earth's ecological services.
in addition to tropical forests, i consider it particularly important to stop deforestation in central and eastern europe and to establish a strict system of sustainability criteria for wood materials and wood products.
green public procurement and sustainability criteria are needed for wood and other biomass used for renewable energy production.
part of the auction revenues from the reduction of co2 emissions should be used to stop deforestation, and i welcome the efforts in the report by mr lucas to tighten controls and establish an effective penal system.
finally, i think it is particularly important to set up control bodies and to apply penalties which really reflect the compensation for environmental damage.
it will make european transport more efficient and safer, and will also help to protect the environment and improve energy efficiency.
ladies and gentlemen, since my party is not expected to do so well in the elections to enable me to continue with you for the next five years, i too would like to thank you for the excellent cooperation i have experienced in this house, and as a young politician i can only wish that all young politicians would learn in such a wonderful environment how european politics works.
we also want to face the challenges of climate change.
we want to ensure that not just a few billion in the budget allocated for this purpose, but almost every item of the budget, is used effectively to deal with the crisis, so that europeans realise that the union is not a waste of money but an effective tool for solving their problems.
the copenhagen climate negotiations are expected to play a key role at the upcoming g20 summit.
the eu should also provide financial support to developing countries to help them meet their climate goals.
for example, the extension of emissions trading or green certificate schemes can help to achieve emission reductions where they are least costly.
a fair agreement could actually strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy in the medium term, while reducing the environmental burden.
not only is the pipeline the source of serious environmental concern, but – even more urgently – it is a project that has been overtaken by time.
nord stream has every likelihood of being a wholly unnecessary white elephant, and its protagonists should reconsider the project before more money and more resources, effort and energy are tied up in it.
is there anything wrong with the paradigm, the system, in which large quantities of soybeans are imported from latin america, in particular, and the excess supply in europe is further increased, the latin american environment is destroyed, and in the resulting crisis we are still wondering whether agricultural products should be exported to the third world at dumped prices, destroying the market there, the position of farmers and producers there.
north africa, rotary mirrors, solar panels, direct current transmission and 15% of the energy demand.
so i suggest that we do research to increase the safety of nuclear energy, because it's clean and cheap.
and it doesn't matter, because energy security ends with the consumer, with the bill, whether they can pay it.
we all need to know that in an economic crisis, it's not households that are hit first by power outages, energy blackouts, but companies.
these are the companies, my fellow congressmen, our voters, our citizens work for, risking their wages by risking our energy security.
i myself wrote to the commissioner after the transaction and his reply showed that he considered our demand for stronger protection of european energy companies against external acquisitions lacking in transparency to be justified.
mr president there are differing opinions about the extent of human influence on climate change.
i'm assuming that this influence exists and that the copenhagen climate conference is about reducing it.
how do you get the biggest polluters to commit to reducing emissions?
we need to get the global polluting power, the united states, to reduce this massive pollution.
one of the key issues at the upcoming copenhagen climate summit could be forestry.
for these reasons, the requirements for sustainable forest management should be strengthened.
the copenhagen climate summit could create the opportunity for forest management to become an integral part of climate protection systems.
a global, ambitious and comprehensive agreement is needed in copenhagen to make the fight against climate change effective.
all countries should contribute to the financing of the fight against climate change, in accordance with their capabilities and economic potential.
the european union has a significant role and commitment to finance the climate agenda and is estimated to support developing countries, and its annual funding requirement of €5.7 billion for the period 2010-2012 is estimated to place a significant burden on both the eu budget and national budgets.
in the latter case, however, i consider it important that the economic potential and limits of the ability of each member state to deliver are taken into account in the allocation of the financial burden arising from the european union's future international climate finance commitments.
i am also convinced that all european citizens must do their part to fight climate change, and that this requires comprehensive energy saving campaigns.
today, it is clear that greenhouse gases, primarily carbon dioxide, are by far the greatest threat to the earth.
when we talk in the european parliament about climate change and preparing for the copenhagen conference, we must not forget that by adopting the third energy package and the climate package, we have laid the foundations for a european energy policy that, while enhancing competitiveness and strengthening security of supply, prioritises energy efficiency, environmentally friendly energy production and the protection of consumer interests.
the third energy package on the market side and the climate package on the regulatory side created the opportunity to bring new investors, new players to the european energy market.
and this is the key to europe's climate change policy, the copenhagen goals.
we need new investments in energy, new innovative technologies, new players.
because significant reductions in co2 emissions, both at european and global level, can only be achieved by developing and deploying new technologies.
do you have a say in the threats posed by climate change, terrorism?
and i want to highlight one of those, and that is energy security.
it is a step forward to include energy policy in a separate chapter of the eu treaty, as has not been the case in the past.
based on the developments of the past few years, i believe that the new chapter sets out good guidelines for the eu's energy policy.
the objectives to be supported are improving energy efficiency, promoting renewables and connecting networks.
as a representative from a new member state, i am particularly pleased that the concept of solidarity is included in the new energy chapter.
the lisbon treaty, however, does not provide a solution, at least in the field of energy policy.
the introduction of the new chapter is more of a warning: urgent action is needed to reduce europe's dependence and to ensure that environmental considerations prevail.
the opportunity for member states to strengthen the foundations of the common eu energy policy, recognising their own interests.
the words ‘sustainable and environmentally friendly actions ... (green new deal)’ should be added to the remarks instead of the words ‘green new deal’ in the remarks adopted on the following budget lines: 04 02 17 esf – convergence 04 02 19 esf – competitiveness 13 03 16 erdf – convergence 13 03 18 erdf – competitiveness similarly, on the budget line 13 03 20 erdf – operational technical assistance for the european regional development fund, the first two new paragraphs should be replaced by the following:‘part of the appropriation is intended for financing sustainable and environmentally friendly actions (green new deal) that provide for reconciling economic, social and environmental development requirements and for recovery of european regions after the economic and financial crisis’.the budget line number of the pilot project on an all-inclusive cooperation between public authorities, commercial firms and not-for-profit enterprises on integrating people into society and employment should be changed to another line, 04 03 12, for technical reasons.
equally, we need to choose the top leaders as soon as possible, and not to waste time.
in the energy field, the two countries are interdependent, as mr hannes swoboda has already pointed out.
in the energy field, it would be important for the union and russia to reach an agreement after withdrawing from the energy charter.
it would be important to set up an energy hotline so that the central european eu member states do not suffer as a result of the russian-ukrainian disputes.
it is no coincidence that, in the light of events of recent years, the agenda of the negotiations reflects the evaluative role of energy trade.
the eu should therefore seek to integrate the principles of the energy charter, which russia has not yet ratified, into the new cooperation agreement.
today, both energy transit and access to markets are fraught with contradictions.
the energy charter can resolve this contradiction.
in heiligenkreuz, they want to build a waste incinerator 300 meters from the hungarian border, which could burn almost ten times the annual waste of burgenland.
the proposed investment is in breach of directive 2008/98/ec and i therefore call on the commission of the european union not to approve any eu aid for the construction of the waste incinerator in heligenkreuz.
the central european union member states are committed to supporting the union's climate policy objectives.
the commission notes that the union's contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector is limited to the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector.
the global emissions reduction agreement should take into account the economic strength of the new member states, their gni and it is very important that these resources are not lost for these member states to implement green investments, renewable energy development.
the european union has every moral basis to take decisive action in copenhagen to reduce emissions from the united states and china.
the collapse of heavy industry has led to a significant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, but we have paid a social, social price for it.
secondly, it should be possible, and this would be fair, to carry over unused quotas to the next period if they were used for environmental purposes.
i know these values have different meanings depending on the general political climate, but this resolution has found the right balance between them.
it would also be very important to ensure that we take a firm stand on the immediate task when we talk about the climate conference, but we must take a firm stand against the united states, and i hope perhaps that president barroso has left because he is currently on the phone on this subject.
one is the sale of carbon dioxide allowances after 2012. the commission and some of the old eu member states want to ban the sale of quotas after 2012. nine countries, the czech republic, poland, hungary, romania, the three baltic states, slovakia and bulgaria, insist on being able to sell their quotas after 2012. these countries, including hungary, have fulfilled, failed to fulfil or exceeded their kyoto commitments.
at the forthcoming european council, member states are expected to agree on the main principles represented at the copenhagen climate summit.
i think it is important that the issue of energy efficiency should not be overlooked alongside the issue of emission quotas and financial aid to developing countries.
this is particularly disadvantageous because in some parts of europe, improving energy efficiency is cheaper than any other solution for reducing emissions.
on the one hand, the european union should seek to bring energy efficiency standards closer together worldwide by adopting a new climate regime.
on the other hand, energy efficiency aid should be given a stronger role in the future long-term eu budget, especially in relation to the reconstruction programmes for buildings in the former socialist countries.
and that's worth highlighting because we have to face the fact that every time we create a new regulation that makes it more expensive to produce agricultural products, that reduces efficiency -- say animal welfare regulations -- because it increases the amount of feed needed to produce 1 kg of meat, we're not only doing bad things to the environment, because we're going to emit more co2, but each of these measures increases the number of hungry people, and it may be that the very amount of feed that needs to be used as surplus -- say in poultry -- is going to be missing from the table of a hungry child.
all of these add costs that their competitors do not have to face and each new animal welfare measure results in more energy consumption and more co2 emissions.
and they thaw it, debon it, then they freeze it again and ship it back to europe, because the labor costs are so much cheaper in china, it's worth the huge energy costs of freezing, transporting, freezing and transporting the fish back to europe.
for every job lost in europe, hundreds of kilograms of co2 emissions are added.
the current trading system encourages the growth of co2 emissions.
more unemployed europeans equals more co2 emissions.
china has tripled its co2 emissions since kyoto because there are no sanctions attached to it.
the new wto rules are only acceptable if climate protection considerations are incorporated into them.
if they're not encouraging, but inhibiting the growth of co2 emissions.
in this sense, we wanted to increase competitiveness, including through research and development programmes, and we wanted to build on it, to contribute to it, in the common energy policy.
on the one hand, it is a tremendous waste of scarce resources; on the other hand, it is a prime example of distorting the rules of creative destruction in capitalism.
in addition, priority is given to improving the security of energy supply and transport, internal security, demographic challenges and climate change.
we therefore welcome the considerable successes achieved by parliament in the draft budget before us in relation to the economic recovery plan and the support for energy investments.
i would mention smart energy projects and support for lifelong learning.
the nearly €2 billion earmarked for energy projects is perhaps the most significant achievement the european parliament can make for itself.
they promote sustainable development, job creation.
− if we want to increase the sense of security of europeans in 2010, this budget must be implemented efficiently and skillfully, because that is why we have increased energy security, we are supporting job creation, we are introducing the microfinance facility.
we want to help the dairy industry, mitigate the harmful effects of climate change as much as possible.
energy efficiency, etc.)
in the context of the global recession, it is particularly important to provide new opportunities for citizens excluded from the labour market and the traditional credit market and to pave the way for stable and sustainable self-employment.
obviously there is also the southern caucasian energy corridor, which is a future lifeline for europe’s energy supplies.
not just because of geographical proximity, but partly because of russia's foreign policy thinking in its spheres of influence, and also because of its assessment of energy security.
at the beginning of the year, we were pleased to note that more than €3 billion had been earmarked for energy development under the eu's economic stimulus package presented at the time.
the european commission has rightly recognised the need to support both the creation of alternative transport routes and the interconnection of energy networks.
indeed, when looking at the actual amounts of aid, it is clear that the aid package neglects the central and eastern european region, which is the most vulnerable in terms of energy supply.
in addition to the above, we are also dissatisfied that energy efficiency improvements have been completely excluded from the aid package.
first, future aid schemes should focus on regions where energy investments have the greatest added value.
on the other hand, energy efficiency, which is often mentioned in eu circles, should not be overlooked in future budgetary decisions.
especially when we know that more efficient use of energy can bring spectacular results in the short term.
one of these questions is whether carbon dioxide allowances can be carried over beyond 2012 and sold then.
others have not kept their commitments and have even increased their emissions, but no one wants to punish them.
the second major achievement is that the eu has now agreed on a common position on climate negotiations.
remember that the union was only able to meet its targets because the new member states made significant reductions in emissions.
the situation is further complicated by new and powerful challenges such as climate change, demographic decline or the global economic recession.
priority should also be given to investments in education and training and sustainable employment, and to the implementation of complex programmes tailored to the specific needs of micro-regions.