– madam president, we are speaking in this chamber on the eve of a vote which is a critical one for agriculture, health and environment.
we have increased residues in our air, water and food, which affect our health and environment.
the intention of this legislation, which i applaud, is to protect our citizens’ health and environment and agriculture.
ireland has a unique temperate but wet climate.
in the present climate we cannot afford to decrease eu food production and be less competitive in our market-leading potential.
madam president, there are plenty of examples of sound eu environmental polices which improve the lives of citizens across the union and there are, of course, also many examples where unnecessarily bureaucratic measures come from the eu and restrict the potential to sustain our rural economy and way of life.
the lack of a thorough impact assessment, taking into account effects on our environment, health, economy and the sustainability of our rural communities, is testament to this failure to apply sufficient rigour.
the well-intentioned attempt to create a more sustainable countryside may ultimately undermine the countryside by imposing overly stringent rules on an already struggling farming population.
which will be more damaging to bees and the environment: the continued responsible use of pesticides as practised by irish farmers, or gm?
yes, there is a need to control the use of agrochemicals – we all accept that – and, if not used sustainably, they can be hazardous to the user and the environment.
any proposal must have balance for consumers, farmers and the environment, but we must also make sure that the correct information is made available to all of the stakeholders.
i particularly agree with the point that we need to adapt the cap to meet food security concerns and the fact that farmers need a stable policy environment in order to plan for the future.
madam president, one of the biggest concerns and one of the keys in relation to global food security is to ensure sufficient, sustainable production and, indeed, food security in the so-called developed world, such as here in the eu, so that we can export our surplus production and are not competing ourselves on world markets for food, thereby increasing the prices for those in regions who do not have the climate, the soil, the know-how and the investment to produce their own food.
we have to be very careful with our policies to ensure that we are responding not only environmentally but also globally to the necessity for sustainable food production.
madam president, i voted in favour of this compromise because it makes sense that we have sustainable use of pesticides.
i think the real problem is that there are such different rules across member states: some countries apply training and education of operators in a very strict way and, therefore, have good sustainable use of pesticides, but not all countries do so.
being on the market in itself is not a risk to the consumer, the environment or the user of such products.
pesticides are only hazardous if the handler does not know what he or she is doing, if the application equipment is faulty, if the aquatic environment is ignored or if they are improperly stored and not part of an integrated pest-management plan.
i felt that the report was, in general, very well-balanced and constructive, and it was certainly designed to ensure a high level of protection for human health, animal health and the environment.
i think we are now in a position where farmers need to lobby the agrochemical industry to produce safer alternatives so that they can continue to produce food, and i think as much energy should go into that lobby as has gone heretofore.
the five-year derogation, renewable if necessary for essential plant protection projects, is an important safety net and also encourages the agrochemical industry to research and produce alternatives.
this was the noticeable mistrust of farmers and an assumption by many that farmers are somehow enemies of health and the environment.
farmers in ireland are, and have been, stewards who for thousands of years have protected and preserved the environment, keeping it alive, clean and productive.
− securing sustainable food supply is one of the greatest challenges that faces us.
while securing sustainable food supply is one of our greatest challenges, the eu is one of the greatest success stories of recent times, having brought peace, stability and prosperity to the region.
the current european budget is still rather too rigid, recent examples being the negotiations for the food facility or the european recovery plan, especially in the current environment.
if we look at the consultation document, it lists tomorrow’s challenges as diversity, scientific and technical progress, the knowledge economy, climate change, energy security, but it does not mention food security.
we are talking about food for european citizens and incomes for those who live and manage the rural environment.
that is why it is important under the presidency now to expand this idea of partnership with the east, that we look to the east and to the balkans because they are the fault lines within the european union at the present time, not only because of political instability but also because of our interdependence on energy and economic activity.
in an environment of disrespect for the french, dutch and irish votes – and of people not allowed to vote – this respect was very welcome.
we need the more united democratic effective union offered by lisbon to face the many problems, any one of which can plunge our world into conflict: energy security, climate change, the economic and financial crisis, and the many wars in many regions.
recently, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety published a report which gave the maximum level as 2%, which is exactly what denmark was doing.
therefore, on the basis of the medical and scientific evidence, i call on the commission now to adopt fully the 2% threshold, which denmark’s system introduced and which is recommended in this report from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
another issue is how european producers – farmers – can be competitive when in the european union we have different, higher, standards of animal welfare in relation to the environment, which are not addressed at the wto.
madam president, we will never achieve either energy security or the 80% reduction in our carbon dioxide emissions by 2050 if we continue to effectively ignore both the issue of energy security and the critical importance of pan-european high-voltage direct current (hvdc) interconnection.
having had the opportunity last week to experience first hand the exciting solar thermal operations in grenada and seville, and having read over the weekend harvard professor michael mcelroy’s views on freeing the united states from its usd 750 billion annual bill for importing oil, winning the energy security battle in the us and at the same time saving the planet, i ask myself: what are we still debating?
we can no longer allow our citizens to be hostage to either energy politics or volatile oil prices.
wind energy is competitive with coal, oil and gas, and the fuel is free.
yes, our challenge is to build a new energy economy – an energy economy built on renewable electricity.
if we do not rapidly change from our almost total dependence on fossil fuels, it will, as our peer review climate scientists repeatedly and with increasing urgency point out, do just that: cost the earth through global warming.
madam president, i am touched by the words ‘smart’ and ‘intelligent’, which are very much part of this debate, because the solutions we try and use in our house to reduce energy consumption are certainly not working and they are neither smart nor very intelligent.
so we do need all of the things that others have spoken about: sensors and other technological advancements that will make everybody’s life easier in terms of achieving our energy efficiency objectives.
tonight’s debate is a massive one: it is about our climate change agenda, security of supply, solidarity between member states and also economic growth – and that is an issue for us at the moment – and how we can achieve a better use of our energy resources.
the country i come from, ireland, relies on oil for almost 60% of our energy needs and it is all imported.
that is quite a staggering percentage, and while we have not experienced the gas problems that other colleagues have spoken about, or the cold and the horror that caused for other member states, we did learn, from watching that, how critical it is that we do something about our energy mix and our energy insecurity.
madam president, energy policy and foreign policy are inextricably interlinked now more than ever.
we see the need for a common eu energy policy in the light of the recent developments regarding gas supplies in central and eastern europe but, whilst it is one of the key innovations of the lisbon treaty, i regret to point out that this point was not highlighted sufficiently in the debates surrounding the treaty’s ratification.
on 28 january last, the commission published a proposal to accelerate work on addressing deficits in the eu energy infrastructure while contributing to economic recovery as part of a eur 5 billion package.
it further emphasises that when all 27 member states work together we can bring about the change that is required to ensure security of energy supply.
mr president, to many colleagues a target of a 95% reduction in co2 emissions by 2050 may seem extreme but, if we are to accept – as i do – the peer-reviewed science as represented by the latest ipcc report, that level of reduction will be required if we are to keep the 2°c increase in global warming in our sights.
i voted in favour of this report because it talks about sensible issues like energy efficiency and energy security related to the climate change agenda.
so, yes, we need research into the safe disposal of nuclear waste and into new developments of this technology to enhance the safety and security of it.
− mep queiró has responded to the commission’s communication ‘an agenda for sustainable future in general and business aviation’ and has highlighted several areas where policy considerations for the non-commercial air transport sector in general and business aviation have additional impact.
ensuring safety, while ensuring that environmental concerns are met by the sector in a responsible manner, both in reducing noise pollution and reducing the volume of emissions generated, is a primary concern.
− my colleague mr harbour has presented an own-initiative report regarding increasing innovation in europe to ensure sustainable and high-quality public services.
pre-commercial procurement is a specific approach for the public sector to engage r&d, with a view to driving innovation to ensure sustainable high quality public services in europe.
the scope of public services concerned covers health care, education, security, climate change and energy efficiency, all issues which benefit the entirety of society.
it will help to construct more modern energy networks which will fully protect security of energy supplies into ireland into the future.
the european union is also going to financially support new projects in the field of alternative energy, and this includes the wind energy sector.
as a member of the european parliament's environment committee i have witnessed the growing dispute about energy supply.
we all must reflect on what has been happening for a number of weeks now concerning energy supplies coming from russia into the eu via the ukraine.
the reality is that we in the eu need to break down our absolute dependence on russian energy supplies.
we need to develop other energy sectors
in writing.
in other policy areas – agriculture, the environment, external aid, development and enlargement, research, energy and transport, education and citizenship – the error rate (i use the word ‘error’) was between 2% and 5% and the auditors observed that there was a ‘disproportionately’ (that is their word) large error rate for rural development, which now represents 20% of farm spending and is increasing.
the commission is currently finalising a draft joint report on social protection and social inclusion for 2009, which will send a clear signal on the need to ensure the long-term adequacy and sustainability of pensions, to make healthcare delivery more efficient and to reduce health inequalities.
as legislators, it is paramount, in the midst of a massive economic downturn, that we work on results for green energy technology.
we can become world leaders in our diverse renewable energy fields, which should create a tight, effective and coordinated strategy – including governments, ngos, academia, business, forward-thinkers – seeking not to talk but to solve.
we have set the targets for renewable energy.
the market is clear, so it is a magnificent opportunity for job creation, electricity price reduction, energy security and carbon emission reduction, not to mention patent revenues.
madam president, the time for talking is over and we know what needs to be done – at least those of us who accept the peer-reviewed science on the causes of the unprecedented rate of global warming and its critical impacts on all aspects of biodiversity, particularly on the poorest and most populated regions of our world.
to my climate-sceptic friends, could i say that the precautionary principle should be considered.
it adds to our sum of knowledge, representing, as it does, the horizontal views across a range of committees in this house, with one serious omission – that of the committee on fisheries, given the critical importance of the increasing acidification of our seas and oceans from increased co2 emissions in the atmosphere.
in conclusion, our target must be at least a 30% decrease in co2 emissions by 2020 as part of a post-2012 global agreement, with at least an 80% decrease by 2050 – and that is the more important target.
the result of the next eight months of climate diplomacy will write the text of our history books for generations and, as political leaders in our own communities and collectively, we cannot renege on our responsibility.
commissioner, our climate and energy package must be accompanied by realistic funds, and we look to the summit in march – in six weeks’ time – for our 27 leaders of state and government to be on-message and not to let us, the citizens of the eu, and the poorest and most climate-vulnerable communities in our world, down.
madam president, several paragraphs and sections of the florenz report, especially paragraph 190, relate to agriculture’s contribution to climate change.
while low or conservation tillage is an option in most eu states and has economic as well as climate change benefits – and deserves far more support, in my view – the agricultural debate and research concentrate largely on the methane and nitrous oxide contributions of ruminant livestock.
while progress is being made, i do not support member states having to meet their non-trading sectors’ targets for emissions reductions by the compulsory reduction of europe’s cattle herds.
one kilo of beef produced in brazil results in six times the carbon dioxide emissions of one kilo of beef produced in ireland.
i would reinforce the point that the european union has considerably reduced its livestock production due to cap reforms in the past, that we are now net importers of beef and that beef is produced elsewhere with the climate change concerns attached to it.
finally i support the idea in this report of a specific year targeted towards providing information and dealing with the issue of climate change in a way which brings people along with us.
− i was happy to support the final report from the temporary committee on climate change.
today’s report from mr florenz is based on scientific principles and maps out the challenges that face our society in various fields like transport, land-use, energy and waste management.
the current economic crisis should not be used as an excuse to row back on our climate commitments.
some less progressive forces have tried to use the economic downturn as an excuse to renege on the necessary climate commitments.
this should be seen not only as the cynical ploy it is, coming from forces not in the least bit interested in facing up to the realities of climate change, but also as short-sighted in the extreme.
clean and renewable energy sources should be the basis of our energy supply, not the dangerous short-term folly of nuclear power.
has there been any discussion in council about trying to get member states to provide financial incentives for increasing energy efficiency, in particular for elderly people?
on the one hand it would increase energy efficiency, and on the other hand it would provide employment.
i would like to ask him this: under lisbon, we were talking about a common energy policy; maybe he could outline, in his capacity as president-in-office, his opinions on the improved tool kit which lisbon provides to address these challenges in the future and the advantages of adopting the whole lisbon approach and treaty.
− mr president, the commission is fully aware of the high risks of polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) for human health and the environment.
over the past three decades, the eu has established legislation to decrease the release of pcbs and dioxins into the environment, with the objective of reducing human exposure and protecting human health and the environment.
in particular, the directive on the disposal of pcbs, directive 96/59/ec of september 1996, provides the appropriate tools to ensure the disposal of equipment and waste containing pcbs as soon as possible, and for large equipment before the end of 2010. however, there remain significant gaps in the full implementation of this legislation.
in order to ensure the efficiency of pcb disposal plans, member states have to further improve the implementation of existing legislation on pcbs and of european waste legislation in general.
the commission is placing increasing importance on the proper implementation of eu waste legislation, and is actively supporting member states in enhancing the implementation of their national waste legislation.
the breadcrumbs were produced from bakery waste (out-of-date biscuits), which are dried using a direct heating process.
but it also raises another question, which you have alluded to, and that is how we handle waste or surplus food.
everybody is in favour of it because we all want to be environmentally friendly and sustainable.
of waste oils, though obviously there is a particular worry about pcbs.
regarding surplus food – or waste food as it is sometimes called – my own view is that it is appropriate that we use this product in the animal feed chain, but i want to say very clearly that, if we cannot guarantee its safety and how it is processed and handled, then i am afraid we may need to look at banning this in the food and feed chain.
what we want is for this surplus or waste food to be used because it is good quality, not because the animal feed chain is a dumping ground for it – i think that is an important point.
my other question relates to the management plan which the environmental protection agency in ireland is belatedly putting in place in 2008 where it talks about the code of practice, which the plan also includes, for the in-use management of pcbs and pcb containing equipment.
against the backdrop of the current economic climate and the rising cost of food prices, it is critical that we do our utmost in ireland to defend the irish pigmeat sector, which operates to the highest european union and international standards.
i do not understand how that happened, because we have really worked so hard on the committee on the environment; you have worked so hard to achieve traceability, and yet when the chips were down, those systems were not used.
we urgently need more investment in research, especially into ruminant feed to reduce the methane and nitrous oxide emissions.
secondly, is it not long past the time for reference points for action or rpas for dealing with the adventitious presence of minuscule levels of gmo in feed, rather than the present zero-tolerance regime, which results in criminally disproportionate waste of feed and cereal shipments and criminally disproportionate sanctions?
secondly, while the proposed increase in funding to 60%, and to 70% for fruit and vegetable promotion, would be very welcome in the current economic environment, realistically the incentive to expand generic promotion may be limited as contributors and non-contributors alike will benefit from the programmes.
they must be frozen now and eventually dismantled; otherwise there will never be a sustainable peace in the middle east, mr solana.
it is of critical importance to mainstream the use of renewable energy including wind, hydro, various solar technologies and others.
if the wind is not blowing off the north-west coast of ireland – and ireland has been described as the saudi arabia of europe in terms of wind energy!
this scenario is a win-win for the mediterranean region, for energy security, for energy politics and above all for serious regional decrease in our carbon dioxide emissions from our current dependence on fossil fuels for industries, transport and heating and cooling.
i note that hilary benn, the uk environment secretary, and the shadow secretary have called for clearer labelling.
i would like to propose that this period be expanded in order to maximise many economic, safety and environmental benefits which are associated with the summer time period.
there is already clear evidence that this has helped reduce both energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions.
in fact, a report by the united states department of energy found that extending daylight saving time by four weeks saved enough electricity to power some 100 000 homes per annum.
similarly, a recent study by the university of cambridge also suggests that increasing summer time would lead to a decrease in both energy consumption and carbon-dioxide emissions, as, during the peak demand period from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. each day, many of the more expensive and carbon-emitting ancillary power stations are switched on.
as the rapporteur of the review of the eu ets, which formed the cornerstone of the eu’s climate and energy package adopted last december by this house, i urge you to consider this proposal as a contribution to meeting the 2°c target.
the construction sector badly needs a boost – renovations, repairs, and installations will help achieve energy efficiency, as well as helping employment.
this is crucial as smes make up 99% of all european enterprises, but the sector is suffering in the current climate.
i believe that strengthening and supporting the sme sector is key in getting our economies back on their feet and building for a sustainable economic and social future.
the commission will know that three ‘f’ gases are among the six major greenhouse gases.
this would mean that the deadline for prohibition of the use of r134a would now be 2017 rather than 2011. hence, the avoidance of tonnes of co2 equivalent emissions will no longer happen.
for example the vca, which is the type approval authority in the uk, has recently stated that it will approve, after january 2011, new types of vehicles fitted with existing – already approved to regulation (ec) no 706/2007 standards – macs containing ‘f’ gases with a gwp greater than 150. as a consequence, we have evidence of car manufacturers delaying – if not stopping altogether – development and investment in innovative sustainable technology.
on the issue of large combustion plants, the eu ets operation today does not safeguard against design lock-in of unnecessary pollution in many new high-cost and high-emitting installations, particularly in new coal-fired plants, which, when built, would expect to operate for over 40 years, thus making it difficult and more expensive to meet overall climate goals.
the latest science shows us that we need to have stricter emission limits over a shorter timetable if we are to achieve the 2°c target which, by our vote on the climate and energy package in december, we as a parliament accept as necessary for environmental, social and the economic future of society.
the ets alone will not be enough to cut electricity-sector emissions on the scale required.
agriculture must be monitored for its emissions, but i do not accept that we should do it in this way.
i repeat my suggestion that, when it comes to agriculture, there is a myriad of directives covering emissions and pollution control in this sector, and so maybe it is time we looked at recasting all of those so that farmers who are required to implement them can fully understand and appreciate what they are meant to do.
we made some progress in the amendments in relation to agricultural issues in general, but my vote in the end was to abstain, rather than vote against, because there is much in this report around the environment, about power generation and emissions, of which i am in favour.
all new vehicles manufactured in the union will be subject to compliance with the technical requirements and measures which will reduce their environmental impact, decrease associated noise pollution and increase their road safety.
these innovations will help to reduce co2 emissions, fuel consumption and noise pollution.
industrial activities covered by existing directives emit 55% of the eu's co2 emissions, 83% of so2 and 34% of nox.
under the current directive, permits are issued by the environment protection agency which require industrial plants to apply "best available techniques".
while i certainly support many of the comments contained in the report on the small business act, i was very disappointed that the report that emerged from the committee on industry, research and energy contained a paragraph calling for a common consolidated corporate tax base.
vitally important is the introduction of means of using the present crisis to respond to the environmental crisis by increasing efficiency, through thorough environmental management systems.
essentially this package will deliver safer vessels, meaning a lower risk of environmental disasters and loss of sea life.
mr president, i would like to reiterate, on the record, in relation to this most important maritime package, recital 3 of the review of the eu-ets directive, which was passed by an overwhelming majority; this directive deals with our carbon dioxide emission reduction targets and the timetable for same.
in the event that no international agreement including international maritime emissions in its reduction targets through the imo has been approved by member states and/or no such agreement through the unfccc has been approved by 31 december 2011, the commission should make a proposal to include international maritime emissions according to harmonised modalities in the community reduction commitment with the aim of its entry into force by 2013. such a proposal should minimise any negative impact on eu competitiveness taking into account the potential environmental benefits.’ comments please, commissioner.
− the european commission considers that turkey is sufficiently prepared to start negotiations on the energy chapter and has therefore recommended that this chapter be opened in spring 2007. our viewpoint has not changed on this subject.
in the context of the recent energy crisis, we fully agree with you that both the union's and turkey's interests would be better served by close cooperation and alignment of turkey with community energy legislation.
the opening of negotiations on energy would make a decisive contribution to this objective.
we also have to take into account that for pork production the situation is totally different to the end of 2007 because today the feed input prices, and the energy prices, are considerably lower than when we introduced the export refunds for the pigmeat sector.
madam president, with the backdrop of the global economic and financial crisis and the multi-billion stimulus packages, there is a huge opportunity to increase energy efficiency, to increase energy security from reliable renewable sources and to drive green technology in a green ‘new deal’.
i welcome the two alternatives for innovative funding for combating global climate change in the recent commission communication.
this december declaration states: ‘the european council recalls that member states will determine, in accordance with their respective constitutional and budgetary requirements, the use of revenues generated from the auctioning of allowances in the eu emissions trading system.
it takes note of their willingness to use at least half of this amount for actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, mitigate and adapt to climate change, for measures to avoid deforestation, to develop renewable energies, energy efficiency, as well as other technologies contributing to the transition to a safe and sustainable low-carbon economy, including through capacity-building, technology transfers, research and development.’ it continues.
‘in the context of an international agreement on climate change in copenhagen in 2009, and for those who wish so, part of this amount will be used to enable and finance actions to mitigate and adapt to climate change in developing countries that will have ratified this agreement, in particular in least-developed countries.
paragraph 20, line 3 should read: ‘reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation’.
at the moment it reads ‘reducing emissions for deforestation and degradation’.
madam president, while the amended version was an improvement, it was still with a heavy heart that i supported this own-initiative report, since it was not consistent with the climate and energy package carried by a huge majority in this house on 17 december 2008. just to remind us, my own eu-ets report, which was the cornerstone of this package, was carried by 610 votes for, 60 abstentions, and 29 against.
past months have shown that the importance of energy security has never been as acute.
the cooperation that is necessary across the eu, and the need to take advantage of the stimulus packages currently launched by almost all member states and the commission, underscore the need for investment in renewables to increase our energy security, to decrease our carbon emissions and to wean us off our high dependence on fossil fuel, albeit over an agreed timeline.
− we welcome the shift in emphasis in this resolution, and some of the positive proposals in relation to regulation of the financial sector, innovation, energy efficiency and investment, as well as acknowledgement of the need to protect employment, create jobs, combat poverty and focus on the most vulnerable groups in society.
the recent revision of the directive from the commission proposes additional amendments to the directive; such as cost assessment for the environmental impact of hgvs (heavy goods vehicles) in terms of noise pollution, congestion and air pollution.
the construction of a port tunnel in dublin city has done much to reduce the need for hgvs to be in the city centre, and has increased the quality of air and reduced noise pollution.
as the past months have shown, the importance of energy security has never been as acute.
the cooperation that is necessary from all member states (ms) and the need to take advantage of the stimulus packages currently launched by almost all ms and the commission underscore the need for investment in renewable technology to increase our energy security and decrease our co2 emissions.
we can not shy away from the challenges both economic and environmental with which we are currently faced.
an essential part of the response to climate change is an alteration in our means and methods of transportation, be it in the adoption of advanced hybrid vehicles, in increased green public transportation or the increased efficiency of other methods of transportation.
the rapporteur has advanced the options of charging heavy goods vehicles (hgvs) for the pollution they cause and including noise pollution caused by rail transport under the provisions of the report.
while the current crisis is undoubtedly devastating, it also offers opportunity: opportunity to change our way of thinking; opportunity to build a strengthening framework for sustainable growth that can withstand potential shocks; and opportunity to build a sound economic and social base for the future.
similarly, the emphasis on innovation – especially in the environmental sector – is very welcome and an illustration that the twin goals of energy efficiency and economic stability need by no means be mutually exclusive.
i would like to recall for the presidency-in-office that at the summit meeting last december all heads of state or government agreed to a declaration which said inter alia that, in the context of an international agreement on climate change in copenhagen in 2009, for those who wished to do so, part of the auction revenues would be used to enable and finance actions to mitigate and adapt to climate change in developing countries which have ratified the agreement, in particular the least developed countries.
madam president, the promotion of a sustainable workforce for health across in europe is crucial in continuing our improvement in health-care services and facilities across the 27 member states.
mr president, i fully endorse paragraph 1(e) of this report, which talks about the need for a partnership tackling the major issues of climate change, energy security and the fight against poverty and exclusion.
as rapporteur on eu ets i am only too well aware of the critical role of research and the need to nurture the talent and minds available to solve the considerable climate challenges with which we are faced.
(applause)
mr president, i am rising on the issue of breaches of environmental law in ireland, specifically relating to water quality.
on the issue of the pollution of drinking water with a toxic ingredient called fluoride.
i think that, when we most need to chart this new way forward, of course we can speak about the carbon-neutral economy, the jobs created from that – this is very important – as well as retraining and reskilling, which are vitally important.
i am very pleased about the proposals which are being made in the context of the energy crisis and climate control and, in particular, the role of the eib in this.
i welcome the general thrust of the intent of the banks, particularly in relation to climate control and energy, and i hope the house will support the main thrust of the report which i have brought forward.
in the present economic environment it will not be easy to borrow for new equipment and training.
madam president, additional measures for the protection of the ozone layer were adopted by the parties to the montreal protocol at their conference of the parties (cop) meeting in september 2007. these will now be incorporated in this recast regulation to accelerate the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances (ods) and to further limit exempted uses of these substances.
this recast regulation is essentially about bans and restrictions on the production, import, export, placing on the market, use, recovery, recycling, reclamation and destruction of these ozone-depleting substances.
the montreal protocol has been one of the most successful international environmental initiatives to date, with the result that the 1980s level of the depletion of the ozone layer has been largely reversed.
due to the phase-outs on the use of these ozone-depleting gases – cfcs, hcfcs, halons, methyl bromide, with very few time-limited exceptions for certain ‘critical uses’, for example halons in fire-protection equipment in aeroplanes – there has been a 95% reduction in the consumption of ods compared to the 1980s.
these substances, we must remind ourselves, also have a global-warming potential.
the ozone layer is one of the two layers of the atmosphere that protect life on earth.
specifically, the ozone layer provides protection from harmful ultraviolet radiation from the sun, which causes multiple illnesses and problems including skin cancer and cataracts.
finally, these agreements are in need of a revision clause that would require an assessment of the sustainable development impact and the possibility to amend the agreement based on the findings of this assessment.
it is time we ended this waste.
we are now faced with the opening of hitherto closed seaways, a direct result of climate change.
this highly vulnerable ecosystem is coming under increasing pressure from resource-hungry nations which wish to exploit its potential without having due regard to its fundamental importance as a stabilising force in the world’s climate.
the arctic is critical for global climate, and for this reason alone we must be part of a new style of governance for this beautiful and – as the previous speaker said – one of the last wildernesses of our world.
madam president, i welcome the proposal for an amendment to the european region development fund (erdf) regulation to claim erdf funding for energy efficiency and renewable energy investments in housing.
what do we mean by energy efficiency (and we are talking about it under the erdf funding)?
will there be a harmonised method of calculating energy efficiency across the eu-27, or will there be different calculations and different considerations in the different member states?
when we are talking energy efficiency and investment in energy efficiency in private housing, for example, will that mean what it means under the energy performance of buildings directive, which is currently under discussion at the moment and where there is a debate around a need for harmonised – or a single basis of – calculation, running the numbers, in fact, on energy efficiency to be sure that the investment is being spent on real energy efficiency or increasing energy efficiency or reducing co2 emissions issues?
this is part of the debate that we had this morning at an sme union breakfast hosted by my colleague paul rübig, when we were told very clearly that there are bottlenecks in getting spending on energy efficiency throughout buildings: bottlenecks in finance due to the credit crunch for loans.
actually, as we speak, i must put on record that our government has recently launched the home energy saving retrofit grant scheme.
we need promotion so that the investment will not only just reduce the import of fossil fuels and reduce carbon dioxide emissions, but so that the household will realise the reduction in energy costs to them also.
the question of setting mrls for certain biocidal products such as disinfectants used in the animal environment was also agreed on, particularly in regard to the financing aspects of their authorisation and their dossiers.
climate change is one of the top priorities for europe, as well as for the rest of the world.
this enables people to help the environment directly and to reduce emissions in their everyday living and buying.
labelling is a clear and simple measure to promote energy efficiency, ethical production and development of greener technologies.
these deal with very important areas of eco-management and ecolabelling, the whole area of reduction of waste, reduction of water use and hopefully the reduction of food waste.
so-called ‘best-before dates’ are often far too conservative, resulting in wanton waste through the discarding of otherwise perfectly edible products.
in the mean time, the environment dg sent the european parliament a horizontal proposal on the community ecolabel scheme covering all products including fishing and aquaculture products, as well as processed agricultural products.
− i support this report which modifies the european regional development fund in order to permit and facilitate energy efficiency and renewable energies interventions in the housing sector in all member states.
the "european economic recovery plan" put as priority areas the lisbon strategy and energy (with a special attention of energy efficiency in buildings).
therefore member states are encouraged to reprogramme their structural funds operational programmes in order to devote a better balance to energy efficiency investments, including where they fund social housing.
under the current regulatory framework, european regional development fund supported interventions in the housing sector, including energy efficiency, but it was reserved only for member states acceded to the european union on or after 1 may 2004. the modification to the regulation seeks to permit and extend this possibility targeting low income households in all member states.
voluntarily, we have taken it upon ourselves to improve our environmental performance on a day-to-day basis.
by reducing our environmental footprint in ways such as turning the lights off, smart metering, sensor lights, and less paper use, the european parliament works to be environmentally sound.
a yes vote today for the extension of emas means a yes for more environmental awareness in the member states.
this plan looks to recognise and reward proactive organisations that go beyond what environmental laws expect of them and that are constantly improving the way they interact with the environment.
mr president, i welcome these measures to encourage selective fishing practices, which minimise harm to the complex ecosystem in which the resources are found, while enabling responsible fishing to continue, and to maximise returns while minimising by-catches and subsequent discards.
obviously, the environment is the major area where complaints come to us from citizens of the european union.
the long-term effects are even more serious, since deforestation, of which illegal logging is a major cause, accounts for nearly a fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions.
our own experience in ireland has shown how liberalisation and resulting privatisation have not provided solutions to any problems in the energy sector.
energy prices in ireland have risen, affecting ordinary families and workers the most over the last few years.
i regret that the 'energy package' has won so much support among meps today.
− nuclear energy is a reality in europe.
it is a reality that we in ireland are not comfortable with, but we accept the right of all countries to choose their own energy mix, and the fact that our neighbours utilise nuclear power means that we cannot afford to ignore the issue.
we should use them as european houses, making it known to citizens when there is a consultation where they can give their views on the common agricultural policy or trade or environment policy.
i thank you, because it means the czech government has come a long way on climate change matters since the start of its presidency.
i fully agree with what you say, by the way, on the carbon market and its contribution.
personally, i regret the removal of the reference to the waste incineration directive, but i do not have time to expand on that here.
silence lends assent, so i would just like to say that energy-efficient light bulbs are not a danger to the public if properly handled by the consumer, by the householder, and if produced in a proper working environment where the health of the employees and the environment are both respected.
thirdly, the whole area of sustainability, with people who are already at work given protection and certain support now to make sure that they do not lose their jobs and then have to go through the cycle of retraining and upskilling in another year or two’s time to get another job; to maintain the existing jobs that are there.
if europe’s commitment to a social market economy is real, we must integrate economic, social and environmental policies as equal elements of the whole package.
however, some of our member states are clearly incapable of thinking outside the economic box, which considers social and environmental policy costly luxuries to be dropped as a restriction on the market.
in the event that any of the projects which have been nominated specifically under the recovery plan are not in a position to draw down the funding by the deadline of 30 june 2010, will you have what i will refer to as a reserve list of projects that are ready to go, so that the money will actually go into this sector, to energy efficiency and low energy?
commissioner, you have already pointed out in your response that there is a saving in economic terms because of the efficiency in energy, but now we need to move on to the next step.
rather than just promoting sustainability and energy efficiency, we need to utilise the funds to create new ways of creating energy to make cities even more self-sufficient, rather than importing fuel or building nuclear power stations, as we were saying previously.
as i asked one of your colleagues before, could i have assurances now, as we approach the critical meeting that will be the unfcc cop-15 in copenhagen this december, that we will have the enthusiastic support of the czech government for an adequate and fully equitable global agreement to reduce carbon emissions worldwide?
you started your presidency with the reputation of being climate-sceptics.
can you confirm now that you are converts and that you fully agree with the legislative climate and energy package that was passed overwhelmingly last december by this parliament?
mr president, we will not overcome the deep financial, economic and jobs crisis – or climate change – as independent, protectionist nation states.
we need more integration of our social and economic and climate and energy policies, with the objective of job retention and creation with decent living and working conditions.
we need a breakthrough in the climate change summit in december.
secondly, with regard to brazil, russia, india and china, which are huge producers of co2 emissions and other emissions, what role will they play, and what pressures can we in the european union put on them to meet the same standards that we are demanding of our own?
actions must be taken now that will manage, not just the current difficulties, but are long-term and will ensure a sustainable and successful industry into the future.
– milk quotas need to be cut by between 5 to 10 per cent in order to push prices back up to a sustainable level.
the world needs a more effective union to ensure that we can vigorously pursue the objectives of a sustainable development economically, environmentally and socially.
madam president, we must look at the opportunities that can flow from striking a comprehensive international agreement in copenhagen so that we can effectively arrest climate change.
the union is committing to ensuring that 20% of all our energy needs will come from the renewable energy sector by 2020. europe – and indeed my own country, ireland – can become world leaders in developing new and innovative wave and tidal technologies.
the development of such technologies is a vital component of our strategies to achieve our climate change targets.
madam president, the issue of food security needs to be mentioned in this debate on climate change, for the developing world in particular.
it is very difficult to ask people to look at climate change mitigation if their basic needs for food are not met.
we need to allow them to use the best available technology to produce, in a sustainable way, food which does not harm the environment, and to tackle the issue of climate change.
we obviously need a global agreement which tackles climate change but we also need to recognise the very serious issue of food security.
so climate change and global poverty will have to be tackled hand in hand.
– negotiations for a new global climate agreement are now on a knife edge.
the us seems unable to pass legislation to curb its excessive co2 emissions.
europeans have a historic responsibility to clean up the climate mess we helped create.
it is actually our reckless abandon of the environment that has led to this dangerous changing of our climate.
this is not only an environmental issue and it is not just an economic issue, but also an issue of international social justice.
i join my colleagues in supporting calls for europe to make a real offer of financing to the developing world to help it fight climate change, in order to break the deadlock in the current negotiations.
this financing must be new and additional (the existing promises of 0.7% should not be touched) and it must be adequate enough to allow developing countries to fight climate change, with the necessary mitigation and adaption measures.
our economies will recover, but our environment will not...
in writing.
− i support the conclusion of the statute of the international renewable energy agency by the european community.
the international renewable energy agency aims to become a centre of excellence for renewable energy, which will enable it to help governments harness renewable energy sources, to disseminate know-how and best practice, and to provide training in this field.
these people are suffering doubly: they are also suffering from the consequences of climate change.
madam president, recently the irish government decided to scrap the reps scheme for farmers: that is the rural environmental protection scheme.
democratisation and good governance are not only ends in themselves but are vital for poverty reduction, sustainable development, peace and stability.
instead of using natural products to create a better, healthy environment for those people who want to train in sports, they are using supplements such as growth hormones condensed into certain drinks and high-performance drinks, which are sold on the basis that they give you extra pep or extra zip but, in reality, cause huge health problems.
i have great hopes that this service can lead to greater coherence between our policy objectives and decisions, particularly as they impact globally on sustainable development, on human rights, and on the eradication of poverty.
this is not a sustainable situation for one of europe's key industries.
our european leaders had the chance to make a just and credible offer of financing to the developing world to cover the costs of climate change, which is affecting their countries the most but is caused by us in the developed world.
this summit did not meet the standard set by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of this parliament and by civil society around the world, which have called for no less than eur 30 billion to be pledged by the eu and, crucially, for a firm commitment that this would be new and additional to existing overseas development aid.
copenhagen or no copenhagen, climate change will be with us for decades to come.
what we should have at the end of this crisis is a more sustainable economy with decent work, with quality public services and fair globalisation, moving towards the implementation of the millennium development goals.
as a member of the committee on environment, public health and food safety, i am used to investing time and effort in an issue now in order to benefit future generations.
university college cork is also closed as a result of unprecedented flooding – perhaps as a result of the climate change which we speak about so often here in parliament.
secondly, there is a need for an educational programme for citizens, as many of them have the willingness to reduce their carbon footprint but may not have the know-how or the economic means.
as other colleagues have said, if we could accentuate the positives, both for economies and for citizens, in the climate change debate, there might be more traction – because there are positive sides to this debate.
we have to link this debate with our concerns about global food security: the answer is to develop sustainable production systems which manage the climate and also provide us with food security.
the eu has succeeded in reducing emissions.
we have reduced them by half to where we should be in all circumstances by 2020, and to one third if we are to achieve what we all hope will also be the outcome of the copenhagen agreement, namely a 30% reduction in emissions for the eu.
i would also like to say that the global financial crisis was certainly not due to too much effort to save the climate.
the carbon markets are really the way to create enough room for investment, which means that the polluter pays, we cap emissions and the money that the polluters pay for emissions can also be transferred to developing countries to make green investments there.
i think that is good and important, but we also need to reform these rules so that the environmental impact is even greater and clearer, and so that we can be even more certain that this also reaches the poorest of the poor.
an agreement will also be necessary to avoid carbon leakage.
i cannot understand why anyone would prefer polluting old technology industries which, if they make a profit, it is because they do not pay the cost of pollution; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i would also like to make a comment on the world environment organization; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
this can be done relatively easily by upgrading the existing united nations environment programme; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
i am happy about the performance of the european union, because all 15 countries that have a collective target of reducing their co2 emissions by 8% over the period 2008-2012 will meet their target, but the europe of 27, with the 10 new countries that have a target and cyprus and malta that do not, will also meet the target.
the european union thus has the moral argument that what we say we do, and this has undoubtedly been the case with the measures we have taken either at national or european level, including the carbon trading system.
i will mention only one number: between 1990 and 2007, the period for which we have data, economic growth was 44 percent and the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions for the 15 countries was 5 percent, for the 27 countries it was 9 percent.
and of course the projections are that by 2012 we will have far exceeded the target, which also makes it easier for us to achieve the 30% reduction target by 2020. it should be noted that in 2008 we also had a significant reduction in greenhouse gases in the european union by 1.6%, while economic growth continued, and only in the latter part of 2008 we had the economic crisis which also had an impact on the issue of greenhouse gases.
after consultation of the ecofin council, the environment council and the european council, we now have a clear mandate to put forward specific proposals on the sources of funding, on the organisational structures and the criteria to be used in order to determine the serious contributions from all.
it is also a general belief that the main foundations of a climate agreement for the period after 2012 will and must be laid in copenhagen.
these pillars are mainly ambitious emission reduction commitments by developed countries, including the united states, adequate measures by developed countries to reduce their emissions growth, and financial assistance to developing countries to mitigate their own emissions and adapt to climate change.
all these elements must be agreed in copenhagen in a binding way and then, in the next three to six months at the latest, they must be legally processed so that we have the binding agreement which is the aim of the european union and which will secure the objective of limiting the greenhouse effect to 2° celsius.
while flooding has always been a fact of life in ireland, its increasing frequency and severity is another real reminder of the effects of climate change caused by the reckless abuse of our environment.
no matter what happens at the un climate conference in less than two weeks in copenhagen, extreme weather conditions, like the flooding in ireland, will become more frequent.
we must build up our resilience to the effects of climate change.
this issue is also addressed in the regulation laying down general provisions on the structural funds and the cohesion fund and in the regional aid guidelines for the period 2007-2013 in order to ensure that these investments make a real and sustainable contribution to regional development.
− it is extremely important that the eu takes action and becomes a world leader in reducing carbon emissions approaching the copenhagen summit.
the parliament has already shown more ambition than the member states in relation to a reduction in carbon emissions, and today’s resolution is to be welcomed with calls for real financing, calls for strong targets in the high end from 25-40% in line with the science, and the insistence on a legally binding agreement.
− the effects of climate change are being felt now: temperatures are rising, icecaps and glaciers are melting and extreme weather events are becoming more frequent and more intense.
the un estimates that all but one of its emergency appeals for humanitarian aid in 2007 were climate related.
we need a global energy revolution towards a sustainable economic model, which provides for environmental quality to go hand in hand with economic growth, wealth creation and technological advancement.
ireland's per capita carbon emission is 17.5 tonnes per annum.
by 2050 this will need to be reduced to 1 or 2 tonnes of carbon.
clearly, this means radical change in the production and consumption of energy.
the response to climate change lies in strong international governance and financial commitment.
indeed, climate change will require increased investment in the public sector.
we expect europe to lead the way on climate change in copenhagen; we could do similar good work with the ratification of all ilo conventions.
can i make one very simple point, which seems to escape many: it is farmers who will feed the world if they are given the right climate – and i mean that in the broadest context – to do that particular job.
first, the link between hunger and climate change.
as ban ki-moon said in rome, at a time when the global population is growing and our global climate is changing, by 2050 we will need to produce 70% more food, yet the weather is becoming more extreme and unpredictable.
so any positive efforts we make on climate change will impact positively on food production.
those principles must be based on consumer safety and trust, protection of the environment and – vitally – a fair playing field for producers of meat.
i also worry about how we can account for issues like water management, climate change and biodiversity.
the resolution calls for the commission to conduct a full impact assessment of the eu's policies and programmes in the areas of agriculture, development and trade in order to guarantee a coherent, sustainable policy approach to global food security.
as the resolution stated everyone has the right to safe and nutritious food, the european union must act to ensure these policies can deliver sustainable food security.
however, in order for such engagement to remain a sustainable option, dialogue and cooperation need to show tangible results.
i am also proud to say that i am part of a european union that is leading the climate change debate and influencing others to do the same.