there's an overuse of chemicals in agriculture that's hurting everyone: the food, the environment, the farmers who have to pay dearly for these industrial products.
the misuse of chemicals is linked to an old model, that of agriculture based on quantity rather than quality, in which products are separated by territories, seasons and work, a model which is costly for everyone, a model which is also harmful because of its impact on the greenhouse effect.
these regulations which we approve must therefore be incorporated in the construction of a healthier and more modern model of quality agriculture which is useful to the citizens and the environment with more work and more income.
if priority should therefore be given to non-chemical methods, to the protection and integrity of soil and water resources, avoiding any contamination of a common good such as water, then these individual countries must have a sense of this great responsibility in reducing the sustainable use of pesticides.
the commission's - and therefore the eu's - failure to do this does not help solve the problems of urban transport and citizens' mobility or those related to air pollution in cities.
we know that 40% of co2 emissions are attributable to urban transport and that 70% of other transport pollutants are urban, nor are those related to road safety: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
from city to city in urban environmental standards?
the problems in urban mobility are significant and growing and affect many citizens and businesses, which are confronted with traffic safety problems, with limited accessibility of public transport, with congestion and health problems caused by pollution.
however, cities also generate 40% of co2 emissions, and two out of three road accidents take place in urban areas.
sustainable urban mobility is therefore a key element to achieve our goals with respect to climate change, economic growth and road safety.
we can help foster markets for new technologies, for example clean and energy-efficient vehicles, and facilitate harmonised standards for broad market introduction of new technologies.
once the directive on the promotion of clean and energy efficient road transport vehicles comes into force, around march, we will initiate the development of an internet site to facilitate joint clean vehicle procurement.
finally, to help increasing knowledge on sustainable mobility policies, we will launch a study on aspects related to green zones and a study on the opportunities for making public transport systems more interoperable.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i very much agree with the comments made by my predecessors: the urban environment is now a fundamental part of all of our lives, and not just for those living in large or medium-sized cities.
the figures have not changed in recent months, and we must take account of the growing problems of congestion in the big cities and the critical environmental issues that are still very much on the agenda, so that we cannot forget the efforts made recently by this parliament on the climate package.
the principle that quality and sustainable public finances are indispensable not for individual countries but for the survival of the european economy and social model is confirmed, indeed reinforced.
if public sector intervention is to become central and essential again, it is essential to avoid repeating mistakes that would be even more unforgivable and to turn the crisis towards a new model of development that is truly environmentally and socially sustainable.
the very recent energy crisis has also shown that a common economic policy on the major strategic issues is of vital interest to the citizens and cannot be postponed, and that if there is political will its birth is facilitated precisely by the increasingly evident weight of the euro.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mrs guerreiro's report on the cfp and the ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
a fisheries policy must start from the premise that there is an interdependence between the well-being of fishing communities and the sustainability of the ecosystems of which they are an integral part, in particular through the recognition of the specificity and importance of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing.
finally, i agree with the honourable member that the first and foremost task of fisheries management, as an activity exploiting a renewable resource, is to control (directly or indirectly) the total fishing effort in order to ensure maximum sustainable catch.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my positive vote on the report by mrs klaß on the framework directive on the sustainable use of pesticides.
the aim of the directive is to reduce the impact of pesticides on human health and the environment by: the commission has also proposed that the use of pesticides be reduced by setting concrete targets and implementing national action plans.
i share its aims and objectives, which are to ensure a high level of protection of both human health and the environment.
the european union has always paid particular attention to environmental issues and this regulation is a further step towards that objective.
together with a non-legally binding recommendation, the convention was adopted by the highest body of the international labour organisation in june 2007. convention 188 revises several older ilo standards relating to fishermen and its entry into force could create a level playing field and a better environment for all.
given that the new international labour organisation standard must take effect as soon as possible, the commission proposes that the convention should include a call on member states to seek the deposit of their instruments of ratification as soon as possible, preferably by 21 december 2012. this call will be supported by a review of the ratification situation by the council by january 2012.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
i think he is also a little indifferent to the need for policies, laws and social instruments that respond to the real needs of citizens, a little off track in his conception of environmental policy, of combating climate change as a cost, an obstacle, and not a great opportunity for innovation and sustainable growth and even, let me say, a little macho, when he says that we need to revise the barcelona targets on childcare support facilities, with the aim of of course of sending women back home.
energy security and solidarity require strong and unwavering action to promote energy efficiency and saving, which is a huge building block for innovation, employment and consumption reduction.
we ask you, mr president, to convince your colleagues to put the binding 20% energy saving target by 2020, the cinderella of last year's energy package, at the heart of the spring european council and to review your priorities by making a less superficial contribution to the decisions taken in december on renewable energy.
europe is facing a serious energy supply problem: it is a matter of considerable gravity and the solution seems complex.
i agree with the rapporteur's views on the transposition of directive 2002/73/ec by the member states and the need for all to put into practice the instruments that this directive makes available in order to strengthen national legislation on equal treatment between women and men in the labour market: gender equality in employment is not only an ethically worthwhile principle but is and will be the basis for sustainable and lasting economic development in the european union as a whole.
so this is a fundamental issue, on which i think the commission's initiative should be developed more strongly than in the past, because we have seen that when it wants to it can also convince the rioters, as it has been in the environmental field.
as a penultimate aspect, there is no doubt that solidarity mechanisms are fundamental to the union's energy policies, also in relation to the lisbon treaty.
finally, the external reports: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european energy charter.
at the same time, these areas are extremely vulnerable to the impacts of man-made climate change outside their borders.
the development of sustainable tourism is used as a means of assigning economic value to protected nature areas and promoting their conservation.
i therefore welcome the initiative of my colleague to promote the development of sustainable tourism, which is a true indicator of the economic value of a protected nature area.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr queirò on the agenda for a sustainable future in general and business aviation.
however, i fear that it will fail to attract small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) if it is not clear how such contracts will work, especially in a cross-border context, and if further clarification is not provided on certain aspects of the procedure, including state aid provisions and intellectual property, in order to create a transparent and stable environment for public authorities and businesses.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr harbour on the promotion of innovation in pre-commercial procurement to ensure sustainable and high-quality public services in europe.
i believe that renewable energy, such as wind, solar, hydropower or geothermal energy, biomass and marine resources, is the most important potential source of energy in the european union.
these can help to stabilise energy prices and to contain the increase in energy dependence.
it is therefore essential to define a european energy policy that allows a massive conversion to energy-efficient and low-carbon technologies in order to meet energy needs.
if energy efficiency and energy saving continue to be a priority, as well as the pursuit of the development of renewable energy, i agree that by 2050 it will be possible to meet energy needs using low-emission sources.
finally, the long-term energy and climate challenges at global and european level are a tremendous opportunity to encourage new business models in all economic sectors in order to boost environmentally friendly innovation and entrepreneurship.
i hope that the energy charter can play a key role in the enlargement of the energy community, particularly to the transit countries, also in the field of renewable energies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs laperrouze on the second strategic review of energy policy.
i agree with the need to provide a real basis for a future european energy policy, aimed at pursuing the objectives of security of supply, combating climate change and economic growth in the eu.
i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to establish a european fund to guarantee the non-commercial risks of certain energy production and transmission projects of european interest, in order to encourage investment in all networks.
i therefore agree with the rapporteur when she says that there is an urgent need to make the concept of work sustainable and to recognise unpaid work by women and men as a means of solidarity between generations.
last week, ministers maroni and frattini met with the tunisian authorities to try to reach a readmission agreement with that country, which is an essential condition for a sustainable return.
the florenz report, which deserves credit for having succeeded in producing this synthesis with a great capacity for listening, is ultimately, let us say, a project of energy conversion, of a general change in production systems and in patterns of life and consumption.
it would be a pity if the next parliament did not have a similar instrument in its next term, also because in the meantime many national parliaments and governments have restructured themselves by taking the climate as a specific area of work.
i hope that in the next parliament the stagnant compartments and the separate logic of the various committees will not prevail again, but that, in the manner we have suggested, we will be equipped for this long journey towards a low-carbon economy.
finally we get to vote on this work, which has been going on for a year and a half by the committee on climate change, which i personally consider a success, albeit a modest one.
as i have said many times, climate change is an urgent and serious issue that must be addressed with specific and effective instruments.
we are facing a change of civilisation and we must politically make proposals which are first of all this and then also, let us say, a progressive dematerialization of our civilisation, because otherwise it will not be sustainable.
the adoption of the climate and energy package has provided the eu with a legislative framework that enables it to play a leading role.
the recent openings announced by the new us administration give hope for a future commitment shared by the us to halt the consequences of climate change.
however, the full success of the negotiations will depend on the involvement of all those developing country economies, such as china and india, and will be possible, as the chinese minister for the environment pointed out during our meeting with the delegation from the climate committee, only with the joint contribution of the richest countries, which will guarantee adequate financial resources to promote sustainable development.
we must ensure that copenhagen marks the decisive turning point in a joint and concrete commitment by the economically stronger countries to the creation of a fund that will guarantee a steady financial flow for financing sustainable development in the emerging countries.
only through internationally agreed commitments and with the involvement of emerging countries will we be able to safeguard the environment from irreversible effects and, at the same time, to preserve the competitiveness of european companies from the effects and socioeconomic costs of environmental dumping on the global market.
his report is the fruit of the contribution he made to the work of the committee, which was so well chaired by mr sacconi, and which carried out in-depth research, debate, but above all contributed to the role that this parliament played in the adoption of the climate package.
i would ask my colleagues to consider including an amendment i have proposed on the relationship between climate change and water, which i believe covers a useful area also in the light of the growing attention of international bodies, the ipcc and unep, which indicate this issue as crucial for the future and also in view of the world water forum in istanbul.
- i give my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the challenge of energy efficiency and information and communication technologies.
i believe that, in parallel with the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, we must also improve energy efficiency by 20% over the same period.
for this reason, i support the proposal which is being put forward, which aims to raise awareness, for example through demonstration projects, of the importance of ict in improving energy efficiency in the eu economy and as a driver of higher productivity and growth, as well as cost reductions that promote competitiveness, sustainable development and the improvement of the quality of life of eu citizens.
when i read the text, i personally had no complaints about it, though i would probably be a bit careful: we all know the economic situation in kosovo and the energy shortages in kosovo, as well as in the balkans in general.
lignite and power generation is one of the few opportunities for them somehow to build a sustainable economy and to integrate this economy into the region.
yes, environmental concerns are important, but the booming of future economic stability is no less important.
more recently, we have focused on reducing car emissions in order to combat air pollution and climate change.
thanks to these efforts, and in particular to the resilience and adaptability of the european automobile industry, european cars are today among the best, the most innovative and the most competitive, as well as the safest, most fuel-efficient and environmentally sustainable in the world.
these difficulties were already apparent in november last year, when the council agreed on an approach based on promoting even more sustainable and fuel-efficient cars, realistic targets for manufacturers, and effective incentives for stimulating demand.
with regard to the global environment, we clearly need to engage in an early dialogue with the new us administration as well as with our other global partners.
the full potential of innovative and environmentally sustainable propulsion technologies – fuel cells, hybrid, electrical, solar power – needs to be fully explored and put into operation.
these instruments could combine the demand impulse for new cars with positive externalities in terms of transport security, reduction of emissions and others.
it is the only way to survive in this competitive environment.
we have taken a number of measures to promote fleet renewal, while at the same time pursuing the objective of achieving a positive environmental effect.
but it is possible, for example - and i would welcome this - to link such scrappage premiums to environmental objectives.
consumption poverty, and environmental friendliness, i.e.
low emissions.
on the one hand we have a fleet of vehicles - as you rightly said - both private and public, very old, with high levels of emissions, and on the other hand, a demand that is slowing down, very slowing down, if not collapsing.
we must really act on demand, we must make a real counter-cyclical move to support it strongly, also in the light of the environmental objectives for which we have been so committed in recent months.
it would seem to me a win-win system, everyone would benefit: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen in recent months, and especially in this parliament, a gradual reduction in direct support for our farmers and in the rules which protected our products from imports from cheaper non-european countries, in order to free up the resources needed to meet the new challenges of our millennium - environmental, economic and social - and to comply with international trade agreements.
this information programme is particularly important, because it should make it clear to european consumers that our products are not in competition with those from other countries, which may be cheaper, but that they are an alternative based on quality and a production model which respects the environment and social standards, animal welfare, which naturally affects human health.
- madam president, i thank mr onesta, but i think that yet another attempt to save a convicted terrorist in extremis is a waste of time.
if karl haushofer were alive today, he would teach this spineless europe the need to have a maritime approach to the atlantic, pacific and indian oceans and to the countries of our north, where the arctic ocean has enormous and precious energy resources.
the proposals made at the paris summit on 14 july have two objectives which are mutually agreed: the first is to make projects in the field of economic, territorial and environmental integration more concrete and effective by setting up a secretariat which should operate for this purpose and with public and private funding.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i also welcome the proposal to create a euro-mediterranean energy community, as part of a policy to implement large-scale projects in the fields of renewable energy and energy infrastructure.
finally, the union cannot avoid the task of managing, in conjunction with all the states concerned, the policies and migratory flows in the mediterranean area, which must be implemented not only in terms of security, legality and the repression of illegal immigration, but also and above all in terms of active policies, sources of shared rules and targeted and sustainable employment.
i was in portugal just a week ago and that country could serve as an example of how to develop a sustainable, dynamic programme for a renewable source of energy, which is very important for the mediterranean region.
having said that, i can add that despite this temporary suspension we are working in the commission in a constructive spirit, of course, to implement the four to six projects that have been put forward as being priority, namely civil protection, the decontamination of the mediterranean sea, the maritime motorways and also a solar plan, madam, in which we are working a lot on renewable energy, solar in particular, because the latter, as well as wind energy and other energy sources, are very important.
it's also called the social world, the pole of social utility, and it can help, i think, the sustainability of our social systems in times of constraint.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
however, the debate on the application of reduced rates for the protection of the environment and energy saving is still open, and the commission will have to provide specific assessments on this subject, given the importance of these sectors in the european union's economy.
in my view, further extensions of the scope of the reduced vat, for example to include so-called 'green services', would be desirable, precisely to promote environmental policies.
however, it has been rightly noted that the directive has not been correctly transposed in several countries, where rather reductive provisions have been adopted, whereas it would be important to make an effort to harmonise legislation between the member states of the union in order to be able to guarantee european companies the same tools to anticipate and prepare for changes in the economic environment in which they operate.
- mr president, i agree and fully support my colleague mrs toia's emphasis on the role of the social economy as a creator of quality jobs and on strengthening social, economic and territorial cohesion by promoting active citizenship, solidarity and a vision of the economy based on democratic values, which puts people first, supports sustainable development and technological innovation.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr gyürk on the evaluation of the national energy efficiency action plans.
the problem of energy supply in europe is well known and is closely linked to that of energy efficiency.
the waste of energy in the countries of the union is an unacceptable luxury which must be tackled as soon as possible if we are not to suffer even more serious consequences in the future.
moreover, given their greater exposure to energy price increases, these companies could benefit greatly from better implementation of energy efficiency and would contribute significantly to the achievement of the overall targets.
it is therefore essential to think about the protection of the marine environment and to adopt an approach based on a careful assessment of ecosystems, taking into account in an integrated way all activities affecting european seas.
at such a delicate time, i believe that closer cooperation in neighbourhood and partnership relations is needed to create a favourable environment in the immediate vicinity of the european union, as the main objective of the enp states.
i am also pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to set up a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection, and that the european commission has been able to provide the necessary information to the member states.
i agree with the rapporteur that the legislative proposal put forward by parliament is necessary to ensure that even countries which do not qualify as official development aid, but which are open to promoting political, economic and governance values similar to those of the community and with which the community has strategic relations, are supported in projects worthy of attention such as the establishment of partnerships between economic, academic and scientific actors, especially in areas of great importance such as scientific and technological research, transport, energy and the environment.
we want to strengthen it by prioritising this support and by saying something concrete: the call for more flexible legislation, the call for the provision of instruments which will allow a less hostile environment for the activities of these entities.
- the madam president, i am pleased that we are discussing today the proposal for a recast of the directive on industrial emissions and i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr krahmer, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their excellent work on this dossier.
in recent weeks the commission has gathered reliable evidence that the current directive on integrated pollution prevention and control is not being sufficiently implemented and that industrial emissions remain at excessively high levels.
this situation has caused serious negative effects on the environment and the health of european citizens.
these techniques have significant environmental and economic benefits.
in principle, they reduce emissions and limit the use of resources, thus contributing to the long-term improvement of the security of energy supply of the european union.
they also provide incentives for eco-innovation, which is essential for european industry to be able to meet future global demand for environmental technologies.
brefs will thus be able to play a greater role in setting the conditions for the granting of licences to industrial enterprises, which will result in our industrial plants meeting the highest possible environmental requirements set by european union legislation.
at the same time, minimum mandatory requirements should be laid down at european union level for certain industrial sectors with particularly serious environmental impacts.
in addition, few minimum standards have already been established for sectors such as large combustion plants or waste incinerators.
minimum standards should be established only if and when they are necessary and justified from an environmental point of view.
a typical example is the large combustion plant sector, which is responsible for a significant share of air pollution.
they are expected to be implemented in 2016. these measures will make a significant contribution to achieving the relevant objectives of the thematic strategy on air pollution in an economically viable manner.
reducing pollution from industrial installations is a key priority for both environmental and economic reasons.
this will further contribute to improving environmental protection and the sustainability of european industry.
i believe that this directive is, as has been said, the most important instrument for controlling industrial pollution that this parliament has discussed since the climate and energy package.
the time is probably not the most fortunate, because of the financial crisis, which is putting pressure on the industrial system and which has therefore led to excessive lobbying by companies towards parliamentary groups, worried about the financial implications of this directive, as of the previous climate-energy package.
i would also add that there has certainly been little investment by industrialists in the past: i believe that, since too many people in europe are getting sick and dying from air pollution caused by industrial emissions, we must take action with appropriate clean-up measures and a strong control and analysis system.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i myself worked on the soil protection directive, a directive on which the council has unfortunately not yet taken a decision, and a directive which is indispensable to maintain the balance in the release of carbon into the atmosphere in a natural way, as commissioner dimas rightly pointed out recently.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i think that this is unacceptable, not because of the environment but because of the need to safeguard public health and prevent any abuse of public resources, the development of activities and the lives of the citizens of the union.
there have been too many abuses in the past in my own country of derogating from the authorizations already provided for in the previous ippc directive, and this creates contradictions both from the environmental point of view and also from the point of view of industrial and market rules.
finally, the limitation and inclusion of the performance of incinerators, in respect of which the controls should not be relaxed, is positive in order to prepare the overcoming of this practice for a zero waste society.
however, the systematic setting of minimum requirements is not necessary and risks creating an additional administrative burden for little environmental gain.
in considering minimum requirements on large combustion plants, it is important to keep in mind the significant impacts that such operations have on the environment and on the health of european union citizens.
bat for large combustion plants was agreed in 2006 and it is the commission’s view that the minimum criteria should be applied from 2016. we need to ensure that the measures put in place for the sector bring it into line with bat at the earliest opportunity and facilitate the achievement of the objectives set out in the thematic strategy on air pollution.
the rearing of different species leads to different environmental impacts, in particular due to the different weight of the animals.
the proposed new thresholds have been set on the basis of the environmental impact of the species concerned.
the new thresholds would include a limited number of additional farms compared to the current scope, and would reduce ammonia emissions in a cost efficient manner to meet the objectives of the thematic strategy on air pollution, in some areas.
i said that i was in favour of this proposal, although i would like to stress that if amendments had not been tabled for the house, which went somehow beyond what was agreed on the basis of a general compromise in the committee on the environment, this problem would not have arisen, because the compromise amendments fully respected the nature of this revision, namely a recasting.
in addition, israel has long been a member of the international civil aviation organization, complies with its obligations and has adopted policies consistent with international regulations in this field, especially in the areas of safety and security, but also environmental protection and the social treatment of airline employees: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
it is clear that to promote efficiency and thus avoid waste of time and money, direct contacts between judicial authorities and full cooperation between them must be encouraged.
the report, which is very well done, aims to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and, at the same time, high levels of safety and environmental protection.
these requirements have been harmonised at community level to avoid differences between member states and to ensure high levels of road safety and environmental protection throughout the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting against the report by mr krahmer on emissions from industrial installations.
i do not agree that local responsible authorities should indicate measures to limit emissions for individual plants, with the result that an average emission level is reached that meets the requirements of the brefs, while allowing for flexibility to adequately manage local situations.
i therefore welcome the proposals and the measures on the management of accidents and the risks of marine and environmental disasters and the expertise in this area, and i would perhaps ask the commission to do more.
no serious scientist doubts that the use of fossil fuels needs to be drastically curbed because of the limited resources and because the burning of fossil fuels is the main cause of climate chaos.
the fixed tuna trap is by definition unable to go in search of prey: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
it is also important to keep the course steady to know how to get out of it, whether to be at the head or the tail of the global competition, which will increasingly be played out in the search for a new green and intelligent, low-carbon economy.
but this house is called upon to fill a void, to introduce the eurobond instrument, which has been repeatedly requested by mr mario mauro, the undersigned and almost 200 colleagues, and which is perhaps the only instrument capable of raising the financial resources that our budget does not have, to finance the response to the crisis, transeuropean infrastructure, clean energy, research and broadband, the fight against poverty, erasmus for young people.
i believe that the environmental catastrophe that has struck romania cannot go unnoticed.
maritime transport deserves particular attention because, in addition to being the most cost-effective in relative terms, it is one of the most risky in terms of the environmental consequences of an accident.
- mr president, the protection of the environment and road safety, which are the objectives of the proposal for a directive, are two objectives which the european union must pursue with tenacity in order to have a transport policy which is more sensitive to the expectations and rights of its citizens.
despite the progress made by the european institutions in the area of openness and transparency, the situation is far from perfect and the current recast of regulation (eec) no 1049/2001 on public access to documents held by the european institutions should be seen as a further step towards the creation of an administrative environment in which the availability of information and the ease of access to it are the norm and not the exception.
a climate of 'witch-hunting' is developing against romanian and roma citizens, with punitive expeditions.
in this context, i welcome the fact that the commission has drawn up in its communication an 'inventory' of the measures taken so far by the european union for a sustainable transport policy.
- i agree with some of the points in the resolution on combating climate change.
despite the progress made by the european institutions in the area of openness and transparency, the situation is far from perfect and the current recast of regulation (eec) no 1049/2001 on public access to documents held by the european institutions should be seen as a further step towards the creation of an administrative environment in which the availability of information and the ease of access to it are the norm and not the exception.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the figures for water suffering are well known and dramatic, and are set to worsen as a result of climate change.
it is precisely in connection with climate change that the new field of action must be opened up.
climate change is making access to water worse, and poor access to water is making climate change worse.
and it would also help to connect with the big conventions, the climate convention and the desertification convention, which are living right in the un.
i therefore welcome the proposal for measures to strengthen trade and investment between the union and brazil, but i ask that they be strengthened in the areas of judicial cooperation, environmental cooperation, the recognition of human rights and protection against organised crime, which is often exported to the union, which are equally important priorities.
they are subject to increasing environmental pressures with negative effects such as: hydrogeological disruption, sea level rise, resulting salinization of soils, loss of agricultural land, decrease in biodiversity, damage from fires, plant diseases and epizootics.
training and updating of industry and consumers is also needed with the dual purpose of finding specific solutions and empowering users towards a more sustainable use of natural resources and land.
its geographical location gives it a strategic position as a 'bridge' between north and south america and the caribbean and the pacific, and it is hoped that this strategic partnership will institutionalise the holding of annual eu-mexico summits and provide a new impetus to the eu-mexico comprehensive agreement in its various policy areas, including human rights, security, counter-narcotics measures, the environment, technical and cultural cooperation.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states on the application of the rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
so it is essential that this inclusion - also to achieve the millennium goals for getting out of poverty, out of disease and for the development of agriculture and education - that this inclusion happens, with all the issues that have been raised, from desertification, to climate change, to energy.
this is one of the main conclusions of the impact and sustainable development study carried out by an independent consultant in parallel with the negotiations.
the objective of the impact and sustainable development study was to analyse the economic, social and environmental impact of the future free trade agreement and to identify possible necessary accompanying measures.
the impact and sustainability study is currently in its final phase and should be available in april, therefore well in time to support the ongoing negotiations.
it is essential that the agri-food industry and retailers can continue to rely on a sustainable and competitive agricultural production platform within the european union.
today, we need to combine technology and design, integrating the principles of sustainability and economic viability.
in the light of the joint strategy adopted in 2007 to achieve a more bilateral approach by placing the eu and africa on a more equal footing, i support the importance of this strategy, which aims to bring dialogue and cooperation 'beyond development', 'beyond africa' and 'beyond institutions', with increased eu-africa cooperation in international bodies and in multilateral negotiations on issues such as human rights and climate change.
while i understand the importance of sustainable urban development, i believe it is difficult to achieve this without a common definition of 'urban areas'.
we have long advocated that eib project finance be geared to social and environmental standards and respect for human rights.
the eib is a very important instrument within the eu to steer social, environmental and economic development in the member states.
i would ask that, even more than in the past, all projects supported by the eib be subject to a rigorous examination of whether they are truly eco-social and economically sustainable.
the labour market and environmental impact are much more favourable to promoting the modernisation and expansion of existing infrastructure.
we need an ecosocial policy that is sustainable for people and the environment.
i would point out that europe, as a real political actor, had acted very differently on climate a few months ago.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i welcome the creation of the single european sky and am reasonably confident that it will improve efficiency and safety, while also reducing the environmental impact of aviation.
it is only a source, on the one hand, of unfair speculation by manufacturers and, on the other, it is an obvious environmental damage because, because of this trap set to the detriment of consumers, there are hundreds of millions of phone chargers that are dispersed into the environment with a rotation every two or three years.
this is a great advantage in reducing queues, in reducing congestion, in protecting the environment and in reducing the cost of air travel.
like the rapporteur, i believe that the commission should first of all work towards defining quantifiable and achievable community objectives focused on the need to address all sensitive areas such as safety, the environment, capacity and cost-effectiveness.
- i support the report by mr marinescu on the performance and sustainability of the european aviation system.
these inefficiencies unfortunately translate into high costs in terms of expenses, time and fuel waste for those who benefit from the single european sky.
the introduction of the new regulation would protect consumers by introducing a high level of food safety, environmental protection and animal health protection, taking into account at all times the precautionary principle as laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council of 28 january 2002. that regulation lays down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishes the european food safety authority and lays down procedures in the field of food safety.
i agree with your colleague that a high level of food safety, consumer protection, environmental protection and animal health must be achieved, always taking the precautionary principle into account.
- if the montreal protocol, which entered into force 20 years ago and has been signed by 193 nations, had not banned products that contribute to the reduction of the ozone hole, a catastrophic scenario would have been foreseen for planet earth.
the main culprits for the loss of atmospheric ozone are halogenated hydrocarbons, chemicals invented in 1928 as refrigerants.
when the ozone hole was first detected in the 1980's, researchers discovered that these chemicals, which are practically inactive at the earth's surface, are able to interact with ozone molecules in the atmosphere and destroy the protective shield against harmful uv rays.
progress has played an important role in this phase, providing us with a range of services and goods that over the past few decades have contributed to a progressive deterioration in the conditions of our climate system.
the greenhouse effect, the ozone hole and climate change are just some of the phenomena which must be the focus of our attention as representatives of our fellow citizens and future children in europe.
- i shall vote in favour of the report by mr blokland on substances that deplete the ozone layer.
i share the aims of the project, which are to protect the stratospheric ozone layer and prevent climate change, as banned substances have not only a significant ozone depleting potential (odp), but also a global warming potential (gwp).
i believe that the epas should support the sustainable development of the african, caribbean and pacific countries, promote their participation in international trade and their economic diversification.
i agree that a customs union between the west african countries could be a great benefit to the ivory coast, which is the trade and economic leader of that area: in addition, in view of the fact that intra-regional trade represents only a small part of the total trade of côte d'ivoire, it is appropriate to increase regional trade links in order to develop sustained and sustainable growth in the long term.
i believe it would be important to develop a genuine regional and intraregional market in these countries to ensure that the conditions are created for sustainable growth which is not dependent on external aid alone: however, this agreement does not create the necessary conditions for this to happen, as in many cases the planned interventions involve little involvement of local authorities and the private sector.
- i would like to congratulate the honourable member on his work and support his report on the impact of intensive urbanisation in spain on the individual rights of european citizens, on the environment and on the application of community law, a very negative impact, as evidenced by the numerous petitions received from citizens living in the country.
new us leadership could lead to a better eu/us common policy, to work together in an effective partnership on many global issues facing leaders from both continents, such as climate change, global challenges, regional issues, defence, economic and trade issues.
we are in a situation where we are seeing that growth cannot be continuous but has limits in the limited natural resources and in the limited, also, of the land to absorb and metabolize our waste.
in the next 40 years we will have to rely on the traditional energy resources that russia is rich in: what else can we do?
as a result of the quest for resources and climate change, the arctic region is on the brink of a profound change.
against the background of these developments it is important that the eu approaches the arctic in a comprehensive and strategic manner covering a whole range of issues, such as environment, transport, biodiversity, climate change, maritime affairs, energy and research, as well as protection of the livelihood of the indigenous peoples.
− mr president, as i underlined at the beginning of this important debate, the european union has to play a growing role in protecting the arctic environment, in promoting sustainable exploitation of natural resources and in enhancing arctic multilateral governance.
we are committed to the preservation of the arctic and, at the same time, our aim is to contribute to a cooperative system that will guarantee sustainability, as well as free and equitable access.
strict environmental management and sustainable use of resources, as well as open and equitable access.
at the same time, the eu has already highlighted that, for areas beyond national jurisdiction, the provisions on environmental protection under this convention remain rather general, and we will continue to work within the united nations towards the further development of some of the frameworks, adapting them to new conditions or arctic specificities.
for example, a new unclos implementation agreement on marine biodiversity beyond the areas of national jurisdiction could take the arctic into account, and we have also submitted our application to the norwegian chair of the arctic council.
human dignity must be at stake, and it must be a hostile or humiliating environment.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to cosmetic products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, we have dealt with and taken into account, above all, the need to ensure equal treatment in the area of health.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
by taking over responsibility for the review of the ecolabel dossier on behalf of the european parliament, i have moved in the direction of giving a boost to this system which, through the constant updating of the environmental requirements for the products that bear it, encourages companies to make a continuous virtuous effort to raise the overall ecological quality standards of the products placed on the market.
by increasing the production and distribution of ecolabelled products and services, we will achieve significant, permanent and growing environmental benefits in the coming years in terms of energy savings, reduction of air pollution and water savings.
the ecolabel is a voluntary eco-label intended to promote the dissemination of products and services with a reduced environmental impact throughout their life cycle by providing consumers with accurate, non-misleading and scientifically correct information.
the revision of this regulation is part of the wider european action plan for sustainable consumption and production and is closely linked to the revision of emas and the ecodesign directive.
the aim of the label is to guide consumers towards products that reduce their environmental impact.
the principle that most interested the shadow rapporteurs and was agreed by the other institutions was that the ecolabel should not just be a certification of an achievement but rather a dynamic tool in continuous evolution, a springboard that constantly pushes manufacturers and products towards higher environmental quality standards, continuously assessing excellence in the market and setting new criteria accordingly.
what we want to ensure is a control of the entire life cycle of the product, which allows the maximum consideration of the environmental impact at all stages of production and allows all operators in the sector, as well as ngos, to participate actively in the process of reviewing the criteria for compromise.
eco-labelling is sustainable, but it is also environmentally friendly: this is the challenge of the new framework regulation on the ecolabel.
the individual member states must organise the national competent authority, liaise with the european body and adopt the sustainability criteria as binding.
but what is environmental sustainability for the ecolabel?
it means applying innovative production criteria to the entire product lifecycle, from reducing emissions in production techniques, to reducing the energy consumption of primary goods such as water, to locating production close to the final consumer, which is a real revolution.
this is the challenge that we face in a coherent fight against climate change but also in a genuine innovation of the way we produce.
the exclusions for products that contain toxic chemicals, substances harmful to the environment, carcinogens or substances harmful to reproduction are clear and effective.
this is certainly for consumer production, but also to ensure fairness for businesses and to prevent unfair and unfair competition, which is often carried out by those who do not respect the same social and ecological parameters in the production of products, from continuing to cause damage and distort the market, as is happening.
so, the same environmental protection rules, and of course the same social rights for workers: the institutions should be responsible for monitoring this.
we are damaging the climate, we are damaging the environment, we are damaging people's health and we are draining natural resources unsustainably.
it allows for extension to other products, it has also solved the problem of possible labelling of food products, and thus the consumer will be able to consider and take into account the environmental impact of products and services in his consumer choice, and this is very important.
i am convinced that the adoption of these regulations will really benefit european businesses, that they will create new opportunities that are related to the current crisis and at the same time to the solution of the biggest global environmental problem, which is global climate change.
raising environmental awareness for all by involving only 4,000 to 5,000 companies in the european union, as has been done so far, is not a good result and we must improve it and to improve it we need above all information, information, information.
employees in an emas organisation all contribute to improving environmental performance: we use less water, we use more energy, we sort waste.
at a time when environmental issues are on the agenda and demand for green products is growing even in non-european countries, such as the united states or china, the ecolabel will be one of the tools to make european products increasingly competitive on the international market.
the ecolabel is not just an environmental quality label: but through a continuous upward revision of the environmental excellence criteria of the products themselves, the ecolabel will become an incentive for continuous improvement and innovation.
in conclusion, my country, italy, is in first place in europe in terms of the number of licences granted, and a large number of these are in the tourism sector, which can derive added value from a european environmental quality label that is appreciated and guaranteed by european citizens.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may i also thank all those who took part in the debate, which showed a broad convergence of views on the work done by the committee on the environment.
- i vote in favour of the report by mr angelakas on investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing under the erdf.
the european union as a key global player cannot afford to fall behind in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing efficiency.
i believe that this proposal fits perfectly into the european action plan for sustainable production and consumption and, consequently, into the general objective of developing a voluntary and integrated system which encourages companies to improve their products with a view to improving their quality from the point of view of food and consumer protection, but also their ecological footprint, by achieving higher standards of environmental protection and energy efficiency.
i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work in such an important and crucial context for our producers, even the smallest ones, because it is precisely by emphasizing quality and respect for food and ecological standards that they are able to distinguish themselves and to resist in an increasingly global and competitive environment.
the objective of improving the environmental performance of organisations over the long term is certainly to be supported, as are all the small and large-scale instruments aimed at achieving it.
the agenda for the joint debate is the following: recommendation for the second reading by eluned morgan, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on parliament's common position c01708/0804 (cod0548/0118) on the council directive 2008/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for the internal market in electricity and repealing council directive 2003/54/ec (cod0239/023 (cod045/06)) on the proposal for a council directive on the transposition of council directive 2008/55/ec on the internal market in electricity and repealing council directive 2007/54/ec (cod0239/018 (cod045/06)) on the proposal for a council directive on the transposition of council directive 2007/54/ec on common rules for the internal market in electricity and repealing council directive 2003/54/ec (cod0239/018 (cod0236/06)) on the common position of the council on the common position of the european parliament and of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an agency for cooperation between national energy regulators (codirective 2007/55/ec) on the internal market in electricity and energy (com (2008/2649) c02368/0236 (cod)) on the proposal for a directive of the council on the transposition of the council on the internal market in electricity and energy for the internal market for the european parliament and council directive of the european parliament and council directive 2007/54/67/ec) (codirective of the european parliament and council directive of the european parliament and council directive of 23/ec) (codirective of 23/ec) (codirective of the european parliament and council directive 2007/ec
the rapporteur.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the czech presidency, the commission, the chairman of the committee on energy and industry, mr niebler, and the other rapporteurs on this energy package, the shadow rapporteurs, the committee secretariat and all its officials for the cooperation and expertise shown in this dossier.
the gas directive, which will come into force in 2011, brings significant new developments in the sector: the achievement of the ito option, which guarantees the opening up of markets and real progress towards a system which really allows the european union to speak with one voice on energy, must be emphasized as an important result.
it is therefore of fundamental importance that the role and powers of these bodies have been defined and that they have been given broad powers, since the authorities have the difficult task of monitoring the common energy market.
the successful outcome of the gas directive of the whole energy package once again highlights the role of europe and its institutions for the european citizens.
it will not be the last, because, as you know, there is a great push to use other sources of energy, renewable and nuclear, but it will certainly help to satisfy hunger and the need for energy in the next 10 to 15 to 20 years and to anticipate and, of course, protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable.
i believe that mr morgan, the undersigned and all the other honourable members, have played a very important role in defending the weak consumer, giving a great deal of power to the national and regional authorities, who can, at critical moments, change, i do not say give free energy, but certainly change and allow a continuous supply of this energy.
the other key point is this: i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the council has taken the initiative to adopt this package, which is essential for energy consumers.
the agenda includes the report by adina-ioana vălean, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 717/2007 on roaming on public mobile networks within the community and directive 2002/21/ec establishing a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (com ((2008) 0580 - c6-0333/2008 - 2008/0187 (cod)) (a6-0138/2009).
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
it has eight neighbouring states which have signed joint agreements on the protection and conservation of this region and a common transport management policy since 4 april 1998. in the transport sector, the so-called 'protocol on the implementation of the alpine convention in the field of transport' was adopted on 24-26 may 2000 and its main task was to provide a regulatory framework for sustainable mobility in the region.
the environmental and health effects of pesticide use have been debated at european level and the european parliament has adopted directives on the authorisation and sale of pesticides.
the proposed directive achieves the objective of ensuring a common level of environmental protection while avoiding a fragmented regulatory framework at community level, which can generate high costs for companies wishing to operate also beyond national borders.
reconstruction must be an opportunity for sustainable development and great innovation for this population which has shown us all not only great decency but also great courage and a great desire to start over.
and then the national authorities must take action, and for this reason too we must work to apply for loans from the european investment bank, so that it is possible to provide substantial sums which can be given for a rapid and sustainable reconstruction of this region.
but for this reason too it is of great importance that the framework directive on soil is also approved, which is a structural aid to the proper management of european soils, and towards a correct soil policy the european funds themselves must be re-directed, thus creating environmental restoration and good employment.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also been consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation.
we tried to make it clear that we were not discussing how many roads to plan or what roads to plan, but simply, and this is not a small thing, to plan how to move in a coordinated, safe, respectful of man and the environment and therefore intelligent way.
it would be disappointing if we continued to finance roads when we decided that there should be fewer cars on the road, it would be disappointing if we continued to finance vehicles designed without taking into account interconnection and passive safety, consumption, and not only fuel, but also the environment, it would be disappointing if we all planned to go on one road and the money and resources for which we are responsible ended up going to another and were spent without coordination in terms of time.
i am sorry that my friend john bowis, with whom we have dealt with so many issues during this parliamentary term as coordinator of the main groups in the committee on the environment, is not here, and i also naturally wish him a speedy recovery.
the agenda includes the report by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council recommendation on patient safety, including the prevention and control of nosocomial infections (com (2008) 0837 - c6-0032/2009 - 2009/0003 (cns)) (a6-0239/2009) the rapporteur cannot be present and will be replaced in the initial introduction by mr grossetête.
the agenda includes the report by mr antonios trakatellis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council recommendation on european action in the field of rare diseases (com ((2008) 0726 - c6-0455/2008 - 2008/0218 (cns)) (a6-0231/2009)
the debate is closed.
the civitas programme (launched in 2002) to promote the large-scale deployment of urban transport and the white paper: in its communication 'european transport policy until 2010: the time to make choices' (issued in 2001), which proposed the creation of a more optimal urban mobility system, the commission proposed a genuine action plan to improve the quality of european transport in an entirely optimal way, by developing a gradual circuit linking the increase in mobility demand with economic growth, so as to control environmental pollution in a very effective way, while at the same time safeguarding europe's productive system.
road congestion, increased co2 emissions and road fatalities are just some of the major challenges facing community transport and i believe that its is a key tool to make transport more efficient, safe, clean and environmentally friendly, contributing to the development of sustainable mobility for citizens and the economy.
i agree that its can improve the living conditions of european citizens and contribute to improving road safety and reducing emissions of substances that alter the climate and are harmful to human health.
i would like to give a couple of examples, particularly as regards community environmental law.
and clearly, when you put into the pilot such issues as pollution that has already been established, hunting regulations that are obviously and openly in conflict with community rules, you cannot expect the member states to act because that only serves to further delay the procedure.
when it comes to energy consumption policies, the eu should take as a guiding model for its choices the statements made by the well-known british economist nicholas stern: in times of recession and high oil prices, additional incentives for investment in energy efficiency and spending on renewable energy and other low-carbon sectors can help stimulate the economy.
what is needed is an energy policy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions, upholds the commitments made under the kyoto protocol and supports the eu's leading role in the fight against climate change.
the current directive on energy labelling 92/75/eec, although welcomed by industry and consumer associations, cannot be considered to be in step with technological developments and innovation on the energy market, since this deadlock in all european territories would first have to be eliminated in order to enable consumers to enjoy a new dimension of life.
two things i want to say very quickly about the question of the european union's leadership, or supposed leadership, on climate change.
so, today, we have no deal, because it is clear that even if the united states were to come with us, if we do not offer an economic deal, 100 billion euros, for the countries that have to take the measures of adaptation and mitigation on climate change, we in copenhagen will have no agreement, and since we are the ones who give so much air of being leaders, if we cannot put this money and these measures on the plate, we will not be able to have a deal and the europeans will be the main ones responsible.
the total liberalization of current accounts for all residents, capital accounts for investors, virtually unlimited activities without rules for financial services and so, on the issue of financial services, as well as on climate change, we adopt rules which we then fail to enforce internally and in our external relations.
the lisbon agenda envisaged a house of europe based on three pillars: economic, social and ecological.
there is a need for more equity in the distribution of goods, a committed fight against poverty, effective gender equality, social integration rather than exclusion, international solidarity, structural change, the respect of fundamental rights and human rights - including those of immigrants - , health and the environment, in order to improve working and living conditions, and finally clear eu guidelines that cannot be undermined by the ecj.
it is therefore industrial and environmental policies, but also cohesion policies, which put an end to dumping within europe.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the financing arrangements for 2009 are very clear: of the total of 3.98 billion, 2 billion will be allocated to energy through a compensation under heading 2, 'protection and management of natural resources'.
the remaining 1.98 billion for energy will be determined in the 2010 budgetary procedure and, if necessary, completed in the 2011 budgetary procedure.
we have welcomed his strong commitment to fundamental rights, even in places that are uncomfortable for the majority of the european parliament itself, from russia to china, and also his green conversion, as his recent words on climate change show.
just think of the failure, entirely piloted, of the working group on lobbies, which ends today with nothing done despite a very explicit resolution adopted a year ago, or the silence on the issue of the double strasbourg-brussels headquarters and the waste of money and co2 incomprehensible to our voters.
the second point: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the financial strength and sustainability of our airlines are key parameters for safeguarding the benefits of the internal market, and thanks to the internal market passengers have access to a variety of connections, routes and prices that are unprecedented in europe.
no one can think, for example, that malta alone or italy with its 5000 km of coastline can solve the problems of immigration, or that many other countries can solve the problems of energy supply.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciated the swedish presidency's emphasis on issues of concern to our fellow citizens, our voters, namely the environment and the climate, the financial crisis, the protection of the workplace and the fight against crime, because we must be in tune with those who voted for us if we are to do our job well.
today's fiat is the most technologically advanced car in the world, just think of what it has done to reduce co2 emissions from its cars.
we should also mention other natural disasters in the resolution - not just fires - because summer floods are unfortunately not a new phenomenon, they are one of the scenarios we will have to face in the future, as a consequence of climate change and global warming.
in particular, development cooperation with these countries must be stepped up to create stability, security and sustainability.
on the financial side, mr president, i believe we must also consider the need to innovate monetary and fiscal policy in order to defuse the struggle between our currency, the euro, and the old hegemony of the dollar, as well as the struggle with the emerging currencies of china or india, to achieve stricter regulation of the financial market with the accompanying prohibitions on betting on energy commodities and especially on food commodities, the prices of which can starve many economies, to bring finance back to the predominant role of serving production and to replace or supplement the traditional economic contributions of fiscal incentives in depressed european regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my question was intended to emphasize one point, namely that the increase in the overall population is having consequences both for the use of raw materials and for pollution.
the south of italy must be accorded the same dignity as other european regions, and now that europe is facing difficulties, it must act with the same energy as when it legalised 150 million citizens from the east who became community citizens.
the eu supports a number of sustainable development projects for hydropower.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know for a fact that energy demand will increase and that european gas production is steadily declining.
as long as europe does not have a common and single energy policy, italy has not only the right but the duty to provide in every way, from energy saving to nuclear... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with commissioner piebalgs.
its recent statements confirm that southstream is not a competitor to nabucco but a further contribution to the diversification of europe's energy supply sources.
european energy security is based on a variety of sources, routes and countries of supply.
it is important that the european parliament should call for pragmatism and above all for consistency in the choices that the european union has already made: the european economic recovery plan, decision 1364/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2006 laying down guidelines for trans-european networks in the field of energy and the second energy security strategy.
the diversification of sources, routes and countries of supply is the real pillar of europe's energy security policy and the southstream-nabucco challenge, beyond the political and economic interests of the various countries most directly involved, must be analysed realistically, without the distorting lenses of ideology but rather with a clear vision of what needs to be done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy security is certainly a key priority which must be improved by first of all strengthening energy efficiency, diversifying suppliers, sources and supply routes, but above all by promoting the union's energy interests vis-à-vis third countries.
now the european council in march has declared that in order to achieve the objectives of energy security the european union collectively, but also each of the member states, must be prepared to combine solidarity and responsibility.
that, in my view, is the key point: the european energy policy must be inextricably linked to the union's foreign policy, because if we keep repeating that our foreign policy action will be really effective when we speak with one voice, this is just as true for energy policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy supplies are not reduced to a mere mere mere mere barrel of oil.
but if we want to help the taiwanese authorities and the countries in the area in a structural way in the future to deal with such threats, the european union should support taiwan's admission as an observer to the world meteorological organization and the united nations framework convention on climate change.
but what is of particular concern to this european parliament is how public money and european union funds are being invested in the creation of a different territorial set-up, so that proper construction can take place and the serious environmental damage that has been done can be remedied.
the commission has therefore to be concerned about the use of public money, which should be used to restore nature, protect natural resources, promote economic development in harmony with the environment and create jobs.
this directive needs to be implemented by all eu member states by the end of the year, and will make important contributions to a pluralistic landscape when it also comes to the online environment.
the recent financial crisis has led to a global economic recession which has particularly affected developing countries in a number of ways, exacerbating the food crisis: according to fao figures, hunger has reached more than one billion people for the first time in history, and 100 million more people are undernourished than in 2008. the impact of the financial crisis on acp countries has been devastating, adding to the complexity of environmental challenges and food price volatility.
this text provides for an allocation of 30 billion euros per year until 2020 to countries such as china, india and brazil, which are our most dangerous and unfair competitors, and at the same time calls on our industries to further reduce emissions, with heavy economic consequences.
we cannot turn the just battle for the environment into a war between the poor.
as long as there are countries like china, which make unfair competition their industrial policy, there can be no global market that is environmentally sustainable.
yes to the environment, no to the funding of our competitors at the expense of our workers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have seen that the speech on the vote yesterday in the committee on the environment has been reported many times.
i should like to remind you that the emissions trading directive itself provides that the european union's virtuous course will be assessed by the commission on the basis of the outcome of the conference.
these are fundamental points, and we want the kyoto protocol itself to retain its environmental significance and we want above all that a financial bubble not be created to the detriment of our european companies.
i also believe that the council meeting at the end of the month is an important occasion to reaffirm the need to revive the european idea beyond lisbon and to revive the economy, and not to leave europe behind on the great issue of climate change.
these must be the basis on which we continue to tackle the big issues such as climate change, perhaps by looking more deeply at the needs of the different economies and the economic crisis, with bold initiatives such as eurobonds, and by including them on the agenda of the next council.
the citizens of all european countries say: we want a european cooperation based on a set of values, which solves our common problems the economic crisis, unemployment, climate change, crossborder crime, migration, etc.
finally, i would like to thank not only for this debate but also for the very, very strong support that this house gives to the presidency on the climate issue.
may i also comment on the fact that many of the members of parliament here have made a distinction or a divide between reality – with unemployment and an economic crisis – on the one hand, and the text of the lisbon treaty on the other, but of course the whole idea is that the text of the lisbon treaty is there to deal with the context and that we will be better equipped to take effective decisions on immigration or asylum policy, on energy security etc.
finally, let me say something about the topic which also features at the top of the swedish presidency’s agenda, namely climate change, because we only have a few weeks to go to the copenhagen conference.
i would call it climate justice, because this is about the relation between developing and developed countries and the will to present a credible proposal for the financing of both mitigation and adaptation measures and the way we also show our willingness to lead the way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
but this creates a climate of one-targeted, obsessively repetitive man-hunting and civil war which, fuelled by a certain left, can lead to very serious consequences.
mr president, a little over a year ago i sat in this chamber for the first time and was incredibly moved by the deep respect i have for the european institutions and for this house in particular and i deeply regret that this house has been degraded by being forced to waste time in targeted attacks by political parties who use it and mock it for their national and provincial interests.
there is a climate of hostility and mistrust towards russia which is not a good basis for the cooperation we are asking for.
we do not want to defend industries which are no longer able to compete on the international market, but we want to defend consumers, we want to bring to the fore the issue of health, the environment and a genuine reciprocity in the world market, which is lacking today.
to achieve this, we need something very simple but essential: the commissioner also stressed that the eu's policy on the environment was based on the principle of transparency, a concept which underpins the rules on origin labelling, which were approved by parliament in 2006 and are already widely used in the world's major markets, as the commissioner had previously pointed out, such as the united states, mexico and china.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
we met last sunday and i told him that i fully share his position, but that perhaps the world is waking up and coming to the conclusion that these forests are essential as the lungs of the world, for the local climate and also for the capture and sequestering of carbon.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in a few weeks i shall have the honour of being part of the official delegation that this parliament will send to copenhagen for the united nations conference on climate change.
after the milestones of rio de janeiro in 1992 and kyoto in 1997, a new global climate conference, which could prove to be of historic importance, will begin on 7 december.
but there is still time before the summit, and it is in the interest of all actors to get there with concrete goals and programmes, so as not to disappoint the great expectations of making another step forward in the fight against climate change.
europe has always been a leader and the climate and energy package of the last legislature is a clear example of this.
in conclusion, tackling climate change is also a necessary requirement towards achieving - or perhaps i should say approaching - the millennium development goals.
we need to combat desertification, climate change and violent natural phenomena if we are to halve extreme poverty, fight epidemics and ensure that everyone has access to water, which is essential.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are preparing for the copenhagen conference with a resolution which shows that we are aware that all the geographical areas of the world must be involved in tackling climate change policies.
yesterday, the un negotiator, de boer, called for $10 billion by 2012. after the us and china, europe must take on new responsibilities and lead the fight against climate change.
the climate issue: we are doing our utmost to get an ambitious political agreement with a timetable so that this can eventually become legally binding.
we will live with the results of copenhagen and what comes after for a long time, and slowly reshape our societies to become more climate-smart.
finally, i hope that 2009 can end with an ambitious agreement to be reached at the copenhagen conference, where the european union will have to speak with one voice to express its views on climate change.
maybe not as fast as we'd like, but they're moving forward and we're hoping to open the environmental chapter by the end of the year.
it will mean a lot to be able to address the environmental problems in the region, but also to increase cooperation for prosperity, innovation, security, etc.
as regards the climate issue - the fate of our generation - the european council will run concurrently with the copenhagen climate summit, and the summit gives us a chance to fine-tune our negotiating position in copenhagen if necessary.
on climate change, i can hear that there is a common view here on the active role that the european union should play in copenhagen and from now on.
with the new lisbon treaty, we now have a text that will help us deal with all the important issues that have been raised here – climate change, fighting the financial crisis and its social and other effects – and of course also make sure that we have a democratic european union in the future.
- mr president, i welcome parliament's decision to adopt definitively a regulation to improve the safety, environmental and economic efficiency of road transport.
in this connection, i would point out that the definition of projects in the framework agreed in paris in july 2008 in strategic areas such as new infrastructure, cooperation between smes, communications and the exploitation of renewable energy sources will make a positive contribution to the development and facilitation of trade and investment, which is particularly needed by the southern coastal countries.
turkey plays a key role in energy security and in the dialogue between civilisations.
− madam president, this time the focus on the whole question of somalia is wider, also addressing the root causes of this scourge with sustainable methods.
the two budget lines at the centre: competitiveness and the environment.
but also the environment, including agricultural policies, which will have an allocation of some eur 60 billion.
it was highly sought after last year, but not fully funded in 2009. today, thanks to a strong effort to reorganize resources, finally 2.5 billion of investment in energy infrastructure and broadband will be made possible.
today, everyone agrees that the 2001 regulation needs to be substantially amended, but the solution proposed by mr cashman does not seem to be sustainable, since it extends the acquisition of documents beyond all reasonable limits, which may indeed sometimes be contrary to the prevailing public interest.
here are some examples: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution by gases from the atmosphere is a very good one.
the political environment is a challenge.
the judgment of the strasbourg court presupposes a concept of religious freedom which, if carried to its ultimate consequences, would guarantee, would impose a sense of dominance on every citizen to live in an environment which is in accordance with his beliefs.
it is now up to the commission to ensure that all projects to be financed under the recovery plan are fully compatible with existing european environmental legislation.