and of course you are absolutely right, it is our understanding that this policy, in the near future and medium term, will be changing to investing more in environmental and health aspects, including food security.
especially now during this downturn in economy – when we have such serious problems in energy and in the external world – especially now we need again to concentrate and not forget that the strategic goal, which we need to perform all together, commission and you, is to prepare the strategic paper on budgetary reform.
the consultations convene a sense of priorities in terms of challenges that europe has to address, with climate change, global competitiveness at the top of the list.
most contributors emphasise the necessity of turning cap into, or concentrating on, competitiveness of european agriculture, responsiveness to climate change, food safety and quality requirements, and other environmental objectives.
their convergence is driven by globalisation and the emerging multicultural economic environment.
while sometimes the political interest is to highlight these differences between economic models, in the long term, political delays in reshaping economic policy in the light of the changing multilingual and multicultural economic environment help radical populist groups to come to power and contribute to long-term political instability and economic backwardness.
and one more thing about energy solidarity.
the energy solidarity week should not end and in order to bring the negotiations back to a bilateral format, energy solidarity would, i think, be for bulgaria and slovakia to resume the operation of their nuclear power stations in this situation.
that would be a real energy solidarity.
it is necessary for all these countries, and others, to talk to each other, to consult each other regularly, to avoid misunderstandings, to avoid damage to the environment, to avoid disregard for the interests of other countries.
the release of political prisoners, the lifting of some restrictions on press freedom, and dialogue with the european union on energy, the environment and other issues are positive developments.
in addition, guinea's social and economic situation is unenviable, with very difficult living conditions, a lack of basic foodstuffs, and gross violations of human rights, all of which create an environment conducive to the illegal seizure of power.
the main lesson of the gas crisis is the high vulnerability of the european energy system and the very high risk of supplying resources.
energy issues are not only bilaterally between russia and ukraine, but also between ukraine and the european union and between the european union and russia, and there is no common eu-ukraine-russia energy framework.
we have a very clear long-term energy strategy for the whole of the european union.
in my view, the weakest link is energy policy in the short and medium term.
what would be the costs, benefits and consequences of temporarily extending the operation of the nuclear power plants in bulgaria, slovakia and lithuania, which would substantially enhance the energy security of those countries, regions and europe as a whole in that situation?
although we started talking about the need for a common energy policy as early as 2006, it is the responsibility of each eu country to ensure a secure energy supply.
the eu must adopt effective legislation to help overcome or prevent energy supply crises without delay.
the commission proposes an eu action plan on energy security and solidarity, with infrastructure development and diversification of energy sources as key areas.
i am pleased that the infrastructure projects that are to become the eu's energy security priorities include a plan to connect the countries around the baltic sea, which will make it possible to eliminate the eu's hitherto insecure energy islands.
and returning to the european union's founding principle of solidarity and its application in the energy field, there are many doubts about the future of this principle.
we are considering the third energy package for the creation of the eu internal market for electricity and gas with the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
at the same time, germany and russia are establishing a german-russian energy agency.
how does this relate to solidarity between eu member states, a common energy policy, energy security?
energy is the greatest challenge of our time.
the missing energy links need to be reconstructed, as well as the need to strengthen the gas security directive and to establish an eu coordination mechanism to respond to similar crises.
it is necessary that member states that are most dependent on energy resources have sufficient energy resources.
europe, in turn, needs to diversify its energy sources and improve security of supply.
europe must act decisively, because the solution to this energy crisis with russian gas supplies will be temporary.
i agree with the second strategic energy policy review, but i would also like to mention some aspects of the gas crisis.
how should eu citizens have felt when the conflict between ukraine and russia - clearly political - was wrecking the eu's economy, energy security, political stability, and eu states could do nothing?
when considering any eu legislation, including energy, we emphasise that the consumer, and in general the individual, is the most important.
- we do not have a single european energy policy.
this is particularly important for lithuania, which has no electricity connection to sweden or poland and is an energy island.
energy interconnections are low-cost investments and such vital projects should be funded by eu funds.
− the eu's energy security guarantor is the eu's single energy market, which must include all the member states of the community, in particular the baltic region.
the dependence of the countries of the region on russia as the sole supplier of energy resources does not guarantee energy security not only for them but also for the community as a whole.
diversification of energy sources and suppliers cannot remain a matter for the member states alone; it must be addressed at eu level.
i therefore particularly support the rapporteur's call on the commission to 'prepare a european strategic plan for multiannual investments to meet future electricity generation needs and specific guidelines for investment in nuclear energy'.
as the financial crisis has particularly damaged the construction sector, including lithuania, the rapporteur's call for greater efforts to address the problem of the final disposal of all types of radioactive waste, and in particular of highly radioactive waste, is becoming particularly relevant with the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant.
partnership and cooperation agreements (in particular with russia) must be a means of safeguarding the interests of all eu member states, and eu member states must respect the principles of solidarity and unity in their negotiations with energy suppliers from third countries.
errors are not a waste of money: errors are errors which are corrected.
i congratulate the rapporteur and all those who share her views on the challenge of climate change.
if we don't do it in a few years, the talk of energy security will be a talk of the town.
however, the miracle of the renewal of the ignalina nuclear power plant, which is still expected in lithuania, would reduce pollution and allow the annual savings of 4-5 percent of gdp, which are so necessary in a country that has been particularly affected and damaged by the economic crisis.
in the face of the crisis, more and more eu citizens are thinking about survival rather than climate change, but if we can turn from a wasteful lifestyle to a saving one, we will not only save the environment and a warmer planet, but also replenish our pockets.
the transport sector, which currently emits almost a third of all co2 emissions in the eu, is a key player in the fight against climate change.
the transport sector must reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. to achieve these objectives, a package of sustainable transport policy measures, including green innovations, co2 taxation, changes in driving and car use patterns and other measures, is necessary.
− europe needs a single strategic energy policy to ensure resource efficiency and to minimise climate impacts.
the eu and the member states must ensure the development of europe's energy infrastructure, which is essential to diversify the eu's energy sources and reduce its dependence on fossil fuels.
today, heating buildings is the largest energy user and largest emitter of co2 in the eu - about 40% of total co2 emissions.
this is where energy saving is most possible.
i support the rapporteur's proposal to organise a national information campaign for citizens on energy efficiency, in which home and apartment owners are given thermal imaging of their property and information on its energy efficiency and recommendations on the possible financing of modernisation works through microcredit.
low energy efficiency in buildings is a major problem in post-soviet buildings and many owners are not aware of how and what measures can be taken to save energy.
− i fully share the view that energy efficiency is an important instrument for handling both environmental concerns and energy security needs.
one is housing and energy efficiency.
the second one is nuclear energy, but i know this is a sensitive issue for some member states.
those are the most important in combating climate change and dealing with energy security.
therefore, finding the proper instruments to promote energy efficiency and housing is the challenge of our time.
the european regional development fund, as was proposed by the commission, could be used to find resources for investment in housing and energy efficiency, so this is one instrument which will be available now, also within the framework of the recovery plan.
another possibility for countries like romania – i know this from my own country – is just to use the emissions trading scheme, which is within the current kyoto, so it is possible to use the income from that.
certainly, we in the czech presidency, in cooperation with the upcoming swedish presidency – for them it is a priority – will try to do our best and not to waste too much time.
we will ensure that these are the three priorities – energy, external relations and the economy – which are fully integrated and interconnected and focus on the concrete initiative; this is one of them.
it will in particular concentrate on the objective of ensuring reliable supplies of energy through the development of a range of energy relationships with third countries and regions and by working towards greater diversification of energy resources, as well as the transit routes.
the presidency intends to take this work forward on the basis of the elements contained in the commission communication on the second strategic energy review.
the council is expected to adopt a conclusion on this communication in february and energy security will be of particular focus in the spring 2009 european council.
these meetings will deal either exclusively with energy-related themes or will cover energy among the other issues.
as regards the specific discussion on energy strategic corridors to which the honourable member refers, the presidency is organising the following meetings.
this should lead to a greater diversification of energy supply routes, suppliers and sources, and will thus strengthen the energy security of the eu.
the issue of the strategic energy corridor is also likely to be addressed during the meeting of the eu-russia permanent partnership council on energy, which will also be organised under the czech presidency, probably in may, just to create a run-up to the summit meeting between the eu and russia, which we are planning for 22 may 2009. so the importance of the strategic energy corridors referred to by the honourable members has been clearly underlined by the ukrainian-russian gas dispute in early january.
so the presidency will work to ensure that appropriate and concrete follow-up is given to these measures as a part of the high priority it attaches to the issue of energy security.
i would like to ask how the czech republic, the country holding the presidency, views the nordstream project, which has both positive and negative aspects, and we know that there are some doubts about its ecological consequences.
in january this year, the european commission presented a package of additional proposals for the financing of energy and broadband projects under the european economic recovery plan.
the security of our eastern neighbours, in particular the energy security of ukraine and belarus, is also the security of the eu.
it is clear that oil prices are falling, but they will rise again once the current economic crisis is over; i therefore recall the importance of further diversifying the eu's energy sources and supply chains in order to mitigate the negative effects of a possible future oil crisis.
the dependence of eu member states, and in particular the eu's 'energy islands', on imports of energy resources and the infrastructure they have are varied.
can we talk about a single energy market when, for example, the baltic states, including lithuania, are energy islands?
europe's inability to speak with one voice with the main energy suppliers is also a major problem.
on paper we are creating an ambitious european energy policy, but in practice a bilateral energy policy remains dominant.
honey, politicizing the energy sector is not conducive to stability.
the missing energy links need to be created, and an eu coordination mechanism needs to be established to respond to similar crises.
it is necessary that member states which are most dependent on energy resources have sufficient reserves of those resources.
not only short-term measures for the security of energy supply have to be taken into account, but also the long-term perspective.
europe, in turn, needs to diversify its energy sources and improve security of supply.
the parties involved, employers, employees and public authorities need to understand that this procedure will help them to best anticipate the economic and social consequences of changes in the company's environment.
any undertaking operating in the territory of the european union faced with such a change in its economic environment should have the same means of foresight and preparedness as its competitors in the european union, which would also encourage fair competition between undertakings under the rules of the internal market.
− energy efficiency should be one of the main pillars of the eu's energy policy.
by using energy more efficiently in europe, we would ensure a more secure supply.
in the absence of any substantive measures, europe's dependence on imported energy (currently 50% imported) could reach 70% in the next 20 to 30 years, with some member states becoming even more dependent.
a more efficient use of energy would reduce environmental pollution.
more efficient energy use is one of the most effective ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to ensure that the eu's ambitious climate plans are delivered.
more efficient energy use can reduce the burden on the most vulnerable consumers and prevent energy poverty.
− i would argue that, given the painful past of commercial whaling and the recent high risks to whale populations, such as whale bycatch, collision with ships, global climate change and ocean noise pollution, the eu has a consistent and coherent role to play in the main international fora to ensure the highest level of protection for whales worldwide.
ensuring the security of energy supply in the european union, as well as the principle of energy solidarity, are key priorities on the eu agenda and must be taken into account in the eu budget.
in an attempt to address the problem of the baltic energy islands, which will pose a growing threat to lithuania's energy security following the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant at the end of this year, the european commission has drawn up a draft eu strategy for the baltic sea.
i asked the european commission's directorate-general for energy and transport to give me access to the document.
electronic stability control systems) or reduce co2 emissions (e.g.
smes are particularly vulnerable to rising energy and raw material prices, and therefore the competitiveness aspect of the sme is enhanced.
the promotion of higher environmental standards for production processes and products within the eu, combined with the promotion of the same standards worldwide and an even stronger eu market surveillance, will it be possible to contribute to the common global challenges such as climate change, the decline of fossil energy resources.
it will therefore be essential for the security of the eu's energy supply to reduce demand growth also at the global level, without jeopardising the enlargement objectives of third countries or the eu itself.
on the other hand, the expansion of the legal framework allows us to promote cooperation between the european union and the eastern neighbourhood, because it provides a stable environment for capital investment and the use of human knowledge.
these eib operations are of utmost importance in an environment of global financial crisis and recession.
i am happy that we managed to reach a compromise on all the major issues, such as the deadline for the presentation of a new proposal for a decision, which is now 30 april 2010, as well as on the sunset clause, which is 18 months after the deadline, 31 october 2011. the european parliament amended the commission’s proposal pointing out the importance of respect for human rights, development policies, energy diversification, request for strategic documents, greater transparency of the eib policies and activities.
secondly, some kind of temporary institutional environment for the decision-implementation mechanism should be created.
eur 5 billion for strategic energy projects and broadband internet.
of the 5 billion, 175 million are expected to go towards the energy bridge linking sweden with the baltic states, which have hitherto been an island off the european union's energy market.
− as the main objectives of this revision are to simplify and reformulate the regulation while reducing unnecessary administrative burden, thus fulfilling the commission's commitment to better regulation, ensuring compliance with the montreal protocol as amended in 2007, ensuring that future problems are addressed, ensuring timely recovery of the ozone layer and avoiding adverse impacts on human health and ecosystems, i am voting in favour of this legislation.
the european union's approach to energy in its relations with turkmenistan is certainly inseparable from monitoring the slightest developments in the field of human rights.
firstly, because the arctic region is thought to contain huge energy resources – as much as 20% of the world’s undiscovered technically recoverable reserves – the temptation to exploit these resources is irresistible.
secondly, the arctic environment is exceptionally fragile.
to save money and to protect the environment, we should abandon the waste of thousands of tonnes of paper and switch to electronic work in meetings.
i am sure that in the future, environmental protection and the limitation of waste will be given even more attention.
− oil is the most important source of energy in the european union, and the economy is highly dependent on its constant, reliable and affordable supply.
in 2030, oil will remain the main source of primary energy in the eu, accounting for around 35% of total energy consumption.
these factors must be taken into account in the development of a coherent and realistic european energy policy.
− as road vehicles emit almost 25% of the total co2, the eu's main challenge is to reduce the energy intensity of vehicles and the amount of carbon compounds they emit into the environment.
tyres account for between 20% and 30% of the total fuel consumption of vehicles and therefore the increased durability of tyres should be considered as part of an integrated approach to reduce the fuel consumption and emissions of road vehicles.
the list of targeted actions in the energy efficiency action plan, which envisages a 20% reduction in use by 2020, also highlights the possible use of tyre labelling as one of the ways to achieve this target.
decisions on transport infrastructure projects should be based on sound cost-benefit assessments, sustainability and the european added value for the international community.
− mr paleckis, i am convinced that the bonus article 169 initiative is expected to substantially improve the effectiveness of environmental and sustainable development policies for the entire baltic region.
it would, in particular, greatly contribute to the implementation of mainly the environmental part of the european union strategy for the baltic sea region that the commission is planning to present to the european council in june 2009. we are now moving ahead swiftly with the preparation of this legislative proposal on an article 169 and have included bonus-169 in our legislative programme for 2009. we are making every effort to table a legislative proposal as soon as we possibly can in 2009. however, the timing of the legislative proposal is not entirely in our hands: it also depends on the timely and successful response by the bonus consortium in revising the tentative action plan.
i would like to ask you whether the fact that the baltic sea environment will be even more tightly controlled, whether this project will be able to be somehow related to the environmental impact of the nordstream project in the baltic sea?
the creation of a single payment area and the adoption of the payment services directive are changing the payment environment in europe and it is therefore important that the popular electronic payment instrument direct debit can be used internationally from november 2009. in order to help establish that common direct debit model, the regulation provides that, in the absence of a bilateral agreement between the payment service providers of the payee and the payer, a flat-rate multi-party interchange fee of 0,08 euro cent for direct debits is to be introduced for a transitional period until 2012. the document also provides for ways to improve consumer protection and remove barriers to trade.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster, and i would like to ask the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the problem of air pollution can only be solved in the long term and only within the european framework, in particular by taking more active measures across borders.
the commission proposal is necessary to further reduce emissions of lng and to improve air quality and public welfare at regional and local level, to successfully deploy tier ii ghg systems worldwide and to improve the technology's capacity to reduce fuel vapour emissions by 95%.
− the commission has presented a very important additional energy package to the draft recovery plan, which is particularly important because the economic crisis is also a challenge for european energy.
we know that this is a very sensitive and old problem and that financing interconnection projects in a crisis would greatly accelerate regional energy development and interregional cooperation and strengthen the creation of a common european energy market.
carbon capture and storage projects, which assess climate change and renewable energy needs, because i believe that in the context of a fundamental economic crisis, the european energy sector needs to change structurally and systematically.
it is indeed a very important moment to assess the situation and to take a fresh look at many of the energy problems.
i think this package, these three programmes, would greatly strengthen european energy, and would have an impact on other sectors, and would greatly contribute to economic recovery in europe.
i believe that the value of this package of 3.9 billion is a significant amount which would help to solve the very urgent problem of european energy security.
in addition to the consequences of the energy crisis, the socioeconomic consequences, there is and remains a high political risk of problems with the supply of gas to individual european countries.
as the proposal sets very tight deadlines for project development and uptake, we believe that if money is not used, it should be reallocated to projects that focus on energy efficiency and renewable energy.
it was very difficult, i think, to achieve a geographical balance in the financing of these projects and to assess the measures of recovery (the extent to which they will affect macroeconomic processes and individual sectors) and to use them to finance projects in the various energy sub-sectors.
and i think this package is very important in the sense that the economic crisis in the european union is slowing down the investment process very much, and this package will be a very good impulse and signal for both the member states and the energy companies to continue investing in order to achieve our strategic energy objectives in the european union.
- i voted in favour of the report by mr eugenio maldeikis on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on eu financial support for energy projects.
my country, lithuania, like latvia, estonia and poland, which have been part of the european union for five years now in political and economic terms, has always been and remains an island in terms of energy, with no bridges linking it to the community's energy market.
in a resolution adopted today, the european parliament has allocated €175 million for the construction of an energy bridge linking lithuania and sweden.
the project will finally connect the energy markets of the countries of our region, which joined the eu in 2004, with those of the scandinavian countries and, consequently, with the eu market.
efforts are being made to improve our efforts at outreach in an increasingly difficult environment.
although the ways of providing social services, sharing competences and the conception of financial sustainability are different in eu member states, there was a good deal of consensus among the speakers at the conference on the role and goals of social services.
the important role of public authorities in guaranteeing quality, access and sustainability of social services is mentioned and it is stated that investing in social services, in particular during the present financial and economic crisis, pays and can strengthen the growth potential and the cohesion of economies and societies.
for the efd group exactly after 2564 hours, the ignalina nuclear power plant reactor in lithuania will be shut down the only and last energy source of lithuania's independence.
i would like, i hope, i believe that the european parliament, by supporting president buzse's political programme in the field of energy, i.e.
the diversification of energy supplies, the development of nuclear energy in the national states, would take the necessary concrete steps.
as regards the energy chapter, it is currently being examined in the various council configurations and is being discussed.
we will have close cooperation on climate issues ahead of copenhagen at the end of the year.
we have also been working together on energy issues for a long time.
we believe that this must now be taken to a higher level and we want to set up a special energy council for the eu and the united states.
it can be a good forum for increased cooperation between us on energy security, markets, sustainability policy and research into new energy technologies.
when it comes to energy security, we pay too little attention to renewable energy sources and especially to energy saving.
financial and economic mechanisms should be established at union level to encourage eu countries and individual companies to save energy and to switch to the latest, cleanest technologies, which would make a major contribution to energy security and the fight against climate change.
mr president, i voted in favour because the issue of energy supply security is of paramount importance today for all member states of the european union.
the recent russian-ukrainian crisis has clearly demonstrated existing problems in the energy sector, and especially the total dependence of some member states on single suppliers of natural gas.
now it is more important than ever to develop a comprehensive common energy policy based on solidarity, the diversification of energy sources and defence of common interests.
moreover, it will also promote economic growth and support sustainable development, actions against poverty, and stability in tajikistan and the central asia region.
we pay tribute to all those who have lost their lives and to those who continue their work in such an environment.
it is only through the effective and lawful prosecution of these killings that the climate of fear and impunity can be dissipated.
the global financial crisis also gave us a good opportunity to reconsider our priorities and actions, especially in the long-term management of sustainable economic recovery.
it is important to ensure long-term fiscal sustainability to avoid an undue burden on future generations, as well as to create more jobs and protect people from the impact of the crisis.
it is particularly important to prioritise job creation, to ensure high and sustainable growth in the real economy, to ensure the proper functioning of capital markets and credit, to maintain and promote employment and to protect people from the negative effects of the crisis, with a particular focus on the poorest and most vulnerable.
the fight against climate change is a testament to this.
the eu should set an attractive example not only by committing to reducing emissions but also by deploying renewable energy and improving energy efficiency.
let us not forget that even in the european union we see a wide gap between the countries that are successfully adopting the latest technologies, that are saving energy, and those that are lagging behind.
currently, there is no coordinated renewable energy strategy on both european and world scale.
for this reason, there is a big gap between the countries which have achieved major progress and success in renewable energy and countries which are still lagging behind in this area.
if we want to accelerate the process of increasing the share of renewable energy sources, different countries should act in a coordinated way and leading countries should share their best practice.
this agency, i think, would embark upon those goals and would give a new impetus and direction to renewable energy in general.
the second event was an expert conference on alcohol and health in stockholm on 21-22 september, aimed at supporting a sustainable, long-term and comprehensive eu strategy on alcohol.
the council is aware of the concerns regarding the environmental aspects of the nord stream gas pipeline project and has taken careful note of the european parliament's resolution on the environmental consequences of the planned baltic sea gas pipeline between russia and germany, adopted in july last year.
it is the convention on environmental impact assessment in a transboundary context.
the convention contains a number of relevant obligations binding on the parties, in particular to ensure that an environmental impact assessment is carried out, including consultation with other parties affected by a particular project.
the impact of the nord stream project on the sensitive baltic sea environment is of the utmost importance and needs to be carefully examined.
the fact that the gas pipeline is located close to important sea routes could also pose environmental and safety risks.
first, we reject the arrogance with which a third country ignores and rejects the eu as an equal and respected partner on matters of external energy security of importance to the union.
we cannot accept that gazprom, the main shareholder of nordstream, totally ignores our parliament's resolution on the environmental risks posed by the pipeline.
the problem is not only the tragic ecological state of the baltic sea, but also the moral condition of our institutions.
we voted here last year to demand an independent, non-pre-purchased environmental impact assessment and guarantees for coastal communities in the event of a disaster.
in fact, when we talk about energy, we sell freedom.
mr president, as the withdrawal of russia’s signature from the energy charter treaty is not a single event but a method used several times now, it would be worth inserting a note to the effect that the latest withdrawal ‘undermines the reliability of that country’s signature in general’.
climate change is a global political priority at the copenhagen summit.
the fight against climate change is a global action, and the active involvement of both developed and developing countries is necessary.
they must agree on mandatory targets to cut their emissions and, at the same time, find money to help developing countries deal with climate change.
i believe that we all have an interest in a clean and healthy environment, especially for our children, and that good examples of countries banning smoking in public spaces should encourage and inspire those countries that are more sceptical about this issue to defend the rights of non-smokers, and the european union institutions to look for ways to adopt binding legislation, taking into account the views of the european parliament.
− mr president, while we are getting closer to china in terms of trade and environmental cooperation and china was host to the wonderful olympic games last year, it is clearly backsliding in terms of ensuring human rights to its citizens.
the commission, together with the council and parliament, has found additional funds to finance certain priorities, in particular the economic recovery plan, such as the increase in broadband internet access, and the energy plans.
one of them is 'how can we best address the urgent and serious environmental problems in the baltic sea?'
this is the first of several european macro-regional development plans which are expected to improve the region's environment and enhance its competitiveness.
the larger developing countries have put their bids to limit their growth of emissions on the table – china, india, indonesia, brazil, south africa and south korea – and this accounts for significant contributions.
we also need a framework for adapting to climate changes as well as for technology transfer and capacity building.
− as the honourable member rightly points out, climate financing for developing countries is an essential element of the negotiations in copenhagen and it will be key to reaching an agreement.
at the december council a few days ago, the eu and its member states expressed their readiness to allocate eur 2.4 billion a year for the years 2010-2012 to help developing countries in their fight against climate change.
as you have pointed out in your question, the october european council has endorsed the commission estimate that a total net incremented cost of adaptation and mitigation in developing countries could amount to around eur 100 billion per year by 2020, to be met through a combination of developing countries’ own efforts, the international carbon market and international public finance; and this is what the commission has estimated the need to be.
and as the european council stressed in october, the copenhagen agreement needs to include provisions on the objective that global warming should not exceed 2°c, ambitious emission reduction commitments by developed countries, adaptation technology and a deal on financing.
climate issues have been top of the agenda on all these occasions, so there has been a wide variety of meetings.
as the least-developed countries are the ones who will suffer mostly from climate change, therefore it is logical that certain parts of the development budget are pinpointed to different kinds of climate actions.
people with mobility impairments do not have an environment adapted to them.
it lists concrete projects in the fields of border control, transport, transit, cultural and historical heritage, social and energy security.
it is certainly an essential partner in efforts to ensure european energy security.