- the madam president, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs, mrs klaß, mrs breyer, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of this parliament for their excellent work on the proposals for the framework directive on the sustainable use of pesticides and for the revision and improvement of the regulation.
the agreement ensures the environmental integrity of the commission's original proposal and sets even more ambitious environmental objectives in some important areas.
by reaching agreement on the directive, the european union is demonstrating that it has the political will to take effective measures to protect the health of citizens and the environment.
the agreement reached is a major step forward in protecting public health and the environment in the european union.
however, they can also have an impact on human health, animal health and the environment.
the top priority was – and still is – to achieve the highest possible level of protection for human and animal health, and the environment.
to promote sustainability in agriculture, safer alternatives would substitute the more hazardous products.
as part of the overall compromise, i would like to propose the following text in relation to the risk assessment to bees: ‘when revising the data requirements for active substances and plant protection products, as referred to in article 8(1) (b) and (c), the commission will pay particular attention to study protocols allowing a risk assessment which takes into account the real exposure of bees to these products, in particular through nectar and pollen.’ the draft compromise would create an even safer framework for the use of plant protection products in the european union, and would strengthen our environmental safeguards, and the protection of our citizens’ health.
finally, i would like to emphasise that it is fully compatible with, and complementary to, the proposal for a directive on the sustainable use of pesticides, which falls under the responsibility of my colleague, commissioner dimas.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
if patients don't report any abnormalities with the medication they're taking, the surveillance goes to waste.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
often dichloromethane is used by individuals who are doing restoration work in their homes and who find this product effective and wonderful, but do not realize that by using this product in a closed environment, they may lose consciousness very quickly and there is even a danger of death if one is not careful.
madam president, on the energy issue, europe's credibility is at stake.
thirdly, we must combine the european economic recovery with a major energy investment plan.
instead of building stadiums for european championships, i would prefer to see investment in the citizens: buildings, heating networks, renewable energy.
the last point: we are more dependent on nuclear energy than on gas.
secondly, renewable energy.
if we say 60 percent renewable energy in the total energy mix in 2050, that means we have at least 90 percent renewable energy in the electricity sector.
we will have that 90% renewable energy in the electricity sector much sooner than 2050, because we have already adopted a directive that says: 35% by 2020. if i can get from 15 percent green electricity today to 35 percent by 2020, i'll be at 60 percent and beyond by 2030. thirdly, gas as a transition.
if i put efficiency and renewable energy in place and make a halfway decent gas policy, and if i have to, invest a little bit more in ccs, then i don't need nuclear energy, and i don't have to take that risk.
zero euro for energy efficiency!
this is a waste of money.
because i need the cities as partners for a new energy policy.
zero euro for solar energy, zero euro for biomass, and zero euro for the energy sector.
that means i'm making an economic recovery plan where i'm giving three and a half billion to the energy oligopolies and not a single euro to the partners i need to make the change to green energy.
this is an excellent piece of work, as this report sets out in great detail a wide range of actions that will need to be taken in areas as diverse as energy, biofuels, energy efficiency, mobility, tourism, agriculture and livestock, soil protection and water management, as well as waste and resource management, future-oriented issues, and education and training.
the excellent work of the temporary committee on climate change, set up on 25 april 2007, is driven by a visionary spirit and its proposals against climate change deserve the support of all actors in political, economic and social life.
will there be funding for those who join together to prevent waste of resources for research infrastructures and to encourage them?
on amendment 7: i can assure you that the commission is very keen to specifically address the question of the use of reduced rates in order to promote energy efficiency.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
we are promoting best available technologies in europe for the sake of health, for the sake of the environment, but also for the sake of the competitiveness of european industry.
as far as tyres are concerned, i think it is worthwhile to reduce co2 emissions by improving tyres with less rolling resistance and introducing electronic pressure monitoring systems.
the reduction of co2 emissions must not, however, be at the expense of safety, i.e.
a 5 billion stimulus plan which is not a stimulus plan because 50% of the projects on the list will not see any investment in 2009 or 2010 because the authorizations for carbon sequestration will not exist, for example!
secondly, we must open up this stimulus package to ecotechnologies, renewable energy and investment in buildings in europe's cities.
these means of transport must become less polluting, less energy-consuming.
you also have to call to the table all the environmental ngos, the development ngos and the social ngos which are preparing, with society and with citizens, the changes we need in society.
it is already clear this evening that we need a fourth package on liberalisation, with five items: firstly, ownership unbundling for pipelines and grids; secondly, access to storage of electricity and of gas; thirdly, more power for the eu agency for the cooperation of energy regulators; fourthly, public ownership of the power exchanges, because otherwise it will never function; and fifthly, we need a specific cartel law for infrastructure-based economies.
we will end up with 10 mega-players who do not have any interest in either an environmental agenda or a consumer agenda.
it is a big victory for the energy oligopolies and it is a defeat for consumers in europe.
such destruction would have been contrary to the environmental objectives set.
the most sensitive points were certainly the mandatory moulding, in relief or hollow, the energy performance, the wet grip index and the noise emissions of the tyres.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
due to the international climate – the financial and economic crisis – it is also a priority for most member states.
the commission's position is more that of an industrial lobby than that of a consumer protection and environmental protection simplification in europe.
understandably, winegrowers in many european regions fear the economic, social and environmental consequences of the lifting of the ban on the blending of white and red wines to produce rosé.
but is it prepared to use this time to meet our second request, namely to hold a wide consultation with the professionals in the sector on the basis of a thorough study of the possible economic, social and environmental consequences of lifting the ban on cutting?
instead, you have decided to concentrate the bulk of these eur 5 billion on old-fashioned state aid to those least in need of cash: the big energy oligopolies in the uk, germany and france.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i hope that this will not happen again, but security of supply is also a matter of concern, not just in the energy sector.
if we are not prepared to take the measures called for in our resolution, the cost of the social, economic and environmental consequences in the eu will be many times what ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing.
security of supply, not just in the energy sector, is a must.
taiwan's participation in the un framework convention on climate change is absolutely necessary to put it in a position to avoid the worst because other climate depressions will inevitably follow.
i would like to thank virtually all the participants in the debate for their support for the very important work of the eu in the climate negotiations.
however, oda support will also play a role precisely because development issues are so integrated with climate policy.
i would like to see strong support in copenhagen for efforts to combat deforestation and for reforestation and sustainable forestry.
i mean, the people who are downplaying the climate problems are really the ones who are actually sending the expensive bill to ordinary people.
it is also a way of hiding the problem and a way of hiding the reasons why ordinary people are paying the bill for the destruction of the climate.
this is true in the developed world, and it is even more true in the developing world, where the poorest people are most at risk of being affected by climate change.
however, there is also a need for pressure to increase efforts to do the homework of reducing emissions sufficiently.
that is why it is so important that the eu also tackles the issue of emissions at its heart, i.e.
the emissions increases themselves.
now it's time to make sure that we get others to join us as well, to the level needed to save the climate.
it is taking the lead in the march towards a low-carbon society, which also means creating the conditions for real development opportunities in developing countries.
the developing countries will not have to bypass the fossil-dependent economies of the developed countries, but will essentially be able to build a low-carbon growth that is the future.
it is also a way of finally turning to the fast-growing developing economies and saying that the developed countries have a responsibility for the poorest and the most vulnerable, but the fastest growing developing economies, where china is already the world's largest emitter, must also take their responsibility and make their contribution to solving the climate problem.
that of course will continue, but we should find a measuring mechanism by which we can clearly distinguish the present efforts we are making from the additional efforts which have to be made for climate change.
the european union must remain credible when it comes to the impact of climate change on developing countries.
there can be no question of diluting this promise, either by reducing the commitment as i have just mentioned, or by reallocating the sums paid out under official development assistance to the fight against climate change.
the european union would do well to leave no doubt about its determination to fight for the achievement of the millennium development goals on the one hand and against climate change on the other.
to this end, it would be useful to consider new north-south partnerships, particularly in the field of alternative energy production.
the exploitation of solar energy for electricity generation in the southern mediterranean could, if we wish, become one of the major north-south projects in response to the economic crisis on the one hand and the climate crisis on the other.
if copenhagen is not a success, we do not even have a 50% chance of keeping this planet from going into dangerous climate change.
so it becomes a stable environment for democracy.
if i am correctly informed, if we in the european union achieve the targets we have set for ourselves 20% renewable energy by 2020 and 20% energy efficiency by 2020 , then the european union's energy models show that this alone will achieve a co2 reduction of between 18% and 21%, depending on how many coal or gas power plants are still running.
so i don't understand why we are arguing so much to get to 30%, because we can easily get to 30% to 35% by implementing efficiency, renewable energy and then ets and a little bit of carbon offsetting.
i abstained on the climate resolution because the european parliament, as usual, is showing good feelings without taking reality into account.
the european union emits some 11% of the world's co2 emissions.
i voted in favour of this resolution on the european union strategy for the copenhagen climate change conference because i am convinced that a comprehensive international agreement can effectively reverse the trend of unbridled growth in greenhouse gas emissions.
environmental policy in general, and climate policy in particular, is also a driver of technological innovation and can generate new growth opportunities for our businesses.
i welcome the fact that europe is playing a leading role in having an energy and climate policy that aims to reduce emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990. i am firmly opposed to additional binding targets without a global international agreement.
on the one hand, europe, which is responsible for 11% of global emissions, does not have enough weight to reverse the trend on its own and, on the other hand, i fear the relocation of energy-intensive and co2-intensive industries.
only a comprehensive agreement for the medium and long term will provide the predictability needed to commit to the major research and development projects and substantial investments required to decouple economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions in a sustainable way.
the european council last thursday agreed on the amount of 7.2 billion euros to finance the partial adaptation of developing countries to climate change, and that is very good.