i have reason to believe that the recent gas crisis has opened the eyes of politicians to the vulnerability of many parts of europe in terms of energy supply.
both the recovery plan, the commission's second strategic review and this report offer hope for a single european energy policy, including the eventual elimination of europe's isolated energy islands, including one of the baltic states.
climate policy is important both from an environmental perspective and the need to modernise energy.
taking into account the progress made in kyoto by countries with more than 20% emission reductions since 1990, including the impact of the closure of ignalina on the energy supply of lithuania and latvia, in providing for the possibility of compensation is to be welcomed, but each member state must develop a clear energy efficiency strategy.
in order to achieve the 2020 target, an effective incentive system at european union level should be established to support businesses and individuals using or introducing renewable energy sources.
the current challenge is not to maintain existing jobs but to maintain the future competitiveness of the european motor industry, and public support for the motor industry is therefore linked to two main objectives: reducing dependence on oil and its associated price fluctuations and substantially improving environmental performance, reducing emissions overlapping objectives.
as you know, we have updated it in cooperation with the commission and parliament in 2008. that document does not replace the 2003 document but it certainly reinforces it and brings it up to date, incorporating the threats and challenges that we face in the world in which we are living today, from climate change to terrorism, from energy security to piracy.
civilian action is not possible without a secure environment.
we could talk for hours about many other issues – energy, non-proliferation, you name it, but i think the important thing is that we have this fundamental agreement in the three reports that have been presented today on what we have been doing over the last period of time.
in the ess report it is rightly said that the links between internal and external eu policies have become more pronounced, which is clearly essential when we are considering issues such as energy security and climate change, or the focus on the security and development nexus and recognition of the importance of long-term poverty reduction as a means to reducing security threats.
turning to energy, the gas crisis affecting the eu this year was unprecedented in its effect.
with regard to energy security, it is clear that we have lessons to draw.
for instance, the need for a functioning eu internal energy market, for interconnection and infrastructure projects, for the development of mechanisms to handle supply crises and for the eu to have a strong external energy policy is now clear, and we support this broad approach.
firstly, it is important to review the european security strategy every five years, because we see that in recent years security issues such as energy security, cyber security, climate security have become very topical, and that potential conflict zones are moving from one region to another.
from an economic and environmental policy point of view, it would be important to extend the reduced vat rate to energy-saving materials and services related to energy saving and energy efficiency.
i would also like to thank my colleagues for their understanding of the absence of time-related charges in the border countries of the european union, where there is a lot of pollution caused by heavy vehicles that are parked at the border for long periods of time during the day and night, and finally, i very much hope that after we have adopted this directive in one form or another, i very much hope that the member states, despite the crisis situation, will not underestimate the long-term objectives of the short-term situation, which i think would be very important in solving this problem.
as a result, more efficient route planning will reduce fuel consumption, harmful emissions and, as a result, make air transport more environmentally friendly.
the broad agreement should include an energy security strategy based on the ratification of the energy charter.
an appropriate environmental impact assessment of the northern gas corridor should also be required.
i support the amendments proposed by the committee responsible to the commission proposal on energy efficiency and investment in renewable energy in residential buildings.
the committee's proposal will help to increase demand and to speed up the flow of money into energy efficiency measures.
member states are now given the possibility to channel these funds in such a way as to maximise the impact of energy efficiency.
the most comprehensive outcome would be to use these funds for purposes that would free up consumer initiative for energy efficiency measures, and the most welcome would be measures that would reduce the risks for those who are thinking about energy efficiency investments themselves.
such an approach would not only have a multiplier effect on economic growth but would also promote a more rapid spread of energy saving awareness in the member states, but the amount of funds available would require member states to limit the number of beneficiaries and in this respect it would also be rational to follow the commission's initiative to channel these funds primarily to low-income households.
at the same time, i would particularly stress the need to diversify energy sources by developing real incentives for the wider uptake of renewable sources.
as buildings account for 40% of the total energy consumption in the european union, their energy efficiency, economy, heating and the emphasis on the use of renewable energy sources are of paramount importance.
as a former environment minister in latvia, i have been concerned for a long time about what is happening in this field, about this amazing cruelty to animals, and this amazing cruelty is expressed on an industrial scale.
the agreement reached to support the long-term energy policy of the european union by providing short-term stimulus to economic recovery seems to me to achieve both objectives.
the only exception that cannot provide a short-term economic return is the financing of carbon capture and storage projects, but this undoubtedly meets the long-term energy policy objectives by increasing the technological competitiveness of european union companies on world markets where alternative forms of energy will not be able to replace coal combustion in the foreseeable future.
i very much welcome the fact that the bulk of the funding has been directed towards projects for interconnecting the european energy networks.
although these investments do not solve the problem of the full integration of the three baltic markets into the european networks, they are nevertheless an important, strengthening and contributing factor to the security of energy supply.
i hope that this will serve as an incentive for the baltic states to continue structural reforms in their energy systems, to create market conditions that will improve the situation of energy suppliers in the region.
the 5 billion initiative as a whole is a good basis for both the further development of the european union's common energy policy and for rural development in the long term.
i believe that a greater emphasis should be placed on energy efficiency and diversification, creating real incentives for the use of offshore wind energy, geothermal and other renewable energy resources.
the plans of the member states, including the big germany, france, the uk , must be drawn up in the european union in the direction of a common energy policy.
there is a real need to support local and regional initiatives towards the deployment and use of renewable energy sources.
the compromise of not returning these five billion to donor countries, but using energy for large-scale rural development projects, is nevertheless such a major political emphasis.
i understand the comments of some colleagues that a large part of the money has gone back to these countries and their energy projects, but i think that the principle of solidarity is still very much alive in this proposal.
and i think that the launch of a long-term energy project, such as the connection of the baltic states to the nordic electricity grids, is also the right signal, because the short-term crisis management issues, however, have to be dealt with by the member states themselves, taking into account their specific situation.
i would like to express my appreciation, ladies and gentlemen, for this report and for the intention to use community financial assistance for energy projects to help the economy recover.
clearly, energy projects are our future, and those countries that adapt to a low-carbon economy, that demand better innovation and the introduction of renewable energy sources, will also be winners in their competition.
i would like to see the commission proposals and a well-founded programme to increase the amount of money allocated to energy efficiency projects.
among the many important priorities that sweden has set for its presidency, i would like to highlight the european union's strategy for the baltic sea region, in particular the section on energy market security.
the security of a common european energy market is not possible as long as there are fragmented and mutually isolated markets for both electricity and gas in europe.
to tackle this problem and diversify the risks of energy supply, we need a single energy policy for the european union.
such a policy should be based not only on energy efficiency and renewable resources but also on the creation of a single electricity and gas market with functioning interconnections.
it provides for the gradual integration of energy markets in the region, overcoming the shortcomings of interconnection and establishing common market mechanisms.
the legacy of the soviet union's occupation of the baltic sea region has created a fragmented and partially isolated market, which increases the risks to our energy supply.
our challenge for the future is to change this situation and to increase our overall energy security.
i wish the swedish presidency the best of luck in getting this important work under way with energy.
mr president, we call for an accelerated move towards a common energy policy to reduce europe's dependence on monopolies.
as a latvian politician, i know very well what it means for a country to be energy dependent.
although latvia produces about one third of all energy from domestic renewable resources, the other two thirds of our energy balance comes mainly from one supplier country russia.
as a small country with a high dependence on energy supplies, we understand how expensive this dependence can be both in terms of price to the final consumer and to the country as a whole in terms of political influence.
the energy balance situation in each member state of the european union is different, but we all share the same concern: the security of energy supply.
security of supply is achieved through diversification of energy sources, because the more suppliers we have, the less dependent we are on any individual supplier.
we need a single european energy policy to coordinate our action on all energy issues.
the themes of the conference would be, firstly: energy, security, economy, transit problems, which in belarus are very significant, as also for the eu; secondly: visa questions, neighbourhood questions regarding citizens; thirdly: the problems with the democratic situation, party problems and human rights; and fourthly: the real view from the belarus side – how they see the eastern partnership in the near future.