in such an environment surely we are not expecting these countries to abstain from doing all that which is possible to protect the interests of its citizens.
a cause for concern may be that most of the general and business aviation falls outside of the scope of the commission directive to include aviation activities in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading.
considering the fast growth rate of the sector, i think there is a need to offset its environmental impact in one form or another.
− when we talk about wilderness, in reality we are referring to a natural environment from which significant human activity has been absent, in other words, virgin areas.
− natura 2000 has done much to protect unspoilt or virgin environment.
− i agree with the rapporteur on the need to emphasise the importance of data-gathering, proportionate regulation, airport and airspace capacity, and environmental sustainability, whilst acknowledging the importance of one of the fastest-growing industries of our time.
we call to strike a balance in these mentioned issues so as not to hinder the business and leave it sustainable.
the issue of nuclear energy has once again taken a prominent position.
one cannot fail to take note of the possibility of evaluating this energy supply.
i am informed that malta was considering the importation of energy generated from nuclear plants in france.
this energy, on reaching malta, would be in the form of electricity and the negative aspects associated with nuclear plants would not be an issue.
the energy generated would be cheaper than that from a gas pipeline from sicily.
− the three main objectives – security of supply and solidarity between member states; combating climate change: recalling the ‘three times 20’ objective for 2020 and the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by between 50% and 80% by 2050; and the economic growth of the eu: obtaining the best prices while avoiding price volatility – are of utmost importance when we discuss the european energy policy.
we have to consider the policy that the decentralisation of energy sources will have, and new types of renewable energy should also be encouraged.
the european union should take the leading role in the battle against climate change and this report is a huge step towards that direction.
the rights to life, security, health, education and environmental protection are fundamental and it is our duty to safeguard them for the generations to come.
we are already aware of the huge damage that climate change is causing and we are duty bound to minimize this damage as much as possible.
without loosing any more time we must:(a) undertake a thorough analysis of children’s rights;(b) build up existing youth and children’s networks as sustainable platforms for consulting children;(c) ensure that international agreements between the eu and third countries should contain a legally binding clause on the protection of children’s rights.
we need accessible structures for care and treatment of mental illnesses, but it is also very important to have a supportive environment such as labour market integration programmes.
with regard to the housing sector, it is possible to apply reduced vat rates to renovation and repair work aimed at increased energy savings and efficiency.
− the barcelona process was adopted by the heads of state and government at the summit for the mediterranean held in paris on july 13, 2008. it contributes towards peace and prosperity, and it will constitute a step towards economic and regional integration as well as ecological and climate cooperation between the mediterranean countries.
– i welcome the efforts of the commission in the field of competition policy, its effective challenging of cartels and the record fines that were imposed on offenders in 2006 and 2007. i fully support the commission conclusion that european energy markets are not functioning properly.
energy costs represent a share of household budgets that is growing at an alarming rate, and with the effects of the financial crisis we are likely to see a substantial increase in poverty across the eu.
it is unacceptable that energy market inefficiencies are distorting the market to the detriment of businesses and consumers.
to address irrational energy pricing we should probably consider the creation of an independent energy regulators in all member states who would have the competancy to ensure that any increase in pricing levels of public utilities like energy and water, drainage, airport charges etc..., would have to be justified.
we must capitalise on the major benefits of the current progress and ensure that we include the creation of a superior operational business environment for smes, including a more effective regulatory culture taking root across europe.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment of natural resources is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty.
− i agree that the eu maintains a leading role in international climate policy.
the eu as a whole appears to be on track regarding targets for climate change, but all countries including malta have to be careful not to lag behind, as this will affect the credibility of the union.
in addition, the recovery plan must also serve the purpose of delivering a fair international agreement to give poorer countries the opportunity to escape poverty without fuelling global warming, by helping to finance massive investment.
i think it is important to address the performance and sustainability of the aviation system.
– energy costs are growing at an alarming rate, contributing to a substantial increase in energy-related poverty across the eu.
however, the market price of energy is only one side of the problem.
there is a significant, additional financial burden on consumers due to energy market inefficiencies and distortions.
for example, in malta consumers and businesses saw an exorbitant increase in their energy bills when the price of oil was at its high, but there was no decrease even when the price of oil dropped more than half.
– i would like to draw my attention to the environmental situation of marsaxloqq bay.
now an incineration plant is being planned in this bay and once again the inhabitants of this region are going to be subject to environmental nightmare.
i do not repeat what i said earlier, namely the three main pillars of this policy, a common asylum system in line with our humanitarian traditions, more effective control of irregular immigration through more integrated management of our internal borders, our visa policy, and then, of course, a strengthening of the effectiveness of our fight against human trafficking and the establishment of a determined return policy aimed at the sustainable reintegration of migrants into their communities of origin, as well as an opening up to legal migration in a framework that takes into account the needs of the host countries without forgetting the needs of the countries of origin and the respect of the rights of migrants.
i think it is important to put new energy into this area.
we have the financial crisis, climate change, the problem of immigrants, how we will create more jobs in europe, and so the personal opinion of the president of the czech republic cannot stop europe from continuing to work towards the levels we are working towards.
other preventive work is done, such as looking at the climate.
− irena was officially established on 26 january 2009. the purpose of this organisation is to become the headquarters for promoting a rapid transition towards the use of sustainable energy.
this, i think, could be achieved through the revision of the lisbon strategy and an integrated vision for 2020. we have to base the european union’s long-term strategy on new sources of sustainable growth, for instance, what we call ‘white’ jobs, in social services, where there have been 3.3 million new jobs since 2000. that is 16% of all new jobs.
europe is facing today significant challenges due to the financial crisis, climate change, energy supply, security and immigration.
instead we will be better placed to face the real realities facing europe, namely the economic situation, namely employment, namely climate change, namely immigration.
we must therefore act and act also by creating the necessary climate to generate trust between the two sides, so that there are two different, viable states living together in peace.