the debate on the sustainable use and marketing of plant protection products is a particularly difficult one.
on the one hand, chemical agents are harmful to the environment and to health.
the main task for policy makers and politicians is to find a healthy balance between sustainability and agricultural economics.
if the pesticide is reduced but then used in higher concentrations, there are few environmental and health benefits.
i think that the compromise reached is a step towards more sustainable agriculture.
of course, pesticides play an important role in preventing disease and pest infestation, but chemical pesticides also pollute the environment and can be harmful to health.
secondly - and this is at least as important - there are incentives in the legislation to promote development for more sustainable means and means for small farmers.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
you're making normal sustainable production in agriculture and horticulture impossible.
however, the one concern that farmers have is: we're doing sustainable, but the others...?
it protects the ability to keep up with changes in our fast-moving media environment.
i would like to draw attention to a specific point in my report, mr president, and that is energy cooperation with the western balkans, which i believe is a very topical subject.
the union must seriously work on an external energy policy.
i am also a member of the foreign affairs committee; we have already adopted a solid report a few years ago to arrive at a european external energy policy.
- ladies and gentlemen, our society cannot live without energy.
in the medium term, i think it is very important to establish a european energy market.
i am thinking, for example, of the accelerated construction of the nabucco and north stream pipelines; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the energy market, such as the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax.
after my visit to srebrenica in march 2007, i asked the european commission to contribute to sustainable income and employment through projects to promote tourism, which would make srebrenica more than just a place of history and great memories.
it made srebrenica a base of operations against the serbian environment, when it was inevitable that it would eventually be swallowed up by that same environment.
it made srebrenica a base of operations against the serbian environment, when it was inevitable that it would eventually be swallowed up by that same environment.
on the one hand, they concern the limitation of iran's military power and the prevention of the use of nuclear energy.
the report by mr laperrouze tackles the real problems of energy supply which the european union is facing today.
the report sets out a number of guidelines for the european energy market which will reduce the european union's vulnerability in the event of a new conflict.
i can therefore support the aim of a greater variety of energy sources and partner countries from which the eu imports energy, in short the necessary energy diversification.
we are also making the internal market work better by creating new links between the energy networks of the member states.
rather, investing in more cross-border connections could reduce the dependency on one or a few third countries in a more sustainable way.
other important policies in the report with which i fully agree are increasing energy efficiency and increasing the share of renewable energy.
however, member states differ on whether nuclear energy should play a role in reducing co2 emissions.
first of all, this report recognises that climate change is a multifaceted issue.
climate change affects all sectors, not just industry, transport and energy, for which we have already set rules, but also agriculture, health, science and technology, ict, education, soil, water and land use.
the second main line is that we believe that climate policy must also be social and based on solidarity.
we must take account of employment, income and energy poverty.
without a clear social commitment, it is extremely difficult to maintain political support for climate policy.
aid operations to banks and companies must have at least a sustainable component.
that is good for employment, good for energy security and good for the climate.
we don't usually talk about that when we talk about climate.
good agriculture, good land use and good use of biomass can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gases.
if we want to change our consumption behaviour, we need to know exactly which products are responsible for a lot of greenhouse gases and then we may have to change our consumption patterns.
it is not easy, of course, but the problem of climate change - as karl-heinz florenz has just said - cannot be solved by a few technical maneuvers.
free energy audits for homes, better public transportation, local and regional food production.
the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which will contribute to innovation, economic growth, improved energy supply, improved food production, more employment and a more stable climate.
on behalf of the ind/dem group it may be an unfortunate time to talk about global warming now, when much of western europe is experiencing a very cold winter.
to limit or prevent the negative effects of climate change, strong action is needed in a wide area.
in the run-up to the copenhagen climate conference, we will have to maintain our ambition, accompanied by a wide range of measures.
the answer lies in greening the economy and making business, households and government more sustainable.
businesses seeking support for such an approach - developing sustainable initiatives for green technology - still face a number of obstacles.
i do not think that the cultivation of fodder crops for intensive livestock farming is detrimental to the climate.
nor do i think that there should be a european soil directive on climate change.
finally, ensuring a sustainable energy supply based on eu rules and finally, getting the kosovo economy off the ground.
if we want to have innovation in the sector - we voted yesterday on a climate report - then there is a lot that can be improved in the area of animal feed, so that the emissions of all kinds of gases from livestock are reduced.
everything on the label, energy, protein, etc., is important.
i have been here for the last 10 years advocating a bottom-up politics, seen from the perspective of the poor, the marginalized, the people who suffer from a lack of democracy and public services, the victims of environmental disasters or wars, in short, all the people who are disadvantaged by a lack of equality for all people.
the granting of large mining concessions to foreign companies is depriving the indigenous people of important livelihoods and causing serious damage to nature and the environment.
for the ind/dem group, by mr de gucht and others the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in the past we discussed only security issues and now we even discuss climate change, energy etc.
we will also be in favour of the removal of the remaining technical nuclear weapons in europe and it would be helpful in supporting ideas to bring the fuel cycle under international control in order to make sure that countries that want to develop nuclear energy have peaceful access but will not be able to abuse that militarily.
tax measures, such as reducing vat in, for example, housing construction and renovation, in making housing and cultural heritage more energy efficient and more efficient, and all sorts of other things, can give a boost to the housing market, which is now very tight.
for the sake of clarity, it is not the epp amendment of the imco committee that emphasizes the point of energy saving.
it is clear, however, that parliament is strongly in favour of energy conservation.
i would like to emphasise once again, particularly regarding energy efficiency and renovation of buildings, that this is a very good instrument.
- mr president, our industry is important for the economy, but it also often leads to pollution of the air, water and soil.
the european union has been tackling this form of environmental pollution for decades, and recently the focus has been on co2 and climate change in environmental policy.
sometimes it seems that this is the only environmental problem.
the danger, however, is that environmental problems are reduced to climate change.
however, we face many more challenges in environmental policy.
the ippc directive is therefore a good way of protecting the environment.
we have discussed the proposals in detail in the committee on the environment and have reached an acceptable compromise on many points.
this is where the greatest environmental benefits are to be found.
for example, the emission standards for power stations should be about as strict as those for waste incineration plants, especially when we consider that power stations also incinerate waste.
there should be an emission ceiling for coal-fired power stations, either by using ccs or by using 40 to 50% renewable biomass.
a cap on co2 emissions is the only way we can both continue to use coal and meet our climate goals.
but that is not the case, because the ets allows for exceptions for coal-fired power stations and also allows energy-intensive industry to recoup the higher cost of more expensive electricity.
if you think the ets will solve everything, you don't need to make demands on cars, you don't need to ban light bulbs and you don't need a directive on renewable energy.
it is also a fact that easy co2 reductions are not to be found in the steel or cement industry, but in the energy sector.
no, mr rapporteur, it is a question of the rules of the game for the internal market, which are intended to make sustainable transport more possible in europe.
we are strongly in favour of investing in sustainable transport.
the transfer of external costs for air pollution and noise pollution can therefore be counted on our approval if the proceeds - and this is widely supported - are also invested in making road transport cleaner.
a congestion charge has a very limited environmental impact, while congestion is not being solved and the congestion charge is creating an extra burden, an extra burden for smes in this time of economic crisis, and that is bad for employment.
these developments have negative effects on the environment.
this again calls for more transport and further increases the environmental burden.
in the almost ten years that i have been a member of this parliament, there has been much talk of attributing this environmental damage to traffic, but unfortunately it has not yet been sufficiently successful.
in the absence of such a clear objective, calculation models and more european rules will only create red tape and will not benefit people and the environment.
the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, also calls for special attention to be paid to noise pollution from rail freight traffic.
let us not hesitate to pass the costs of traffic jams, air pollution and noise pollution on to the consumer.
with the exception of maritime and air transport, which is covered by an emissions trading system, these carriers will also have to pay their external costs.
think of clean environmental or medical technologies or the growing sector of, say, european computer games.
the flexibility is aimed at speeding up spending schedules, simplifying approval and facilitating the handling of preparatory costs, substantially expanding the eib's capacity with concrete programmes, including sustainable urban regeneration, and increasing energy efficiency opportunities, including in the old member states.
temporary incentives that meet the sustainability test can therefore be applied on a limited scale.
the objectives of the lisbon strategy should not be put on hold, but rather we should focus more on education and research, innovation, sustainability and a strong european market.
turkey is of strategic importance to the european union, particularly because of our energy supply and everything connected with it, and we in the pse group are in favour of opening the energy chapter in the negotiating process.
the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution.
there is often also a lot of room for foreign companies, which are predatory and bad for the environment and their employees.
in fact, it was the first time that the european union and the african union, on the basis of shared values and principles and mutual respect, had jointly adopted a strategy, agreed to jointly achieve the millennium development goals and jointly address the major common challenges in areas such as security, migration and climate change.
however, the fact that beijing also invests in countries like zimbabwe says a lot about its contribution to sustainable democracy and good governance in this continent.
the financial crisis, the increased competition due to globalisation, the climate crisis and the lagging performance on the lisbon objective call for greater inclusiveness, strengthening and improvement in regional policy.
it provides an overview of the effects of sectoral community and decentralised action such as research and development, the common agricultural policy, traffic and transport, employment situations and the fight against climate change.
- mr president, this morning i was the first speaker in this joint debate and looking back i think we have given a very good signal to our citizens, to the people who are working in a decentralised way to implement integrated policies, that the european parliament is choosing to continue with cohesion policy and appreciates their work in all those many projects, whether it is r & d developments or research infrastructure or renewable energy projects.
in the energy sector, for example, there is still some 2 billion to be found for energy projects, not only from this year's budget, but also from next year's budget and perhaps the budget for the year after that.
the result is that this also imposes a burden on the environment of 300 million euros a year, and i am not even talking about the waste of energy caused by these cheap chargers, because these chargers often remain in the socket and continue to use energy without a telephone.
but it can also be approached from the perspectives of food safety, the consumer, health and the environment, in other words, based on the well-being of the european citizen.
the eu also talks a lot about the environment and animal welfare, and i thought: let us not just keep to words in this report, but let us also put action behind the words.
so when my report on novel foods had to make a choice, i chose food safety, consumer welfare, food safety, the environment and animal welfare as the first priority.
i think a lot of consumers don't know what it is either, but it turns out it's already in our food more than we think: in the case of energy drinks, fruit and vegetable packaging, but also in certain oils and teas, for example.
- president, closing the ozone hole is important for the environment and for the health of the entire world population.
the ozone in the stratospheric layer protects us from the sun's harmful uv rays.
the ozone-depleting substances regulation is primarily aimed at protecting the stratospheric ozone layer, but also at preventing climate change.
the substances banned have both ozone-depleting and global warming potential.
the main ozone depleting substances are found in the exhaust gases of spray cans, refrigerators, insulation materials and some specific solvents and cleaning agents.
the cfcs and halons which have the strongest ozone depleting effect have been eliminated after a limited number of exceptions.
the production of hcfcs is already prohibited and the use will be prohibited by 2020. the preamble to the new regulation states that the production and use of ozone depleting substances shall be stopped or minimised as far as possible.
the committee on the environment has adopted 64 amendments.
firstly, the legal basis of the regulation has been changed in the field of the environment.
this gives member states the opportunity to take further environmental protection measures.
seventh, reuse and recycling of ozone depleting substances for existing appliances can only take place within the same company.
the eu is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
ninthly, the control and enforcement system has been strengthened to prevent leakage of ozone depleting substances.
however, more is needed to address the problem of stored ozone depleting substances.
i would like to stress once again the need to develop the directive on construction and demolition waste, as we agreed seven years ago in the sixth environmental action programme.
the ozone layer will have a better chance of recovery, so that harmful effects, such as skin cancer and damage to plants and trees, will be reduced.
- the madam president, i regret that there are not more people in the house today, because we are discussing a really very successful protocol which has had very positive effects both on the environment and health and on the recovery of the ozone layer, which has returned to pre-1980 levels.
i would also like to mention that in copenhagen at the end of this year i believe we will have an agreement to combat climate change that is at least as ambitious and successful as the montreal protocol.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the eu.
i also greatly appreciated the support of the officials of the european commission and the officials of the environment committee and of my own staff.
fortunately, the council also shared this view and at the last minute we were able to put this right in the committee on the environment.
of course, this can only happen if everyone is involved and we ensure that we have a good living environment, here as well as in developing countries.
the agreement reached at the eu summit last week is too meager to make a new sustainable economy work.
the economic crisis, the climate crisis and the energy crisis call for a new approach, and that approach calls for necessary investment.
we had hoped for an agreement on the financing of the bali and poznan climate agreements.
it is worrying that this agreement, after exhaustive negotiations by the environment and finance ministers, has not been reached at the eu summit.
the delay in financing climate plans for developing countries is a serious undermining of climate agreements.
it is therefore striking that in the council conclusions the chapter on the economic crisis and the chapter on energy and sustainability are simply treated as two totally different themes, whereas now is the time to link the two together.
for example, the joint approach to climate change and the financial and economic crisis.
the commissioner has put a lot of energy into this himself, but i also know that the presidency believes that the european union should not leave this region to china or russia alone.
next i hope we can deal with licensing – how to make a more transparent and more sustainable system and create a set of principles for our licensing policies.
it is in our interest to promote principles such as self-regulation, transparency and sustainability, and we can make several other important contributions to improvements in licensing.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the sea by ships.
however, on various beaches in south asia, huge discarded seagoing vessels are still being scrapped under conditions that are not only unfriendly to the environment but also to people.
in bangladesh, for example, none of the 36 sites for demolition meets the minimum environmental and safety standards.
in addition, the bangladesh minister for the environment must adopt rules on the recycling of scrap vessels in accordance with the basel convention within three months.
the resolution by the committee on the environment should send a clear message to the council and the commission for the negotiations to be conducted with the aim of achieving the best possible result.
firstly, it should be clear that discarded ships containing dangerous substances should be considered as hazardous waste and thus be covered by the basel convention.
it is not in the interests of environmental protection to continue debating the definitions.
i am glad to see that there is a great deal of agreement on this subject in the committee on the environment and in the committee on transport.
i hope that the council and the commission will make the same concerted effort to conclude a good treaty in hong kong in two months' time, with the interests of safety, the environment and public health properly safeguarded.
joint efforts to improve the global economic climate therefore deserve priority.
we depend on that neighbour for our energy supply and they depend on our financial resources.
whether it's in the area of trade, energy cooperation, climate, or nuclear non-proliferation, solutions can only be found together.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
it's all in article 54. as for the churches: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
but the european environmental label has been in decline for years.
a widely used and recognisable quality label can be an incentive for manufacturers to improve their products and use less material and energy and recycle much more.
the food and food industry are a major burden on the environment and the eco-label can at least provide a solution to this.
i also agree with what was said by mr mcavan and mr wijkman at the beginning of this debate: it is important to build incentives for environmentally friendly production for energy efficiency right now and this legislation will help to do that.
the arguments in favour of road safety, the environment and a reduction in administrative burdens are not in this case relevant.
i refuse to support a proposal which is bad for the environment, which is bad for the transport sector and which also seriously undermines the functioning of the european internal market.
protectionism in times of crisis is the worst thing for europe, because as commissioner tajani says: it's a waste of money and it's bad for the environment.
the proposal is not correct in substance and is not sustainable.
challenges in the field of european climate objectives, congestion reduction, road safety and user-friendliness, and opportunities in the field of sustainable economic development and, closely related to this, the growth of inland navigation.
sustainable economic development in europe, including in transport and urban areas, will not be possible to a large extent without the use of inland waterways.
many european cities have inland waterways and therefore the capacity to meet growing transport demand in a sustainable way.
the growth of inland waterway transport does not require major infrastructure investments, does not contribute to congestion in european cities and does not lead to an increase in environmental and climate problems in european cities, provided that inland waterway transport has clean engines and clean fuel.
i do not understand why the other institutions are opposed to amendment no 24. we have a fund with a lot of money for sustainable transport.
nor will it affect europe's environmental objectives and our commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. the european commission's proposal aims to create a competitive rail freight network in the european union.
it is time to finally work together on a genuine single market for rail transport and thus invest in a green, sustainable future.
in principle, the committee on the environment has asked the committee on legal affairs for an opinion, but this was only based on the original commission proposal.
i would ask that the report be referred back to the committee on the environment.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner.
it's good for the environment and good for the economy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
innovation must be carried out in several directions: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
it is not just energy-consuming products that are concerned, but also energy-related products, and i fully agree with the rapporteur: it should be all products.
unfortunately, there is still some uncertainty about the energy efficiency of led lamps, because it remains somewhat less favourable than the manufacturers did.
another sad example of the ecodesign directive is energy labelling.
now, it's not entirely clear what that means, and that's not a good example of ecological design.
does it save energy?
does it minimize waste and use of natural resources?
and most importantly: can the operation be extended to non-energy-related products and to all products?
we have therefore, as a group, advocated the inclusion of provisions which benefit both the safety and health of workers and users and the environment.
the environment and the internal market are being dragged into this with the hair to show that we should vote in favour of the proposal for rejection, whereas the very comprehensive impact assessment of the commission shows that the proposal is actually good for the functioning of the internal market, the transport sector and the environment.
i too am in favour of greater energy security and i think that everything we do in this respect is useful.
and now we are here to talk about an economic stimulus package, which is indeed a welcome addition to the national efforts in this area, and which in the energy field and for broadband is also hopefully an incentive for projects in the north of my country.
the only way to solve it is with results, with social policy, investing in economic recovery, taking care of clean energy for our climate, protecting social rights, here and in the rest of the world, but with all that respect for each member state, for its own solutions that work.
the compromise reached fortunately provides solutions which are good for the environment but also provide a boost to the aviation sector, which has been hit hard by the economic crisis.
it is wrong to seek cooperation with this regime on the basis that the current group will remain in power for a long time, or that support for stability in this country is beneficial to europe's energy supply.
that is why it is so important to build on a sustainable economy and to prevent climate change.
i hope very much that your efforts in these areas will help to bring the member states closer together and that in the run-up to the copenhagen conference you will also be able to persuade the major players on a global scale to make a real contribution to a solution to climate change.
the social market economy, mr president, also means that sustainable public finances are important, because public deficits are a burden for future generations.
not with your economic recovery plan, which allowed the car industry to be subject to strict environmental conditions after state aid, nor with a proposal for better financial supervision.
the eu was already leading the global response to the climate crisis, but you are fast losing that.
you're threatening to buy most of our carbon reduction from developing countries instead of reducing your own emissions.
you can blame national governments for that, but not for that appallingly meager climate aid proposal to developing countries last week: two billion.
we have a credit crisis, we have an economic crisis, we have a climate crisis, three times the test of real leadership.
i have dealt with financial regulation, but also climate change, the preparation of a successful copenhagen summit, the fight against protectionism in the interests of employment are of course very important.
it cannot be only the public authorities - national governments, europe or international bodies - who deal with energy.
for example, the taboo on considering nuclear energy as part of the energy mix.
nuclear energy, fusion and fission are vital.
there are major problems with waste, but we must ensure that we include research and development and the exchange of knowledge.
nuclear energy has a major role to play in countering the greenhouse effect.
we too must continue the debate, but we must not make nuclear energy a taboo in this house.
diversification is very important and i agree with my colleague hans van baalen who says that we must look at all forms of energy, including nuclear energy.
but as i learned in elementary school, the sun is the source of all energy, and i think that's what we should focus on in the future.
when it comes to diversification, we are not just talking about the types of energy, but also about the suppliers.
secondly, how can we guarantee that energy security?
we can only guarantee this if we can also reach them through the networks, and i think that your main task in the coming years - you have now taken a number of bumps, nabucco, desertec - will be to create an integrated network in which the countries, all the european member states, have their noses in the same direction and also want to implement an integrated energy policy.
the same is true of the world meteorological organization or the un convention on climate change.
− the
mr president, after ten years of talking, we are now close to the copenhagen climate conference.
all countries will have to come up with funding so that developing countries can also participate in a climate agreement, because solidarity with the poorest of the poor must be firmly anchored in a climate agreement.
while we are among the world's leaders in our emissions standards, compared to the united states, private investment in technological innovation and sustainability lags far behind.
president, the climate summit must succeed and that is why europe must speak with one voice and play a leading role in the negotiations.
the people of these countries are not contributing much to climate change, but they are paying the price.
our industrialized countries have contributed greatly to climate change.
we therefore have a responsibility to provide adequate and sustainable financial and technical support to developing countries.
that is why we say that the climate fund must be replenished with at least 15 billion euros a year, plus a contribution from the other major economies in the world.
forests and tropical rainforests offset a significant proportion of co2 emissions.
land-use change, such as deforestation and rainforest degradation, are responsible for at least 18% of today's co2 emissions.
these are images that we've all seen, and in the face of these and other impacts of climate change, one thing must come to the fore: the polluter pays.
climate change is costing developing countries more than 100 billion euros a year in the future.
that's not development money, it's just creating the conditions for development, because maybe an island in the pacific is not going to sink because of climate policy, or because desertification is being stopped, so that people can continue to live and work where they want.
of course, there are climate measures that can also boost the development of poor countries.
but at the moment, climate policy is being funded mainly by development funds, and that is unacceptable.
fourthly, you can add that the poor countries themselves have to pay for the climate damage they did not cause.
development policy will now also have to be aligned with climate policy.
the first priority must be to give the developing countries themselves a voice in the transparent spending of a climate fund.
mr president, in the end there is only one solution to the climate problem, and that is technology.
climate is a global problem, but using the best available technology together is not one of them.
the montreal protocol created a fund for this purpose and there are ideas for a multilateral climate technology fund.
- we are talking about climate change, but we should be talking about the people who are most affected by climate change, and those are the least developed countries.
the commission has always assumed that market players will make a significant contribution to climate adaptation.
these are volatile markets, and climate adaptation spending is on small projects.
all types of crises have already been mentioned, but one has been forgotten next to global warming, which is the crisis of public confidence in politics.
when it comes to climate change emissions targets, europe is leading the way compared to the united states.
however, the united states leads the way in terms of private investment in technological innovation and sustainability, which is hugely important for small and medium-sized enterprises and for employment.
we have more flexibility, we can make our budgets available sooner, and we can also invest more in energy-efficient buildings and housing, for example.
of course, sustainable policies are excellent, but the adoption of such a proposal in its entirety would raise a lot of expectations in the regions and among colleagues too, which are not going to be fulfilled.
we have indicated in the regulations for the structural funds exactly what can be done in terms of innovation, sustainable policy and ecology, and therefore it is good to use that as an example only and not to say that we are going to amend the regulation to that effect.
sustainability is a source of technological development.
the commission, the council, look for the weak spots of the ayatollahs, first of all for a more tolerable living environment for the iranian people, for the security of the jewish state of israel, not to forget the arab world, and also the european union.
foreign policy is a primary task of the member states and if europeanization is to take place, i would prefer to see the climate in the council rather than in the commission.
at the moment, all energy must be directed towards restoring democracy.
billions are being spent on left-wing hobbies such as climate change and development aid, while in the netherlands people are not being treated in care homes, the aow is being raised to 67 years and the police must cut back.
we are faced with the important challenge of securing an ambitious agreement on climate change in copenhagen.
equal ambitions are important to effectively tackle climate change and to create a global level playing field.
at the same time, it is very important that agreements are made to ensure that these funds will actually and effectively contribute to the reduction of climate change, as well as agreements on technology transfer and protection of intellectual property rights.
the climate convention can be an important catalyst for this, also for us in europe, so that our social market economy is increasingly transformed into a sustainable social market economy.
a crucial moment to reach an ambitious climate agreement.
the european union rightly says that an agreement must be reached in copenhagen, our climate cannot be delayed.
to meet the two-degree target, the target that the european union has said for years it wants to meet, rich countries need to reduce their emissions by 40 percent.
our climate calls for it.
she bought a bunch of flowers from a greenhouse, wrapped in plastic.
how can we, after such a fine day of luxury, insist that an indigenous woman who was driven from her land by deforestation for our luxury, must reduce co2 emissions, when her list only contained: "i'm alive" is what?
industrialized countries are responsible for high co2 emissions, and they will have to pay for them and support developing countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i would like to stress once again the importance of a sustainable constitutional framework, which is necessary to make the country and its institutions function more effectively.
and then it is not just a question of legality, but also of efficiency, because with regard to agricultural funds we are achieving the objectives in the field of nature and the environment to a much lesser extent.
what is your view of the formation of a so-called green group within the wto of countries which want to get rid of trade tariffs on sustainable products in order to promote the use of these products?
i would also like to point out, in the spirit of copenhagen this week, that we are in dire need of energy supplies and energy measures in buildings and in transport.
it needs to be more sustainable and it needs to be more inclusive.
we need to take steps now to tackle the crisis that will bring us closer to that sustainable economy.
if we ensure that people who are losing their jobs in polluting industries such as the car industry are not stuck in the past but are being retrained for jobs in sustainable sectors for the future, then we are clearly showing the direction we want to go.
and that's how we bring that innovative, inclusive and sustainable economy a little bit closer.
the struggling economy and investment in sustainability are rightly high on the agenda.
this includes support for projects involving renewable energy sources and improvements in energy network links with third countries.
to this end, we are contributing to the much-needed diversification of energy suppliers.
it is good that more money is going to energy and research and also to the dismantling of the bulgarian nuclear power station at kozloduy, but my problem is with the main lines of the european budget.
the current budget is still investing too much in yesterday's economy, too much old support for agriculture, too much old support for regions and far too little in sustainability and innovation, which is what it's really about.
i believe, moreover, that we must do much more to stop the loss of biodiversity in the world.
mr president, the expectations for europe 2020 are high in our group, but also in the european citizen who expects prosperity and jobs and a sustainable and innovative social market economy in 2020. concrete proposals for a strong sme and an open european internal market, including in the area of capital and knowledge development.
i would like to see part of the european information budget used to ensure that citizens are given real and complete information and answers to their questions, both through digital information media and through human contact, such as 'can you tell me exactly how european decision-making on european engagement went at the copenhagen climate summit?'
the states – not the courts, the states – must ensure an environment where all citizens can live freely, according to their own conscience.
the european union is not a party to the copenhagen climate change agreement, but it is not a party to the agreement.
look at the energy transition, the climate change, the lisbon strategy, essential elements in regions and cities.