but i wanted to stress - and i know we are debating this in two days' time - that this case shows firstly that russia treats purely economic matters as an absolutely political instrument and secondly that this case shows that we really need to have a common energy policy as the european union, and not the energy policy of the individual largest countries, which are building gas pipelines under the baltic sea, for example, on their own.
the european parliament has repeatedly addressed environmental issues.
the problem of waste disposal has been particularly acute recently.
the current situation in poland in this respect can be summarised as follows: those who buy waste paper argue that it is too cheap and not worth dealing with, and those who produce paper using waste paper argue that it is too expensive for them and at current paper prices they cannot afford to invest in waste paper processing equipment.
so i'm calling for pro-environmental action to solve this problem.
because today, kids collect waste because it's educational, and then they dump it in the communal landfill.
pesticides are dangerous to animals and the environment.
i would like to remind you that in many countries old pesticides are stored in conditions that are dangerous for the environment and for people.
sustainable use of pesticides is an important issue.
the way pesticides are placed on the market, the scientific work carried out in this area and any activities that allow pesticides to be more effective with less impact on health and the environment are also important.
in the debate on the reports on the sustainable use of pesticides and the marketing of plant protection products, i would like to draw attention to three points.
it is clear that urban transport is of great importance for both economic development and environmental protection.
these two areas should be synergistically integrated to achieve the effect of increasing street capacity, improving travel comfort and traffic conditions, reducing travel time and energy consumption, reducing emissions, reducing the costs of road fleet management and maintenance and renewal, and ultimately improving road safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by ms grabowska on the prospects for developing civil dialogue under the lisbon treaty is a waste of time and resources.
it is also good that the report stresses the need for a common energy policy.
i would like to conclude by making a comment on mr holm's remarks, which i had just forgotten, on the question of whether the commission is forcing member states to abolish progressive environmental or health regulations because they are contrary to the internal market.
national rules which depart from the rules of the internal market, if they consider it necessary for health or environmental reasons.
we take seriously the health and environmental arguments of the member states when they adopt rules which differ on these grounds and we do not force them to reverse more environmental or health protection.
energy issues, energy security, climate change, the role of the european union in this process: it must be clear to everyone that if the leadership of the european union on climate change, whatever i may think of it personally, is not joined by economies and big players like the united states of america, the russian federation, brazil, india, china, then this step of the european union is abandoned, isolated and globally worthless.
our role is to convince the other world powers and the biggest emitters to follow us, and that's where i see our role during the first half of the year, because i consider the climate and energy package to be a closed case at this point, and we're waiting for implementation after approval, of course, in the european parliament, i hope.
the whole question of the energy mix is sometimes too ideologised, too politicised, and i think the european union must take a very practical and pragmatic approach to this and see short, medium and long-term objectives and short, medium and long-term means to achieve those objectives.
we need to talk about this, invest in innovation and of course gradually adjust the energy mix to what we're talking about here, which is moving towards more environmental protection, less dependence on fossil fuels, of course, a secure and relatively cheap energy supply so that europe remains competitive and is able to compete on a global scale.
from what i have noted from the speeches of the representatives of the various political groups, i do not think that our agenda is too liberal or too conservative, our agenda is based on long-term goals and the long-term agenda of the european union and the czech contribution to it, the czech footprint, has been proven correct in the first days of the new year, because our emphasis on energy security, without us knowing it, perhaps five minutes after twelve, leads to a very consistent, thorough discussion on how to ensure the independence and freedom of the european union, which is given less independence or dependence on energy and resources imports from outside the european union.
the energy policy of the european union is that criterion.
we are now at the end of another chapter in the energy dispute between russia and europe, but we still have no systemic guarantee, no policy framework that would allow us to avoid similar problems in the future.
after the energy crises of 2004, 2006 and 2008, it is high time that the union started to act actively not only in favour of diversifying transport routes.
we also urgently need to diversify our own sources of energy.
i therefore expect the czech presidency to take steps to provide financial support for the nabucco gas pipeline and to pursue an active energy policy in central asia.
you have inaugurated your presidency in a hot political temperature and the freezing wind of the energy crisis.
two of the three main priorities of the czech presidency – energy and the eastern partnership – need gas.
then you have to find a lasting, sustainable and systemic solution for the longer term.
i would like to draw attention to what i believe is the key issue for this six-month period: the third energy package.
this package is about, firstly, the common energy market, the common european agency for the cooperation of national regulators, cross-border interconnections and joint investments, and so it is about integration, in other words energy solidarity, energy security.
secondly, the third energy package is also liberalisation, fair rules for access to the grid, i.e.
market competitiveness, and this always means lower costs and environmental damage and cheaper energy for consumers, and therefore cheaper energy for the economy, which can help overcome the crisis.
in each of the three main priorities of your presidency - energy, the economy, the eastern european dimension - a third package could be useful.
the czech presidency decided to focus on the most important current issues: the conflict in gaza and energy security, among others.
the financial, energy and economic crisis is more acute than at any time in its 50-year history.
this is why the union has no common foreign policy, no effective decision-making system and no energy solidarity.
and much of this is due to president vaclav klaus, whose views on climate change, eu reform and the euro are if not hostile, certainly bizarre.
the czech priorities in the form of three e's: economy, energy and external relations describe european needs well.
the three e's: economy, energy, europe in the world, which are to form the backbone of the community's presidency, are experiencing additional, unplanned external actions: gas and gas.
this is a major problem for many people in countries where the energy supply is limited in the middle of a freezing winter.
we must also look for new sources of energy and return to modern methods of gasification.
you will probably agree with me that the czech presidency displayed remarkable foresight when it placed security of energy supply as one of the cornerstones or priorities of our presidency this year.
on 2 january 2009, as it became clear that deliveries to the eu were beginning to be affected, a formal declaration by the czech presidency on behalf of the eu was issued and early in the morning on the same day in prague, we received a ukrainian delegation led by the minister of energy, yuriy prodan.
again, we were planning to discuss energy security in advance, but, of course, we had to react promptly and thus adopted a strong declaration by the presidency on behalf of the eu, which was approved by all.
on monday 12 january we, the czech presidency, convened a special council of energy ministers in order to press for further transparency on transit-related issues, identify short-term mitigating measures to be taken until supplies are fully restored and identify medium- to long-term measures that are needed to prevent the consequences of such major disruption in future.
furthermore, in these conclusions, council agreed to urgently develop the strengthened medium- and long-term measures relating inter alia to transparency regarding the physical flow of gas, demand and storage volumes, regional or bilateral solidarity arrangements, to address the issue of missing energy infrastructure interconnections (which is a huge problem), to continue to diversify the transport route and sources, and to address the financing aspects of this, also by speeding up the revision of the security of gas supply directive.
the energy council, the tte, will revisit the issue at its scheduled 19 february meeting through the conclusions it will adopt on the commission’s communication on the second strategic energy review.
energy security is one of the top presidency priorities.
the presidency has taken the lead in chairing the discussion on possible solutions for our energy dependency trap: be it the informal council, as i mentioned, or the tte-energy session.
of the issues mentioned in the energy council conclusions, i would like to mention the following.
firstly, the member states agree that the creation of a functional and efficient solidarity mechanism is one of the cornerstones of future eu energy security.
secondly, solidarity presupposes interconnections of european energy networks, as well as improvements in energy infrastructure.
eu energy security is not feasible unless internal energy security market is completed and functional.
therefore the presidency is looking forward to close cooperation with the european parliament to compromise on the third energy package at second reading.
finally, in order to boost energy security the eu should strengthen the transparency mechanism and so on.
to give you an idea, gas from storage was used and sold to neighbouring countries and even to members of the energy community, alternative fuels were used for electricity production, gas production was increased – including from algerian, norwegian and other russian sources – extra deliveries of gas were made to neighbouring countries.
− mr president, we are currently living through one of the most severe energy crises in european history, comparable with the oil crises that we had in the 1970s and 1980s.
but it is very clear that both parties have lost their reputation as reliable energy partners of the european union.
but i believe that we have provided answers for security of supply in the second strategic energy review, in the work parliament and the council have done on the energy and climate change package.
three years ago, when we witnessed the first gas crisis following russia’s cutting of energy supplies, europe realised its vulnerability and its limitations.
already then it became obvious that we need a common eu foreign policy on energy.
it was our group which took the lead by asking for an own-initiative report towards a common european foreign policy on energy, which i had the honour to present to this house in september 2007 and which was unanimously supported by all the political groups and adopted almost unanimously.
it called for a comprehensive strategy with a precise road map towards a common eu external policy on energy, recommending a number of actions to be taken: in the short term, solidarity mechanisms, unity in defending our interests, more efficient energy diplomacy; and, in the medium term, diversification including nabucco, storage, investments and interconnections.
some of our recommendations have been addressed – albeit belatedly – in the commission’s second strategic energy review.
however, this is not enough if we are to avoid similar situations in the future, and this will only be possible if we equip ourselves with a truly common eu energy security policy and solidarity, which would offer lasting, sustainable and systemic solutions.
our group would expect the presidency and the commission to undertake swift and radical actions and measures vis-à-vis our energy partners, russia and ukraine, to restore gas supplies.
in july last year, the european parliament adopted a report by the committee on petitions, which i had drawn up, in which we made it clear that the question of energy and gas supplies to europe is not a matter of bilateral relations.
the current situation also demonstrates the european union's faulty energy policy.
the union has been successful in combating global warming.
the european union's energy policy is beginning to resemble that of the doctor in the novel by haška "the adventures of the good soldier swejka".
and the european union is limited to verbal declarations, conferences, and above all to making concessions to russia, which has caused russia to dare to use energy resources as a tool of political pressure.
the current gas crisis is a final confirmation that europe must take care of its energy security itself.
i call on the european commission, commissioner, to present legislative initiatives without delay which will allow the necessary diversification of energy sources, ensure energy solidarity real and not pretend and lead to the interconnection of the national gas transmission systems of the individual member states.
it's not only better than a pipeline across the baltic to germany bypassing poland, but it strengthens our energy security.
i believe that this is the direction in which work should be directed towards ensuring energy security for all eu member states.
i am referring to energy security, eu solidarity, a common energy policy and the diversification of sources and modes of supply of gas and other energy sources.
the need to agree on a practical community policy of solidarity, security and diversification in the energy sector is essential.
energy solidarity requires the creation of cross-border interconnectors linking the transmission networks of individual countries.
the european union, in its fundamental blindness, still wants to rely on imported gas and oil for its energy.
i do not know whether this is political stupidity or a matter of maintaining energy influence over certain countries of the community.
a second joint experts’ meeting on water, energy and transport, where concrete projects could be developed that might be presented to a possible donor conference, is foreseen for the near future.
we need the support of the entire international community, including the new us administration, but also key players in the islamic world, for a sustainable, political solution in somalia and to finally end the unspeakable suffering of the population.
we will also continue to monitor the general situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country, with a special emphasis on the regulatory environment of ngos and the media.
the commission has been working on proposals for such a package, which could include the following: an extension of the technical dialogues which began a year ago, on energy, transport and environment to other areas; a symbolic increase in the enpi allocation for belarus to back these talks; helping belarus to adjust to the new economic challenges it is currently facing and extending eligibility for eib and ebrd loans to belarus; intensifying contacts: on 26 january the troika will meet with foreign minister martynov on the margins of the gaerc, where i intend to say clearly to mr martynov what exactly the eu expects from belarus and what we have on offer; and, naturally, intensification of civil society dialogue.
at the same time, we call on the european commission and the council to reduce visa fees for entry into the european union more quickly and to increase the european investment bank's investment in energy infrastructure, especially transit infrastructure, in the country.
this gives cautious hope of improving the climate in mutual relations and of implementing the commissioner's proposal.
on the nuclear power plant and the questions about security and safety, let me tell you that, in our technical dialogue on energy with belarus, we pay special attention also to ensuring that this country respects international safety and security standards.
i'm all for taking care of the environment, doing things to protect nature, but when it comes to human life, you can't just go around taking it for granted.
the energy crisis has exposed the weaknesses of the european union.
the commission's proposal to increase the supply of russian energy resources by building the nord-süd gas pipeline is a clear illustration of this error.
this crisis shows that we should put everything into building an independent infrastructure that will lead us to independent sources of energy resources in azerbaijan and turkmenistan.
solving the energy problem will be the critical moment of the whole integration.
let me make a few points on the strategic energy review and the last energy crisis problem, which are closely linked.
my first point: in our report, which calls on the member states to speak with a single european voice on energy issues, we have explicitly stated what all europeans have seen in the past weeks to be the reality, namely that damaging energy supply in the member states afflicts the european union as a whole.
my second point is that the report mentions ccs technology as having the potential to meet our environmental targets while exploiting a source of energy – coal – that is largely available in europe.
my third point is that this strategic document specifically underlines the need for investment in the energy supply infrastructure.
in terms of energy relations, ukraine identifies with international standards.
it has ratified the energy charter treaty and, therefore, plays by transparent rules.
my fourth point is that our strategic document greatly complements our efforts towards implementing the third energy package.
it means a working internal market in energy for the european union; it means solidarity and support on many sides.
firstly, the union has no energy strategy.
this encourages russia, for example, which treats energy resources as a political weapon, to try to exert pressure and blackmail, which makes the union's situation worse.
secondly, the union has been subjected to a collective manipulation of the threat of global warming due to co2 emissions.
thirdly, the union needs an energy strategy based on the weakest link principle, i.e.
fifthly, the union needs fiscal and credit policies to promote new technologies and energy savings, which are lacking.
madam president, mrs laperrouze's report on energy policy touches on a subject of great importance for all the countries of the union.
the overwhelming and disastrous experience of our southern countries in january, together with the forecasts that threaten us with a considerable energy deficit in the next two decades, all this implies that energy policy must be an essential part of our foreign policy.
first, russia is increasingly clearly using the supply of energy resources, mainly gas, to exert a strong political influence.
secondly, a new eu-russia partnership agreement must be negotiated, including energy issues, but with the explicit stipulation that supplies of energy resources will not be used by russia for political influence and that any losses resulting from non-supply will be borne entirely by russian suppliers.
the second strategic energy review does not provide the desired added value.
the citizens and economies of the union need quick and concrete decisions and actions that will secure relatively low and stable energy costs over the next 15 years.
these economic activities will reduce co2 emissions and eliminate the need for bureaucratic emissions trading, which is good for traders but not for the economy.
thirdly, you have presented an impressive package of eur 3.5 billion for energy infrastructure.
the energy crisis of january is slowly becoming an annual ritual.
what the european commission should be doing now is preparing a plan for the diversification of energy sources.
investments should be made in the construction of new transmission networks that would bypass uncertain energy exporters such as the russian federation.
in one of my amendments to the report by mrs anne laperrouze, we emphasize the importance of supporting 'the nabucco pipeline, the only project in existence to diversify energy sources and gas transport routes' without russia's participation.
our trade agreements should be based on a special "energy security clause" which would be the business ethic for this sector.
it is important for europe and the rest of the world that is doing business in a civilized way that the russian federation ratifies the energy charter treaty.
it took the bitter experience of the russian-ukrainian gas war in january 2009 for energy security to become a priority for the european community as a whole.
we cannot hide behind the absence of the treaty of lisbon, which includes provisions on energy solidarity.
the most difficult thing in relations with our eastern neighbours will be to root out the tendency to conclude bilateral agreements, and this is the real measure of success or failure of the community's policy of energy security and solidarity!
finally, it is necessary to facilitate access to foreign markets for this segment by encouraging the development of new, competitive technologies, while ensuring that it operates in compliance with environmental protection principles.
of course, when we talk about the development of air transport, we cannot forget about the environmental problems.
if we are to halt the progressive loss of biodiversity, the protection of europe's wildlands, forests and water bodies is a fundamental issue.
these include the invasion of alien species that compete with native organisms and the effects of climate change.
the common energy policy is one of the european union's most pressing challenges today.
i think that we should have a fair but tough policy towards a trading partner that uses energy as a weapon of political pressure.
it is emphasised that one of the key issues in the field of energy security is the diversification of energy sources.
- 'wildlife' is a term for the natural environment that has not been significantly altered by human activity.
at the same time, these areas are extremely vulnerable to the effects of human-induced environmental change.
the development of sustainable tourism can be used as a way to give wildlife economic value and raise funds for conservation.
in europe, an interesting initiative has been launched to combine programmes for wildlife and sustainable tourism the pan parks foundation, which aims to promote sustainable tourism in these areas.
europe needs technological improvements in many areas: health, sustainable growth, security.
− the report on the second strategic energy review (laperrouze) included a paragraph supporting the southern gas pipeline.
the southern pipeline strengthens russia's position in the supply of energy resources and therefore cannot be considered as a diversification project in this respect.
in the face of this crisis, which is the responsibility of the same political forces that are seeking to radically reduce carbon emissions at the expense of human civilization, without scientific basis, those who are seeking to create a world government composed of the same groups that will make huge money on emissions trading, while being able to deceive people with small threats of climate change, should be blamed.
we need to create the foundation for energy development.
the european union is a major player in the world economy, with a large share of its energy coming from renewable sources.
the main objective of climate policy, as well as the energy and climate package with its drastic reduction of greenhouse gases, is to control and transform the national character of economies towards the centrally controlled economy we have known in the past.
the abstract concept of human influence on climate is to be carried out by limiting development opportunities, including the use of fossil fuels, introducing dangerous ccs technologies, which will make it difficult for poland to use natural resources, including rich sources of geothermal energy.
after the liquidation of polish industry as part of the adjustment to the european union, the attempt is not only to force poles to emigrate, but to impoverish the rest by imposing the highest energy prices of all the countries of the european union.
i would like to return to the climate package we adopted in december and stress that the european union does have a very balanced package that does not threaten the economy.
i would therefore like to congratulate the commission, and i congratulate commissioner dimas, on the decision to allocate eur 3.5 billion of the unused funds to investments and research in energy technologies, which also serve to protect the climate.
it will be a long time before politicians realize that it is not coal burning but solar activity that is causing climate change.
it will take even longer to convince societies that this is the case, as they are being fooled by the environmental propaganda.
since the earth's climate is dependent on events in space, it must be admitted that man's attempts to influence the climate are doomed to failure.
there have been many periods of warming and increased carbon dioxide in the air, but the warming has always occurred several centuries before the increase in carbon dioxide.
during the ice ages, the air was cooler, but still had up to a dozen times more carbon dioxide than it does today.
if you don't know what it is, it's about money, it's about emissions trading.
in the preamble to this report, mr florenz refers to his earlier report on the scientific facts on climate change, in which i unfortunately found no facts other than a belief in the infallibility of the ipcc reports.
only a coherent climate change model that takes into account all the variables, i.e.
the impact of greenhouse gases, suspended particles and, above all, solar activity, would explain the usefulness of these decisions.
co2 emissions, overlooking the need for international action to combat the actual effects of climate change.
the interim commission on climate change has focused unilaterally on the problem of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and marginally on combating the real effects of climate change.
in taking part in the debate on climate policy for 2050, i would like to draw attention to the following points.
if the united states and the countries of south-east asia do not join the co2 reduction programme with the same commitment as the european union, the enormous financial effort and the inevitable economic slowdown of the european union will prove to be a very high price for the negligible reduction of co2 emissions.
the european union accounts for only 14% of global emissions, while the us and south east asian countries account for nearly 80% of these emissions.
2.committing individual member states to a 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020, while also having to buy emission allowances, will mean significant increases in electricity and heat prices for households, and even higher energy price increases for industry, especially in new member states such as poland, where the energy sector is based on coal.
this could result in the elimination of many energy-intensive industries in these countries, with all the negative social consequences that this would entail.
3.the achievements in reducing co2 emissions in the new member states should be noted, in particular in poland, where a major restructuring of the economy between 1990 and 2005 resulted in a co2 reduction of around 30%, with huge social costs and unemployment of over 20% for many years of that period.
he confuses the obvious need for rational environmental protection with the totally false notion that man can influence cyclical climate change.
this part, the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, is the most important part of the document.
the enormous sums of money, estimated at hundreds of billions, spent on this purpose will be completely wasted, and could be used to build a real ecological and energy security of the european union.
in this situation, energy saving work and the deployment of clean energy sources that already produce energy at stable and relatively low prices can counteract this.
the use of scientific research and its technical application will automatically reduce co2 emissions.
on the other hand, the promotion of controversial theories and the fear of co2 adds no added value and hinders the technical and material process that guarantees the reduction of co2 and hydrocarbons used for energy purposes.
- climate change has been the subject of 13 european parliament resolutions in different legislative periods.
the report by karl-heinz florenz does not improve the situation of those who are not convinced that human activities are the decisive factor in climate change, which has been governed by the laws of nature alone for millions of years.
given that the report does not refer to the specific situation of the new member states, let alone acknowledge their efforts to reduce pollution and greenhouse gas emissions since 1989, there can be no question of an integrated approach.
countries must have the right to choose their energy technology.
in the context of the recommendation to the commission to set a binding target of 20% increase in energy efficiency, there seems to be a reasonable suspicion of a disguised promotion of expensive foreign technologies for this purpose.
- i voted in favour of the florence report entitled 2050: the future starts today - a recommendation for the eu's future integrated climate policy.
the report was prepared by the interim commission on climate change, which was set up in june 2007. the report is a list of recommendations for reducing carbon emissions that should be implemented by the community institutions (mainly the european commission) and the member states.
climate change is rapid and has serious negative effects.
the eu and the group of industrialised countries should adopt a target of reducing greenhouse gases by 25% to 40% by 2020 and, in the longer term, aim to reduce emissions by 80% by 2050 compared to 1999. other recommendations included in the report include partnership with third countries in the mediterranean on solar energy production, achieving net zero energy consumption in new residential buildings by 2015 and in new buildings by 2020, with the possibility of extending this target in the longer term to include renovated buildings.
it also includes the creation of a european renewable energy community to support research and development into breakthrough technologies.
- i supported a resolution on improving energy efficiency through the use of information and communication technologies.
itcs should become the future solution in virtually all energy-using appliances, enabling huge savings in energy consumption.
failure to do so could lead to a significant increase in energy demand in the coming years (around 25% in 4 years).
the efficiency of the generation of this energy should be improved by about 40% and its distribution by about 10%.
itcs will contribute both to better management of the energy grid and to facilitate the integration of renewable energy sources.
all of this will contribute to a significant reduction in co2 emissions both per unit of energy and on a global scale.
taking into account that energy efficiency improvements are reductions in energy consumption in the generation, transmission, distribution and final consumption phases of energy, due to technological changes, behavioural changes and economic changes, providing the same level of comfort and services, modern itcs should be used as widely as possible.
− the issue of the european union's energy security has been raised on many occasions in the european parliament, especially by the representatives of the new member states.
the assistance mechanism should also result in the use of support for targeted investments in technological innovation, in line with road safety and environmental performance guidelines.
is it not time to reverse these trends and return to sustainable agriculture, where the farmer has his own feed without being exposed to losses caused by dioxins or bse?
most of these farms can implement a sustainable farming model for the benefit of farmers, the environment and all of us.
this is particularly true in today's formal and legal environment.
it is very important that trade relations between european countries and china are primarily based on the principles of reciprocity, sustainable development, respect for environmental boundaries and fair competition.
the high level of pollution produced by chinese industry and the associated increased consumption of natural resources is also a cause for concern.
when we talk about the tragedy of the poor, we forget that it is also caused by people, not the poor, who come from the same environment.
on horizontal issues let me just enumerate the most important ones we touched on: first, upholding human rights and promoting peace and security in europe's neighbourhood and at global level; second, support for effective multilateralism and respect for international law; third, the fight against terrorism; fourth, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and disarmament; fifth, climate change, energy security and issues like cyber security.
energy, raw materials, piracy, cyber security are all things that need to be addressed.
it is therefore necessary to develop a common foreign policy, including a security policy, including energy policy, and therefore a common policy towards russia.
furthermore, the ess report recognises that without development and poverty eradication there will be no sustainable peace.
examples of such threats include organised crime, cyber terrorism, piracy (which we are witnessing off the coast of somalia), climate change and the threats posed by the global economic crisis.
more attention should be paid to building bodies and institutions that would enable us to overcome the financial difficulties caused by the global economic crisis and to protect the environment and biodiversity.
the barcelona process: union for the mediterranean, adopted in paris on 13 july 2008, is a contribution to peace and prosperity and can be an important step forward towards economic and territorial integration, as well as cooperation on environmental and climate protection.
so, to get back to the neighborhood, we have to admit, we have to realize that our environment is changing very dynamically.
our common objective, our common interest, should be to integrate energy into the main objectives of the neighbourhood policy, including the commitment of our money to the modernisation of independent transmission networks, particularly in the east and south.
another important objective to be achieved by the eps is energy security.
he clearly pointed out the need to identify actions within the framework of the said policy, to strengthen the energy sector within the eastern partnership.
i think that apart from the big decisions - transport, energy, free trade, common exchange - there are also smaller and smaller things, such as education, scientific and cultural exchange, which are very important, and above all people-to-people contacts.
this is very important, and i think after the recent energy events, no one doubts that this dimension is very, very important to us.
secondly, within the eastern partnership, it is necessary to develop energy cooperation with these countries and create conditions for europe to be supplied with energy resources from these countries as alternative sources of supply for europe.
in this eastern partnership, the idea is that we want to work with our eastern partners – ukraine, moldova, belarus – if necessary on democracy and human rights, but also with the three caucasian countries, on trade, to try to make more profound association agreements, secondly on energy, and thirdly on more mobility.
then of course there are all kinds of different platforms which i have already mentioned – for instance a platform for civil society, on energy and on transport – or indeed where best practices can be exchanged.
the political content is visas, the common market, energy.
this commitment is a precondition for us to be able to cooperate in specific areas, i mean supporting civil society, democratic and institutional reforms, guaranteeing europe's energy security.
− mr president, first and foremost, i wish to express my gratitude to the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and particularly to the rapporteur, ms riera madurell, for supporting our proposal for the community legal framework for a european research infrastructure.
as many speakers mentioned the issue of energy efficiency, i want to repeat what i already said in my introductory remarks: in april we will come forward with a proposal that will be focused on climate change and energy efficiency issues, a review of the energy taxation directive, and the green tax package proposing reduced vat rates for green services that are aimed at increasing energy efficiency.
we see it becoming essential for stable and sustainable economic growth through the enormous role it plays in solving new social problems.
i shall simply refer to the energy security of europe.
to prevent the re-blocking of gas supplies to europe and the temptation of monopolistic exporters, it is necessary first of all to diversify energy sources and transit networks.
- rationalizing energy consumption is a very important activity.
the public should know that this is the most cost-effective way to combat climate change.
but the positive effects will not be limited to the environment.
the better we use energy, the less we need it, and therefore the less dependent we are on importing it.
in the current situation where energy is used as a policy element, this is a fact that cannot be overestimated.
we're using energy more and more rationally.
since 1990, eu output has increased by 40%, per capita income by a third, and energy demand by only 11%.
a more rational energy management therefore contributes to the economic growth of each member state.
energy efficiency and energy saving should play a key role both in reducing the growing demand for energy and in reducing the amount of fuel burned.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions, more green energy, a more energy efficient economy is an opportunity to reduce our dependence on imported gas and oil.
the european economy must become less vulnerable to energy price fluctuations, inflation and the risks associated with the geopolitical location of these resources.
this security has multiple dimensions: political, military, energy, food, etc.
− it is important to me that the barcelona agreement allows for the regulation of a number of strategic regional issues, such as energy security, environmental protection and water management.
the areas of cooperation shall include, inter alia, the promotion of political dialogue and reform, support for environmental protection and action on energy security, poverty reduction, gender equality, employment and social protection, support for cross-border cooperation, health promotion, education, protection of human rights, assistance in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and the promotion of cooperation in the fields of science, education, innovation and culture.
finally, thirdly, it is also necessary to use, to a greater extent than before, the union budgetary resources, as well as bank resources, to ensure a genuine diversification of sources of supply of energy raw materials, in particular the nabukko project.
the next item is the joint debate on: - the report by klaus-heiner lehne on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a council regulation on the statute for a european private company (com ((2008) 0396 - c6-0283/2008 - 2008/0130 ((cns)) (a6-0044/2009) - the report by klaus-heiner lehne on behalf of the committee on legal affairs with recommendations to the commission on cross-border relocation of companies (2008/2196 ((ini)) (a6-0040/2009) - the report by edit herczog on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the small business act (2008/2237 ((ini)) (a6-0074/2009) - the commission's statement on the participation of employees in companies with european status.
the main objective is to counter the current burdensome obligations imposed on smes operating in a multinational environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
the draft legislative resolution on industrial missions shows a strong tendency to limit the important environmental aspects of this directive in attempts to introduce increasingly extensive references to the greenhouse effect.
many of the amendment proposals drastically tighten the emission standards for compounds emitted by combustion plants which are not directly toxic, while other draft amendments liberalize or only slightly tighten the rules on the incineration or co-incineration of waste.
carbon dioxide emissions are not toxic, but emissions of dioxins, furans, hydrochlorides, hydrofluorocarbons, heavy metals and other highly harmful compounds are a real and immediate threat to human health and the environment.
the strict monitoring of both the type of waste burned and the hazardous substances generated by the combustion is an important safety condition for the thermal disposal of waste.
the introduction of loose thresholds requiring appropriate prevention measures in the event of emissions exceeding those thresholds may result in environmental pollution and health risks.
the overall approach proposed shows unequal treatment of different classes of installations, with a particularly restrictive approach to conventional-fuel-fired solar energy installations.
the emphasis should be on integrating them into their new environment and ensuring that they have the opportunity to learn the language of the country in which they are staying, which will increase their chances of assimilating into the new culture.
i supported mr schwab's report on reducing co2 emissions and improving road safety.
it is important that efforts to reduce co2 emissions are not made at the expense of other equally important aspects of car design and do not have a negative impact on road safety.
− the recently adopted energy and climate package requires us to take decisive action to achieve its objectives.
the eu's past action to reduce industrial emissions has been characterised by a lack of coherence and coordination, as well as by a high degree of dispersion.
replacing the numerous directives on industrial emissions with a single, coherent act is certainly a step in the right direction.
the criteria to be met by those products must be clear, in line with the state of the art and with the principles of hygiene and contribute to the protection of the environment, respecting the principles of the proper treatment of animals for slaughter.
they must also be convinced that we want to treat all transport sectors equally, that we are, after all, largely responsible for a sensible, sustainable european transport policy.
investment in infrastructure development should be based on environmental priorities that take into account the objectives of the european union in the fight against climate change.
the costs of environmental protection, noise, congestion and health are all linked to the transformation of europe's fast-developing infrastructure.
it seems appropriate that the 'polluter pays' principle proposed in this document should apply - which, it should be recalled, has been in place for some years in the social business environment.
first, the short-term profit should not obscure the long-term interests involved in developing infrastructure, social services, environmental protection, the search for new, sometimes less profitable, sources of energy, etc.
air pollution, the greenhouse effect, accidents are all highly dependent on vehicle design and transportation.
moreover, it will not contribute to environmental protection.
such aid is inevitable, but it should also take account of a sustainable approach to the competitiveness of european industry.
turkey, regardless of the accession process, is a very promising, important partner for europe in the fields of security and energy.
croatia should also take into account the objectives currently set by the european union in the field of the climate and renewable energy package in its development policy.
these kinds of data are frightening, but they're not making the front pages of the newspapers, they're not making the mainstream media pay attention to them, and they're not making them the subject of debates and controversies, like aids, malaria, global warming.
the fifth world water forum is an event that should become an opportunity to work on public water management systems that are effective, transparent, regulated and sustainable to meet the needs of society.
we proposed measures to enhance cooperation on energy security and, importantly, increase support for economic and also social development to address the imbalances within countries that are so often a destabilising force.
we also recommended setting up a multilateral framework for the eastern partnership with four thematic cooperation platforms: firstly, democracy and governance stability; secondly, economic integration and convergence with eu policies; thirdly, energy security and, fourthly, contacts between people.
energy security, as was said, is a key issue.
it is of key interest to us and to the six countries to be linked by this energy security access.
the community will have greater security, both in terms of energy and political security.
the eastern partnership envisages a significant increase in political cooperation, including new types of association agreements, far-reaching integration with the eu economy, simplified travel within the eu for citizens of the eastern partnership countries (provided security requirements are met), arrangements to improve energy security for all stakeholders, and increased financial assistance.
particular hopes can be placed on the proposed main framework of the partnership, and in particular on the establishment of four policy platforms: democracy, good governance and stability; economic integration and convergence with eu policies; energy security; people-to-people contacts.
it gives them access to new information and allows them to break free from the constraints of their environment.
mr martin in particular, but others too, talked about the need to have our reviews and, again, i agree, particularly in this economic climate, it is absolutely essential that we monitor and review.
i think mr fjellner said that more trade rather than less trade is what we need in this economic climate, and i completely agree with that.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs dagmara roth-behrendt on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cosmetic products (recast) (com (2008) 0049 - c6-0053/2008 - 2008/0035 (cod)) (a6-0484/2008).
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by mrs octavia sârbu on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 98/8/ec concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market, as regards the extension of certain time limits (com ((2008) 0618 - c6-0346/2008 - 2008/0188co ((d)) (a6-0076/2009) and - statement by the commission on the new proposal for a review of biocidal products.
the absence of common rules is dangerous for human health and life and for the environment, especially in a free market.
i would like to point out that the governance profiles covering all the dimensions of the programmes, namely the political, economic, social, institutional, environmental, etc.
the strategy covers a wide range of policy areas, including security, energy and climate change.
the partnership discussed today responds to africa's needs, supports the process of democratization and the protection of human rights, and ensures a stronger mutual commitment to combating climate change and ensuring energy security.
and so, for example, in terms of climate change, although africa is the least contributor to the deterioration of our atmosphere, it is africa that will be most affected by the effects of climate change.
it is therefore necessary to involve african countries in the fight against climate change, in particular by making the widest possible use of the renewable energy resources available to them.
human rights and democracy clauses should be an essential part of the free trade agreement with india, alongside respect for environmental and social standards and agreements.
in this context, it is necessary to establish mechanisms at community level which will effectively stimulate a more balanced and sustainable development.
environmentally sustainable economic development and the reduction of regional disparities are the main objectives of the european union's regional policy.
the transposition of these priorities into operational programmes should enable regions to meet the challenges of globalisation, structural, demographic and climate change and to enhance the harmonious, sustainable and sustainable development of the regions.
european projects are a way of creating new, sustainable jobs and an opportunity for the poorest, most deprived regions of the european union.
cohesion policy should also be an instrument to meet new challenges such as the common energy policy and climate change.
we need to fully and wisely exploit the potential of all european and national policies to ensure that the european union as an economy and a society comes out of the crisis stronger economically, socially and politically, with solid foundations for long-term sustainable development.
it is our common task today to ensure that the potential of cohesion policy – its capacity to deliver sustainable development and jobs – will be used fully and wisely in this new global context.
supporting sustainable competitiveness is the most effective way to achieve cohesion in the european union.
another example could be competitiveness and the need to take into account the constraints coming from a low-carbon economy and climate change regarding infrastructure investment.
we established the objectives relating to climate change, energy efficiency and renewable energy before the major debate exploded on climate change in the european union.
recently added to the policy is the additional 4% to be used in the area of housing for energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy that allows us to put more emphasis on this challenge.
sustainable growth is a tremendously complex task.
environmental protection, education, culture).
the challenges they face in planning, spatial planning, social dialogue, culture and education, and in supporting the creation of new, sustainable, knowledge-based jobs are very difficult.
i therefore support the conclusions of the report which calls for the adoption of the appropriate national institutional, legal and commercial frameworks necessary to promote a more favourable environment for the development of microcredit and the establishment of a harmonised european framework for non-bank microfinance institutions.
while most banks have drastically restricted lending to countries neighbouring the union in relation to their financial programmes, both institutions have been active in promoting investments in transport or environmental protection.
equally important, the six priorities pursued by the european investment bank included actions to ensure sustainable and secure energy competition for the union.
you know that in this context the member states, our shareholders, have asked the european investment bank to substantially increase the volume of its lending in 2009, an increase of some 30% compared with the initial forecasts, and to direct this additional effort mainly in three directions: firstly, loans to banks for small and medium-sized enterprises; secondly, energy and, in particular, the fight against climate change; thirdly, the fight against climate change; and fourthly, the fight against climate change.
as regards the second objective, energy and the fight against climate change, we have also made a special effort here and it is in this context that we must place the financing for the automobile industry because it must be clear: what we are financing in this sector are research, development and production projects for clean cars, that is to say cars which will meet the new european union standards for reducing co2 emissions.
i think that most of the speeches show a high degree of agreement and consensus on the guidelines which the presidents of the two banks have just set out, in these times of crisis but also of opportunity, to encourage, from the use of their resources and their activity, policies which are so necessary in the european union such as energy efficiency, the fight against climate change, support for small and mediumsized enterprises or support for clean technologies in sectors which are at the moment as affected as the automobile.
it is precisely the aim of our policy to ensure that the european car of the future is indeed the most innovative in the sense of being the cleanest, most energy-efficient and also the safest in the world.
think about the funding of our very ambitious climate targets.
the report by mr blokland on the european parliament and council regulation on substances that deplete the ozone layer is an important document for further action to protect the ozone layer.
i would like to stress that the european parliament and the council have already succeeded in eliminating from production and trade gases containing fluorine and chlorine, halons, bromines and methyl which have an impact on ozone depletion and the greenhouse effect.
a good example of what can be done is the work being done in the country where the ozone hole is located, i.e.
in addition to the measures taken in the european union, the country has undertaken work to reduce methane emissions, of which 1m3 has a greenhouse effect of 30m3 of co2 and depletes the ozone layer.
first, the council supported the commission's proposal to allocate eur 5 billion to strategic energy projects and broadband internet.
the agreement reached at the european council reflects the union's determination to use all the tools at its disposal and to do everything possible to prevent the crisis from undermining our long-term objectives, in particular in terms of energy security and the fight against climate change.
that is why i support angela merkel's ambitious proposal for a charter for a sustainable economy.
it has put the brakes on investment in renewable energy.
i would remind you that for the sake of our own energy security, we should first of all be concerned with building a canal that would transport energy resources from the caspian sea region to europe, independent of the kremlin's will.
some of this money is going to major energy projects, including €330 million for my country, poland.
although the summit has also raised the issue of global warming, the crisis we are facing has effectively pushed this extremely expensive pseudo-scientific project to the sidelines.
we have specific, common objectives: the creation of free trade areas, the promotion of mobility of citizens in the partner countries, the improvement of administrative capacity, cooperation in the field of energy security, especially in the long-term supply and transit of energy.
but it is the industry in particular that should respond to the structural problems of production efficiency and capacity utilisation in a way that improves competitiveness and sustainability in the long term.
any financial, tax or scrapping measures must also support and accelerate the necessary technological transformation of the sector, in particular in the field of energy efficiency of engines and emission reductions.
in parallel, the commission is strengthening its technical dialogues with belarus in areas of common interest such as energy, transport, customs, standards and norms, and later the economy.
the 1997 sustainable european model of agriculture is a propaganda fiction.
large animal farms that destroy the environment, while farms that produce cheaper, get symbolic support.
- in the vote on the report by mrs margarete auken on the impact of extensive urbanisation in spain on the individual rights of european citizens, the environment and the application of eu law, based on the petitions received, i voted in favour.
they are implementing an unsustainable development model with serious environmental, social and economic consequences.
these actions have already resulted in the irreversible destruction of biodiversity and environmental integrity in many regions of spain.
i supported this report because i believe that close cooperation between the united states and the european union is essential today in virtually all areas: political, defence, economic, energy, environmental, cultural, scientific and so on.
the report also raises the issue of energy security and the inclusion in the negotiated agreement of the basic provisions of the energy treaty, as well as the transit protocol, irrespective of whether the treaty is legally binding today also binding on russia, but which russia may terminate.
by using energy supplies as a tool of political pressure and applying the principle of 'divide and rule', the kremlin is corrupting europe from country to country, from cyprus to the netherlands.
energy companies from austria, germany and italy are doing bilateral business with the kremlin.
germany is building a gas pipeline under the baltic sea to bypass poland, and russia has already cut off energy supplies to lithuania, the czech republic and other european union countries.
for those who speak of energy, we must clearly state that the eu wishes to strengthen cooperation with russia through the instruments we have – the meetings of the energy dialogue and the permanent partnership council on energy.
there will be a meeting of the permanent partnership council on energy during this presidency.
the objective is to promote trust and transparency in eu-russia energy relations.
we cannot afford another disruption of the energy supply.
or on afghanistan and pakistan, yesterday in the conference in the hague, russia had an important part to play; or on iran, or on the non-proliferation issues, or on the big global issues like climate change, which was also mentioned, or now the financial and economic crisis.
it has underlined the importance of energy provisions in the coming eu-russia and eu-ukraine agreements, and they will be there.
we must step up the work to create an internal energy market, but also increase efficiency and diversify supplies.
we know that russia is a very important energy partner for us, contributing 40% of the gas we import and 20% of the gas we consume.
we should do everything possible to make economic cooperation, security, energy security, respect for human rights and democracy a constructive and positive element in our relations.
it's also one of the major energy suppliers, an important trading partner.
we should call on russia to respect the rights of national minorities and to enforce the international treaties it has signed (the united nations charter, the european convention on human rights and the energy charter treaty), while not forgetting the importance of its partnership for the european union and for europe as a whole.
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation by iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund as regards certain provisions on financial management (17575/2008 - c6-0027/2009 - 2008/0233 (avc)) (a6-0127/2009), the report by karin jöns, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1081/2006 on the european social fund to extend the types of costs eligible for funding from the regional fund (c013/08 - c06-045/2008 - c02-045/2008 - c02-0236/2008 - c02-0236/2008 - c02-038/2008 - c02-034/08) and the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1080/2008 on the european parliament and council as regards the mixed energy efficiency and energy efficiency of buildings (com (2008) 0246 final) and commission report to the european parliament and the council on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament and council amending regulation (ec) no 1080/2008 on the european parliament and council as regards the mixed energy efficiency of buildings (com (2008) 024/06 final).
we are seeing real simplifications, real accelerations and, of course, a change in strategy by including energy-efficient investments.
i have my fingers crossed for my czech colleagues and for all the projects that the czech presidency intends to implement, including the very important eastern neighbourhood policy and the energy security of europe.
ecolabelling is information for consumers about environmental issues, including information about the product, which facilitates the decision to buy it.
the introduction of this system will contribute to improving the environment and combating climate change, and will also contribute to reducing water consumption.
- i supported mr angelakas' report because it emphasises the use of specific amounts of money to co-finance regional and local renewable energy programmes in housing.
in paragraph 17, the report refers to the full and multifaceted development of the individual, the promotion of respect for human rights and social justice, lifelong learning aimed at personal development and career advancement, the protection of the environment and the well-being of the individual and the community.
the social environment and the conditions in which children and young people develop must be taken into account.
this should allow for competition between producers of energy carriers and thus lower prices for the services provided.
thirdly, solutions to strengthen the position of the customer on the electricity and gas markets, in particular the possibility to change suppliers of energy carriers within a maximum of three weeks without incurring any additional charges, are noteworthy.
the debate on the energy package for the internal market in electricity and gas is needed.
in order to work well, regulations should answer questions such as: is there a single energy market in the union or should national markets be coordinated?
what kind of energy will ensure stable and sufficient supplies at relatively low prices over the next 30 years, which is important for the union's economy and its citizens?
what energy sources will best reduce the greenhouse effect and reduce the cost of mitigating it?
the third energy package was designed to serve customers primarily on our continent.
and it did - the customer is the most important, but the basic interests of producers and energy producers would also have to be taken into account.
the creation of a common energy market is becoming a reality, the principle of solidarity is now self-evident.
we can also invest outside the union when our security requires it secondly, the principle of open competition in the european energy market.
and that our energy companies can compete and invest freely outside the union on a reciprocal basis.
joint and coordinated investment in energy infrastructure is necessary for the success of the single energy area.
at the same time, environmental considerations and the establishment of a climate and energy package should be taken into account.
another challenge arising from the harmonisation of the eu energy market is the issue of ensuring the security of external energy supplies.
for economic reasons as well as for reasons of safety, it is necessary to seek diversification of supply and to increase efforts to develop european energy.
finally, there is the concern that the full opening of the energy market to competition could endanger the union's poorest people, who often cannot afford to pay their bills regularly.
cheap energy made it easy to ignore the cost of heating.
large-scale modernisation and revitalisation of buildings and entire large-scale housing estates in the eu will reduce heating costs, raise living standards, create tens of thousands of new jobs and reduce energy consumption.
this will translate directly into the kind of greenhouse gas reduction that will bring us closer to the 3x20 target.
europe faces many challenges in energy supply and demand in the short, medium and long term.
we're going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020, and we're going to reduce energy consumption by 20 percent.
i therefore believe that particular attention should be paid to the energy performance of buildings, as they account for as much as 40% of total energy consumption.
i also support extending the use of the structural funds to energy efficiency in buildings to all community countries and increasing the amount of erdf allocation that could be used to implement projects in this area from 3% to 15%.
how could 480 auditors, based in luxembourg, however competent, working with a very complex legislative environment, in 27 member states with 23 official languages, possibly have the basis for issuing a statement each year on the legality and regularity of all underlying transactions in all spending areas?
− in july 2006, the commission presented a strategy to reduce the overall risk and negative impact of pesticides on human health and the environment.
the directive lays down requirements that must be met by machinery and application equipment in order to limit the adverse effects of pesticides on the environment, the operator and the surrounding area.
the establishment of these requirements will reduce the differences between the rules and procedures adopted for the application of pesticides in certain community countries, ensure a uniform level of environmental protection in the community, and allow the free movement of these machines on the union market, which is of particular importance for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the most frequent producers of these machines.
i am calling for a directive to help protect the environment, operators and the surrounding area when pesticides are applied.
it is designed to harmonise environmental and human health standards in the european union.
as a result, the directive will reduce the use of pesticides (thus reducing their negative impact on the environment) and will have a positive impact on the health of consumers and citizens who come into direct contact with pesticides at work.
i believe that it is necessary to change the patterns of urban development so that urban transport is friendly to people and the environment.
let's not waste any more time.
this is illustrated by figures such as:- the number of fatalities on eu roads - around 43 000 in 2006, including around 5500 in poland;- the cost of traffic congestion in eu countries on an annual basis - around 1% of gdp;- co2 emissions from road transport - around 70% of global emissions.
in taking part in this debate on behalf of the uen group, i would like to draw attention to the following points: despite the ambitious objectives of reducing road congestion, reducing the environmental impact of road transport, and promoting short sea shipping, rail, inland waterway and combined transport modes in freight transport, the funds allocated to the marco polo programme are only used up half of the time each year and the objectives of the programme are only implemented by 60%.
by high-energy milling.
due to their large surface area and high surface energy, nanoparticles are characterised by:- the ability to catalyze chemical reactions;- considerable reactivity (potential);- ease of penetration into living cells.
loose nanoparticles released uncontrolled into the environment may pose a health hazard.
the source of nanoparticles released into the environment are:- products intentionally produced by the 'top-down' method, e.g.
the role of the state should be to safeguard animal welfare, balance in their environment and to ensure that illegally obtained skins, meat of wild animals, including seals, do not reach the market, and the practice is severely punished.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
it is clear to me that the money for broadband and climate change in rural areas will go to the companies and businesses that do the work, not to the farmers or the rural people.
the granting of aid for energy projects is expected to lead to economic recovery, increased security of energy supply and reduced greenhouse gas emissions.
the most important are those concerning interconnection of energy networks.
however, these projects do not include, in my view, energy interconnections between poland and germany.
in the debate on the report on budgetary discipline and sound financial management in the context of the multiannual financial framework (2007-2013), i would like to draw attention to three points: 1.the allocation of eur 5 billion in 2009 and 2010 to finance energy projects and a compensated rural information network should be supported, with eur 3.5 billion for energy networks and eur 1.5 billion for rural information networks.
safe jobs and tackling unemployment while promoting sustainable development are our priorities, underpinning all our proposals and initiatives.
i have been in the european parliament since 2004. i was involved in research, innovation, new technologies, then energy security, then climate change and mitigation and the eastern partnership.
we know that this has been a difficult presidency because of the crisis, including the energy crisis.
beneath the surface, a growing climate crisis threatens to be the greatest of our long-term challenges.
climate change will threaten the survival of many plant and animal species.
our climate is threatened by our use and dependence on fossil fuels.
we already have the conditions for the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies.
according to the international energy agency, more than half of the measures needed to keep the 2c target can be achieved with the technology we already have.
in addition, action on climate change is accompanied by very valuable side effects, effects which in themselves justify the action.
when we use less energy, we save money.
when we invest in renewable energy and improve energy efficiency, we improve our energy security.
if ukraine invested in energy efficiency to the same level as the czech republic or slovenia, this would translate into energy savings equivalent to all of its gas imports for own use from russia.
ukraine could become completely independent of gas imports from russia and also save a lot of money just by increasing its own energy efficiency.
that's how we have to search for the climate killer.
if we are to succeed in getting a global climate agreement in place, then the journey from kyoto to copenhagen must go from a coalition of volunteers to a shared responsibility.
we need to put a price on emissions around the world.
we need to start using national carbon taxes and emissions trading.
if fossil fuel use is priced out of the climate equation, global warming will continue.
measures to increase energy efficiency will not be economically viable.
it is not enough to limit emissions in a circle of countries that voluntarily undertake reductions, but which together account for only 30 percent of emissions.
because even if the so-called annex i countries were to reduce their emissions to zero, the rapidly growing emissions of the developing countries would still take us beyond the two-degree target.
now we want to write the story of how the climate threat was averted, and we want to write it with you.
it is not sustainable that three out of ten europeans of working age are outside the labour market.
i want to see a europe that takes the lead in tackling the climate threat, that overcomes the temptation to compete with an industry that does not pay for the emissions that are destroying our climate, and that re-engineers the incentives so that green technology pays off, so that our children and their children can experience nature as we know it.
today i want to highlight two of the biggest policy challenges facing the european union in the next six months: dealing with the economic crisis and negotiating an ambitious international agreement on climate change in copenhagen.
concerning climate change, europe is already the first region in the world to implement far-reaching, legally binding climate and energy targets.
for the first time, all participants committed to capping the temperature increase at 2°c to respect climate science.
the climate change agenda is, of course, closely linked with another priority: energy security.
mr. prime minister, we also share your belief that it's important to address climate issues.
climate issues i know that the prime minister has a bold view on this issue, i want to encourage you to have that courage in this area they show very clearly that today we are no longer just living in one europe, but in one world and the threats are common, we have to fight them effectively.
the ecosystem there must be protected from threats such as the very dangerous and also financially absurd nord stream project.
the need for energy diversification should also be mentioned.
i note your zeal and the expectation of the swedish presidency, your desire that we should be more assertive in the climate negotiations and act against the financial crisis and economic downturn.
against this background, there is a strong need to maintain long-term sustainable public finances.
the climate challenge will require the reallocation and allocation of resources.
projects in the energy and infrastructure sectors are another area where more resources are being added.
there is also an additional eur 50 million in commitment appropriations and eur 20 million in payment appropriations to assist developing countries in combating climate change, which should help to promote a successful outcome to the december copenhagen climate change conference.
another issue that we have to deal with, both in the short and long term, is of course climate issues and the financing of climate policy.
it takes energy and work.
it's the foundation of the sustainability and stability of this system, the guardian of the ideas and values that materialize not only in our decisions and their consequences, but in our debates.
in my view, these are the following important challenges: first, the economic crisis and european solidarity; second, energy and the environment; third, foreign policy; fourth, human rights and the value system; fifth, our parliament and its reform.
we are facing an energy crisis.
we must continue to diversify our energy sources by increasing investment in renewable energy and fossil fuels.
nuclear energy remains at the disposal and decision of the member states.
we need to increase the interconnections between our gas and electricity networks and consider the possibility of joint gas purchases, so that a genuine european energy solidarity market can be created.
i think it is time for a real common energy policy for the union.
our energy policy must take account of the environmental risks associated with climate change.
i worked with many of my fellow mps on the temporary committee on climate change.
as president of the parliament, i am aware that i have a responsibility to create a good working environment for you.
many members have spoken about all the challenges we face: the climate issue, the economic crisis, jobs, europe's role in the world, etc.
i would like to ask, in the context of what was discussed (the common energy policy), what do you think should be the fate of the more german-russian project today, i am thinking here of the gas pipeline, because you spoke about energy policy?
we have the same view on climate.
we talked about climate change, about the climate in europe, about the crisis, about unemployment.
i have a lot of energy in that direction, but it certainly takes the energy of over 700 deputies.
the answer to the question of gas supplies, oil supplies and energy in general is to talk about a common energy policy.
that is why i am strongly proposing a common energy policy.
there is the financial crisis, but also the energy crisis.
there are food security issues and climate change, where europe is now leading the way.
the mandate of the commission which i now chair was the first commission of the enlarged europe, of the greater europe of 27. i believe that now that we have consolidated this europe, we have the conditions for a new ambition: a new social ambition, because there is a crisis and unemployment is the first problem of europeans; a new ambition in the fight against climate change, where we already play a leading role; and a new ambition in the response to globalisation.
we will invest in new sources of sustainable growth, in smart green growth, in the networks of the future from digital infrastructure to the european super grids for electricity and gas all this to promote high levels of employment and social provision and to reinforce the european model of society, while succeeding in an increasingly competitive world.
we have to create the conditions where the transition to a low-carbon economy is a source of competitive advantage for our businesses, a source of jobs for our workers and a source of hope for future generations.
yes, we need an integrated vision for a coherent european strategy, a european union 2020 strategy that builds on open markets by combining new sources of sustainable growth, employment and social cohesion, our climate and energy security agenda, a fresh approach to industrial policy and a move to a knowledge society.
yes, this means overhauling the lisbon strategy after 2010. yes, we need a much more integrated approach to the economic, social and environmental strands of the different strategies.
i will also create the post of commissioner for climate action to reflect the fact that climate change is a challenge that needs to be addressed across the whole range of our policies.
a dedicated commissioner for climate action will also send an important signal that, regardless of the level of ambition that comes out of copenhagen, europe is serious about maintaining momentum for action.
i believe that, from fighting climate change to energy security, the potential is there if we want to work together in research and innovation for europe.
there is one thing in this programme, however, which is especially close to our hearts, and that is energy security.
the present situation is not satisfactory, but rather grey, because, in spite of all the declarations and apparent goodwill, the progress made in terms of energy infrastructure and crisis mechanisms is far from sufficient.
many of the questions were on energy security, from mr saryusz-wolski, mr marinescu and others.
at the time of the russia-ukraine problem, president putin decided to call me, precisely to inform me of this problem, and you know how much time and energy we have spent in the commission, with other partners, trying to find a solution to a problem that concerned russia and ukraine, but which had consequences for european consumers.
i therefore include these issues among the commission's top priorities, but there is indeed resistance to the implementation of a genuine internal energy market.
i hope that during the next term of office, with your support, we will overcome these remaining obstacles, let us be frank and sincere, and establish a genuine integrated energy market in europe.
i believe that this issue of energy security is also essential for the fight against climate change.
i say again, especially to the greens: we can always be more ambitious, but frankly, i think we should be pleased that the european union, on the basis of a commission proposal, is at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
all the member states have made an effort, but it was on the basis of an ambitious proposal from the commission that we were able to fight against global warming and i am counting heavily on you to keep europe at the forefront of this fight.
they're starting to talk to us about fighting climate change.
i think the commission's record on the environment is well known.
someone said that biodiversity is not there.
we do not want relocation, but we do need to adapt this industrial base to the new constraints of global competition and, above all, to the great challenges of climate change and greener growth.
- the mr president, on mr kelly's question, it is foreseen that very large sums will be raised by the treasury departments of the member states from the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances and among the measures that governments can take is to use part of this money to support low-wage or energy-poor people.
the new renewable energy directive requires member states to support and implement administrative and infrastructure reforms to facilitate the development of renewable energy sources.
each member state has committed to achieving certain targets by 2020 and has to submit by june next year a national renewable energy action plan, which will analyse how the targets will be achieved.
with regard to the recast of the energy performance of buildings directive, the commission has also committed to further strengthening community financial instruments and proposing new ones to support the implementation of this directive.
the commission already provides direct funding for a variety of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, such as: - a series of research and development efforts under the framework programme for research and technological development.
- eur 727 million for the period 2007-2013 from the 'smart energy - europe' programme, to help remove various obstacles to the development of renewable energy sources and to improve the business environment and public awareness.
- the sustainable energy financing initiative, managed jointly by the commission and the european investment bank, with a budget of eur 15 million for 2009 and aimed at mobilising financial resources from the capital markets and the marguerite fund, european energy, climate change and infrastructure fund, managed by the european investment bank.
the commission also encourages member states to use a significant part of the funds of the european union's cohesion policy funds to support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
and of course i have to remind you that with the energy and climate package adopted last december, there will be enough money from the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission rights which, under the agreement reached, should be earmarked by 50% for the fight against climate change and other related uses.
this means that the plants, and in particular the open-pit mining of lignite, which - by itself - destroys the environment and nature by various problems caused not only to the physical condition of the soil but also to the waters by other pollutants and, as is well known, by the creation of large emissions of carbon dioxide, since lignite is, in this respect, the worst fuel: if you put a scale, it might be among the last in terms of carbon emissions.
but, in addition, i would like to say that there is community funding which can equally help to repair the environmental damage caused by mining activities.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
we also want to raise the issue of climate finance.
the macro-region requires a coordinated sustainable development policy.
the strategy responds to the key challenges identified here, such as how to achieve prosperity in a region without the development of innovation and entrepreneurship, or how to fail to appreciate the baltic as a common good without building a sustainable environment, or security in the region, including energy, without building new sources of generation and interconnections.
in terms of priorities, i would first like to note the establishment of a common european union energy policy, including a competitive baltic energy market.
this includes both the security of energy supply and energy efficiency aspects, as well as the development of renewable energy sources.
latvia, lithuania and estonia need to be integrated into the overall regional energy network, including nordel.
to speak of effective economic development and environmental protection, the third priority is the innovation economy, which means balanced, knowledge-based growth.
the five billion energy programme, the globalisation fund and other financial instruments must now be used.
innovation-driven prosperity, the environment, accessibility in terms of transport and energy connections, and security and safety are the four major areas for joint work by all partners who are involved in preparation of the strategy: all three european institutions – parliament, the commission, the council – but also national governments, regional and local authorities, business and academic communities and non-governmental organisations.
this is particularly relevant in the context of the increasing challenges facing the baltic sea since the eu enlargement in 2004. it is important to take action to improve the ecological situation in this region, which is currently one of the most polluted marine areas in the world.
the breach of the chemical weapons stored on the bottom of the baltic sea by creating any kind of infrastructure can lead to an ecological disaster, and it is the breach during the construction of the baltic gas pipeline of the chemical weapons storage sites from the second world war that is one of the greatest threats to the ecosystem.
it is therefore necessary to assess the environmental impact of the construction of the pipeline on the baltic sea basin.
we need to take urgent and effective action to combat global warming, which is one of the causes of fires.
the resolution also stresses the importance of coordinating the eu's climate risk prevention mechanisms, and in particular the effective use of the european union solidarity fund to mitigate the effects of fires.
this dialogue is an important element in assisting tajikistan in promoting cooperation with its neighbours and in finding solutions to pressing and complex regional problems, such as climate change, water and border management.
the rhythm of contacts between us has gathered pace, and there is now a shared understanding of the benefits of greater cooperation on security matters, border management and controls, education, governance and energy diversification.
the commission is wrong not to react to gazprom's continued penetration of the european energy market.
the energy link between these countries and europe will strengthen their sovereignty, improve our security and perhaps open the way to the reforms we want.
if afghanistan is a test for nato, then the test of the fitness and maturity of the european union is undoubtedly energy security.
we could have checked that in january of this year during the energy crisis.
we are passing resolutions because we all feel that the union is not able to respond to the energy security issues.
and we see, commissioner, that interest in nabucco is declining, but not in all energy projects among the eu countries.
nabucco could be a very good step towards energy security.
if we continue to rely on words, then in the next energy crisis we will be able to send our resolutions to the citizens of the eu countries and then they will burn them.
the energy charter and the transitional protocol to the energy charter are an attempt to establish a system based on clear principles.
russia's recent signal to withdraw from the energy charter treaty should be a warning.
it should also be an incentive for the commission to take action as soon as possible for a european energy security system.
i voted for this resolution because the energy issue is such a great test of european solidarity.
energy policy must be linked to foreign policy.
the commission also has to look at the different energy security situations in different european countries.
the fight against global warming means that coal-based energy can be in a financial mess.
what is needed is action and a clear political will from the european commission and the energy commissioner.
the systematicity of these events means that there must be something in the climate, in the social, political atmosphere of russia that causes these murders to happen so often.
we need to address our citizens' concerns about energy issues, rising unemployment, immigration and climate change.
let us also remember that despite these institutional matters this swedish presidency – and this autumn – is, of course, very much influenced by the need to move on climate change, the need to move on the financial crisis, the worry in europe that we need a policy for job creation – a lot of important matters that need to be addressed.
let us not waste the time we have so little, and in which we should do so much!
it also sets out the possibility of withdrawal from the union, the possibility of a citizens' initiative and the need to create a european energy policy, which is very important for the future of europe.
i would like to stress in particular that the current economic crisis is the result not only of the collapse of financial markets but also of the earlier food and energy crises.
it would be fully intermodal and have a sustainable environmental impact.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on climate change and developing countries in the context of the un conference on climate change in copenhagen.
i was very concerned to hear reports of the meeting of the ministers of finance and the ministers of the environment, and in particular the draft outcome document, which fails to address the key question: how does the european union intend to support the world's poorest countries in their efforts to reduce carbon emissions and adapt to climate change?
but if the union is to be a leader in the fight against climate change, it must try to put forward concrete proposals and concrete solutions, especially since some of this is our internal affair, like the co-financing mechanism.
the world's poorest countries have contributed the least to climate change, yet they are the ones suffering the most from its consequences.
the heavy dependence of many of the poor countries on agriculture and fisheries, as well as their poor infrastructure, puts them in a very difficult situation when it comes to climate change.
so far in the last four years, africa alone, the poorest of the continents and one of the most vulnerable to the consequences of climate change, has received less than 12 percent of the funds that are available to fight climate change.
the resolution calls into question the hard-won climate package, the costs of which are now being borne unevenly by the central european member states.
we are trying to impose economically lethal standards on member states, while not requiring anything specific from the countries most responsible for co2 emissions in the world.
copenhagen is not worth signing an agreement that will not share the burden of reducing co2 emissions in the world proportionately.
the european union is a leader internationally in promoting dialogue on climate change and in setting policy priorities for reducing co2 emissions.
none of the industrialized powers, nor the united states, japan or australia, has so far come up with a concrete proposal, with concrete numbers to help developing countries in their efforts to reduce co2 emissions and support the development of energy-efficient renewable energy technologies.
it should be an aid scheme that takes account of the principles of sustainable development and should allow beneficiaries to plan their actions.
the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts to help the eu institutions and citizens to develop their own climate action plans.
firstly, when we propose to reduce co2 emissions and to allocate funds to developing countries, we cannot forget the current economic and financial situation caused by the global crisis, because setting ambitious targets is very important, but i think the most important thing is to achieve them.
secondly, we should focus on the issue of public awareness and the need for change in environmental issues.
a study conducted at last year's poznan climate conference shows that the public sees climate change as a serious problem, but believes that it is only up to the government to solve it.
this is why we need an appeal, an information campaign, to change attitudes and promote behavioural patterns to increase efficiency or reduce energy consumption in households and to make people aware that the way we live, the way we work has an economic and ecological cost.
for the past five years, i have witnessed an unprecedented climate hysteria being unleashed here in the european parliament by a select group of recruits from all political factions, mainly the greens and the socialists.
this hysteria is skillfully fuelled by speeches by the president of the commission and the former president of parliament, who are threatening unimaginable disasters from climate change.
the economic decisions contained in the climate and energy package, based on the unreliable hypothesis of the causes of climate change, are not only a cynical mockery of common sense, but also a harbinger of future economic and civilizational disaster.
we must demand an honest discussion, based on the views of the whole objective world of science, on the causes of climate change and, above all, on how to prevent it.
a month and a half before the copenhagen summit, the world is looking to us to take concrete action, to be responsible and to think in terms of working together for people and their safety, in the face of the inevitability of climate change.
you all know the reports of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, which clearly state that most of the warming observed over the last 50 years is due to human activities.
climate change has become the geopolitical and economic priority of the 21st century, which requires bold and long-term action.
we need to define, through global consensus, climate treaties that will build new models for reducing emissions after 2012. the kyoto protocol was the first step in breaking the minds of world governments about environmental protection.
but the point is, you can't just stop at reducing emissions through developed countries like the united states or china.
support is needed for smaller, poorer countries that are struggling to implement alternative, green energy sources.
they're the ones we should be informing, educating and encouraging to invest in the environment.
i hope we will have time to discuss this in more detail tomorrow, because climate change will be one of the main topics of discussion at the next european council.
the commission will certainly fight for an ambitious programme because, as i have always said, climate change is not only an environmental matter, but also a development matter.
we welcome other positive developments, but in fact we are leading the world in this fight against climate change.
we have put a lot of emphasis on investment in some issues regarding the climate agenda and energy security.
that is why we have very recently come up with the set plan and we are also urging member states to devote more resources to financing green technologies, in other words all the technology that can enable us to become a more sustainable, greener economy.
so i think smes should remain a priority of our action for sustainability, including sustainable employment.
– so that we can, in the end, have a college of committed europeans who are competent and experienced in all fields, from economy, general politics, energy, environment, justice, fundamental rights and so forth: a huge set of competences for which we need a very able group of people.
− madam president, for 2010 we need a budget harnessing effectively all european policies to pull the european economy out of the crisis, while at the same time preserving our long-term objectives and commitments, which are sustainable growth, economic and social cohesion, and our obligations vis-à-vis the external world, including candidate countries.
the council's cuts would limit or even prevent growth and job creation, but would also put a stop to the work to solve the energy problem of our citizens.
we will discuss issues such as combating climate change, finding ways to lead the eu out of the financial and economic crisis, promoting energy security and tackling the problem of irregular migration.
the major issue at the european council will be climate change.
the european council meeting comes at a very opportune time, just before the un climate panel negotiating session in barcelona and the g20 finance ministers meeting in st andrews.
eu environment ministers are meeting to discuss the conclusions on climate change.
key elements of the environment council conclusions will be to clarify the eu's strategy for long-term emission reductions and to seek agreement that can facilitate our decision to raise our emission reduction target from 20 to 30 per cent compared to 1990 levels.
the environment council conclusions will also address the issue of deciding on the eu's bid in the negotiations on emission reductions for international aviation and shipping, develop the eu's strategy for action in developing countries in terms of measurement, reporting and verification of efforts and the role of sectoral mechanisms, and further develop the eu's strategy against deforestation and forest degradation to accelerate the negotiations.
a high level of employment is required for sustainable public finances.
i would also like to say something about energy security.
in line with the june 2009 conclusions, the european council will assess next week what has been achieved in the field of energy infrastructure (interconnections) and crisis mechanisms.
this is absolutely essential if we are to get started on tackling the pressing environmental problems and achieving the objectives of the strategy.
military solutions alone can never lead to a sustainable solution.
let me highlight two main issues: the lisbon treaty and all institutional matters on the one hand, and the fight against climate change and the prospects for copenhagen on the other.
we must push on with our programme to address energy security.
domestic finance, namely from the large emerging economies – developing but emerging economies – and the carbon market should cover a large part of this, but large-scale international public finance should also be forthcoming, with the european union paying its fair share.
the copenhagen agenda is not just about climate change.
this is of course the main target, but the climate is also a question of a development, and we should not forget that very important dimension.
the task for the european council is again to find creative solutions, to show that the european union is united behind the need to fight climate change.
first, copenhagen must show that the drive to cut emissions is on its way; second, it must show that we are prepared to help those ready to take that step.
the eas has the potential to ensure the unity and consistency of our external action, which is most needed if the union is to act with one voice and meet external challenges such as energy security in an efficient manner.
the union also needs a strong voice, for example, on energy policy and solidarity.
our geopolitical strategic thinking in foreign policy cannot be limited to climate change and energy security.
i mean a shift away from the cult of profit at any cost and regardless of its long-term and irreversible consequences, a shift away from the cult of quantitative growth and growth growth, a shift away from the primitive ideal of catching up and outdoing america or china or anyone else, as well as a shift away from dangerously unconceptual colonization of the earth and mindless plundering of the planet with no regard for the environment and the interests of future generations.
i am, of course, referring to the ingenious conservation of energy, where the success of a state is measured not by the growth of its consumption, but by its decline.
i respect the energy and the achievements of the union in recent years.
what i have in mind is the shift away from the cult of profit at all costs and regardless of its long-term and irreversible consequences, a shift away from the cult of quantitative growth and 'growth of growth', a shift away from the primitive ideal of catching up with or outstripping america or china or anyone else, as well as a shift away from the perilously haphazard settlement of the earth and the mindless plunder of the planet without regard for the environment or the interests of future generations.
i am thinking here of course of the ingenious ways we are finding of saving energy, at a time when the success of a state is not measured by the growth, but by the fall, in its consumption.
i respect the energy devoted by the eu to this issue in recent years, as well as the successes it has achieved.
what i mean is that we must stop idolizing the making of profits at any cost without regard to their irreversible long-term effects, quantitative growth and the 'growth of growth', the old ideal of catching up with or even surpassing the united states, china or any other country that gives us an advantage, as well as the dangerous and arbitrary colonization of the earth and the unreasonable plundering of the planet with no consideration for the environment or the interests of future generations.
i am thinking, of course, of the ingenious ways of saving energy that we have discovered, at a time when the success of a state is measured not by the growth, but by the fall, of its consumption.
in this environment, various supranational or continental societies play and will play an increasingly important role.
what i am saying is that we must turn our backs on the cult of profit at any cost, with no regard for its irreversible and long-term consequences, the cult of quantitative growth and 'growth of growth', the primitive ideals of the united states, china and others to catch up and outpace, the dangerous and disorderly colonization of the earth and the senseless plundering of the planet with no regard for the environment or the interests of future generations.
i am thinking of course of ingenious ways of saving energy, when the success of a country is not measured by growth but, on the contrary, by a decrease in its consumption.
the question of shared sovereignty is most often raised in european debates in connection with the institutional organization of the union, to which i pay tribute for the energy it has deployed in recent years on this subject and for the successes it has achieved.
i am referring to the abandonment of the cult of profit at any cost, without regard to the long-term and irreversible consequences, the abandonment of the cult of quantitative growth and ever-increasing growth, the abandonment of the primitive notion that america or china or anyone else must necessarily catch up and overtake, and also the abandonment of the dangerously ill-conceived colonization of the earth and the mindless plundering of the planet without regard to the environment and the interests of future generations.
i am referring, of course, to sophisticated energy-saving concepts in which the success of a state is measured not by increasing but by decreasing its consumption.
i have respect for the energy that the union has devoted to this issue in recent years and for the successes it has achieved.
the october council conclusions provide a good basis for reducing completely unrealistic expectations of europe on climate change.
our climate change action should be fully conditional on the efforts of china, america, india, brazil.
let us remember that it is economic growth that gives us the opportunity to finance technological change that is crucial to environmental protection.
the eu's own contribution must not lead to a situation where countries with high energy consumption of coal pay twice for the same emissions: once for the operation of the emissions trading system and the second time as part of the promotion of clean technologies in the world.
these are the problems of energy cooperation and security cooperation.
i therefore welcome this important step, which is the establishment by the largest groups in the european parliament of a joint, and very good, draft resolution, but i believe that it can be even better if we include in it a third amendment which underlines the importance of eu-russian energy cooperation but also shows on what basis this cooperation should be implemented.
the aim is to minimise financial costs, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis, but also to take account of any energy concerns.
that is why it has attacked georgia, is making a de facto anschluss of south ossetia and abkhazia, is threatening ukraine, is interfering with the missile shield in poland or the czech republic, uses energy blackmail.
it is therefore both symbolic and sinister that just before the eu-russia summit, the country holding the eu presidency and the host of the summit, sweden, is withdrawing its ecological veto against the nord stream project, which makes no economic sense and whose only purpose is to overturn in practice the principle of energy solidarity, which was supposed to be one of the main principles and ideas of the lisbon treaty.
if there is no sincerity within the union, if, just a few days after the final ratification of the lisbon treaty in the czech republic, the words of energy solidarity mean nothing and the next steps towards the construction of the northern gas pipeline follow; if there is no serious reference in our relations to the energy charter, the sarkozy plan or the recent russian manoeuvres on poland's eastern border, then we will not tolerate anything.
you have talked about trade, business, the climate package, completely forgetting what is important, perhaps most important for the european union.
the proposal to weaken the poor regions of the european union at the expense of fighting climate change is not rational and does not make sense.
it is possible to help the poor regions of the union and at the same time, with good projects, to mitigate climate change, reduce gas emissions, introduce renewable energy and modern technological solutions.
the concept of a single and solidarity-based policy is becoming particularly important in the context of european energy security.
the ep has always stressed the importance of issues such as human rights, energy security and minority rights, so these issues could not be left out of the summit.
in particular, the amendment adopted by the ep to amendment no 3 to the resolution 'eu-russia in stockholm' adding a new article 9a to the resolution: 'stresses that the creation of infrastructure links between the eu and the russian federation is mutually beneficial and should therefore be encouraged and based on minimising economic and environmental costs; strongly encourages russia to respect the basic principles of the energy charter in its energy cooperation projects with the eu'.
we must remember that countries like georgia, armenia, azerbaijan and kazakhstan are not only politically important to the european union, but also strategically important in terms of energy security.
they will be the ones to decide, and they are already deciding, what the future supply of energy resources to the european union will look like.
the vote will take place on wednesday 25 november 2009.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparations for the copenhagen summit on climate change.
the last time i was here in parliament to discuss climate issues was just before i met my colleagues at the october meeting of the environment council.
at that meeting we agreed on a strong and united eu mandate for the un climate conference in copenhagen.
we agreed, among other things, that by 2050 the eu's emissions must be reduced by between 80% and 95% compared with 1990. we also stated that the eu will reduce emissions by 20% by 2020 under all circumstances, but that we want to reduce by 30% if a sufficiently far-reaching agreement is reached in copenhagen.
emissions from international transport shall be reduced.
the destruction of rainforests must be halved by 2020 and stopped by 2030. the eu is calling for decisions at the copenhagen summit to stop deforestation, support reforestation and create sustainable forestry.
only then can we reduce emissions fast enough to achieve a successful outcome in copenhagen.
this has been done in particular in cooperation with the european parliament, where the climate and energy package has formed the basis of the eu's ambitious positions.
now, there's only two weeks left until the copenhagen climate summit.
earth's climate has waited long enough.
yesterday we held an extraordinary meeting of the environment council to work together to make copenhagen the climate change milestone we wanted.
it requires an agreement in copenhagen that, taken together, will deliver emissions reductions so large that the goal of keeping global temperature rise below 2 degrees is within reach.
an agreement with all countries that means that the developed countries commit to emission reductions that cover their total emissions, that means economy-wide target; we assume that every industrialized country appends its commitments to the copenhagen agreement, including the united states.
an agreement whereby developing countries commit to action that reduces emissions relative to what would have happened without action, particularly in the major economies, and whereby developed countries provide immediate financial support for necessary actions in developing countries, not least in the poorest countries, in 2010, 2011 and 2012. an agreement establishing a system of long-term support for emission reduction, adaptation, technology cooperation and technology transfer.
finally, an agreement must also include a review mechanism so that it can be adapted to what science shows is necessary to cope with the climate.
the decision on all matters of climate importance will be taken in copenhagen.
rapid action is needed if we are to be able to turn the earth's emissions curve down fast enough.
a copenhagen agreement must cover all the world's emissions.
i fully agree with minister andreas carlgren that we must intensify our efforts and work closely together to ensure that we do not lose this historic opportunity that is before us, namely to achieve in copenhagen a global, comprehensive, ambitious, science-based agreement on climate change.
it is an ambitious resolution which confirms the importance which the european parliament attaches to the issue of climate change.
i would also like to stress the importance of their contacts with parliaments in third countries, with civil society and with businesses, in order to make the european union's position known and, in this way, to put pressure on other countries to follow up with binding declarations on the reduction of greenhouse gases.
in this connection, as you know, the commission is of the opinion that the existing instruments of the carbon dioxide emission system should be extended by the establishment of a sectoral credit facility.
as regards reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries, in red, the commission will make every effort to promote strong social and environmental standards, also taking into account the impact on biodiversity and ecosystems.
what remains extremely important is to secure further commitments for concrete measures and actions towards a less carbon-intensive economy.
developing countries should certainly contribute, with emphasis on the development of low-carbon economies.
as i said, developing countries need to reduce their emissions by 15-30% from business as usual.
we also want this agreement to be comprehensive, to cover all the elements of the bali action plan, to incorporate the progress made to date and to contain quantified emissions reductions and financing.
in conclusion, i would like to mention once again the decisive role played by the european parliament in promoting the european union's ambitious climate policy.
at this time in 2005, developing countries exceeded the european co2 emissions.
today, parliament wants to do more than just burden the economy with even more drastic climate regulations.
we are responsible not only for the climate, but also for the well-being of our citizens.
the decision to make the financing of this issue dependent on a question of not per capita income, but the pollution limit is a decision that strikes at the economy of the countries of the new union, including my country, poland.
when we want to take responsibility for things on a global scale, i'm not going to go into details here, then that responsibility must be shared equally by everyone, some in terms of reduction, some in terms of environmental protection, some in terms of something else that we lack today.
the debate, the discussions, the negotiations on the international climate agreement in copenhagen have been going on for months.
it is about combating climate change, which could lead to a real ecological disaster.
the fight against climate change cannot be seen as a whim of rich countries who want to impose their views on others.
a strong policy is also needed to support the search for efficient carbon capture technologies from the production of the energy source that is coal.
this technology should be given the same political status as other renewable energy sources.
and lastly, the costs of creating a dedicated climate fund should be spread evenly across the member states according to their wealth.
what mechanisms will we use to ensure that all parties meet their commitments, and will we not end up as a lone warrior, with enormous effort and enormous costs, without impacting climate change and reducing carbon emissions?
in a few days, world leaders, including representatives of the european parliament, will meet in copenhagen to discuss climate change.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions is certainly important, but protecting european industry is equally important.
we cannot allow european companies to fail and industry to be moved to third countries which do not reduce co2 emissions.
the target of reducing carbon emissions by 30% by 2020 compared to 1990 seems elusive in the absence of support from the biggest polluters such as the us, india and china.
similarly, the draft resolution's commitment to achieve an 80% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2050 is also included.
the climate is changing.
moreover, poorly built infrastructure, such as energy, is often damaged, resulting in black-outs and interruptions in the use of information networks.
will the restrictive limitation of co2 emissions solve these problems?
first of all, nobody has ever proven that co2 emissions are the cause of climate change.
third, restricting emissions will only weaken humanity economically, and thus deepen the catastrophe.
emissions trading is an anti-social proposition, and the cost is borne by ordinary people.
so, for humanitarian and social reasons, the key issue is not the unlikely causes of climate change, but the effects.
− my responsibility is the overall coordination of the commission and of the strategy, but i will be working with several commissioners because, as you know, this european union 2020 strategy is by nature a transversal strategy, covering very important sectors, from economic competitiveness to sustainability – i.e.
the environment – as well as social inclusion aspects.
it is true that it was extremely difficult to get parliament's agreement to approve a specific budget for some of the actions relating to energy efficiency, energy security and also to the fight against climate change, and i am very pleased about that.
i can only say to you, as a representative of the commission, that the basic thesis of your question is that there is no doubt that our research, development and innovation policy over the next ten years must focus on energy efficiency, renewable energy and, more broadly, on technologies that enable a sustainable economy and way of life.
you know, i've always said that energy efficiency is probably the cheapest and most effective form of sustainability policy, because we can do a lot with a relatively small amount of money.
− in response to the first question, from mr tarabella, on energy prices, i can state that with the adoption of the third internal energy market package, the importance of the citizen in the internal energy market has been elevated considerably.
the new measures are intended to improve the operation of the retail energy market and provide additional consumer protection.
these topics are discussed and followed up at the citizens’ energy forum, established with the aim of improving the functioning of the retail market to the benefit of individual consumers.
the forum, involving the representatives of consumers, industry, national energy regulators and national administrations, seeks to improve implementation of energy legislation and may develop elements for codes of conduct with self-regulating and even quasi-binding effects on the industry.
in this context, a working group on billing was established at the first meeting of the forum in 2008. the working group’s recommendations are examples of good billing practice and were presented and endorsed at the second meeting of the forum in 2009. energy regulators and industry will report on the implementation of the billing recommendations in the next forum, which is expected to be in the autumn of 2010. the third internal energy market package also brought a new instrument intended to inform consumers – the european energy consumer checklist.
the checklist is a tool that will help inform consumers in the member states of their rights – notably on billing – and assist with the implementation and enforcement of energy legislation.
it aims to provide consumers with simplified, accurate and practical information on local energy markets.
the harmonisation of the competences of energy regulators in relation to consumer protection, which will result in active market monitoring, will further enhance their protection.
the public consultation entitled towards a charter on the european energy consumers was launched in july 2007. the results of the consultation showed that there was little knowledge of existing energy consumer rights.
the energy consumer rights that are in the existing european legislation are already legally binding.
our working group on billing, set up by the first citizens’ energy forum, confirmed that industry’s right to self-regulation, promoting innovation in billing, should be preserved.
i would like also to stress that during the citizens’ energy forum we endorsed the recommendations for good practice in billing, which aims to provide consumers with simple and clear information on gas and electricity bills.
this could also lead on to other questions, such as how to calculate the carbon footprint all of us leave through energy consumption.
turning to other areas, the commission has recently been doing much more on labelling in respect of energy efficiency and more price comparison, encouraging the use of consumer indexes, such as has been the case in italy and other countries, because this is also a very good service, provided through the internet, which helps consumers to fight for a better price.
the copenhagen climate summit is expected to endorse, among other things, the ambitious goals set by the european union.
the practical implementation of the lisbon treaty is to recognise that solidarity and energy policy also apply to existing law, for example the regulation on the security of gas supply.
and third, we're working on a strategy to combat climate change -- that's good.
− the parliament's resolution on the eu strategy for the copenhagen climate change conference is an important legislative document, which provides an important voice in the international debate and negotiations leading up to the climate summit, which is intended to complement the eu's position on the issue.
if the european union is to remain a leader in tackling climate change, it must continue to set ambitious reduction targets and meet its reduction commitments, setting an example for other countries despite the difficulties.
the text of the resolution itself cannot be a mere collection of demands and wishes without cover, but should represent a coherent and above all a solidary voice of eu citizens based on the principle of the common but differentiated responsibility of the member states to combat climate change.
- in today's vote on the eu strategy for the copenhagen climate conference, the european parliament took a radical and unrealistic position.
the european parliament is calling for a doubling of co2 emissions reductions in eu countries, challenging the recently hard-won climate package (paragraph 33 calls for a 40% reduction).
the european parliament, by calling for €30 billion a year to be spent on clean technologies in developing countries, expects coal-fired countries such as poland to pay twice for co2 emissions: once as a fee for emissions trading and once as a contribution to help developing countries combat climate change (paragraph 18 says that the contribution should be no less than €30 billion a year).
in demanding that the member states' contribution to clean technologies in developing countries be calculated on the basis of co2 emissions and gdp, parliament omitted the criterion of the ability to bear these costs.
this is the reason why the polish delegation was the only one to vote against the entire resolution on the eu strategy at the copenhagen conference on climate change (cop 15).
an obvious example is the nord stream project, which is directly aimed at transit countries, poland in particular, and south stream, which is moscow's response to nabucco's energy diversification plans.
europeans are asking whether our priorities and our policies are right, and specifically whether, for example, the costly fight against climate change is more important than the fight against poverty.
i myself was asked this week whether the european union is not mistaken in its aims and means and, instead of fighting the effects of global warming, is embarking on the costliest campaign in human history against wind turbines, namely climate change.
i think the best evidence that there is no contradiction between climate action and ending hunger would be the effectiveness of the latter, which is actually ending world hunger.
volunteering takes many forms across europe, but wherever it takes place, it is characterised by a selfless desire to help others, a willingness to work for the environment and to ensure that every citizen can live a life of dignity.
at the last eu-russia summit, the two sides signed a memorandum on the principles of an early warning system on energy issues.
the european commission hopes that this will help avoid a future energy crisis similar to the one at the beginning of the year.
the coming winter, and the consequent increase in gas consumption, is forcing us to develop the rules that should govern the european energy market.
trade can be the basis for sustainable and equitable development.
the commission is focusing on reducing the fleet without stopping the mass import of toxic waste from the far east into the european market.
secondly, it is for this reason that the committee for regional development has encouraged the commission and member states not only to use the financial resources available to invest in what are cohesion policy 2007-2013 priorities – climate change, knowledge and innovation, energy efficiency, renewable energy, broadband, sustainable urban transport and renewal of skills – but also to promote the leverage function of the cohesion policy; which is to efficiently use all the financial engineering tools which the cohesion policy has created in collaboration with the european investment bank in order to assist small and medium-sized companies not only to survive this difficult period but first of all to go the distance, to adapt to the changing face of the global economy which is transforming itself and to rise up to the challenge – and the opportunity – of climate change.
thirdly, let me inform members that all payment applications for the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund from the 2009 budget, totalling eur 25.5 billion, have been fully used, thus contributing to recovery, structural change, growth, employment and to climate-change energy efficiency.
on the one hand, it's supposed to help mitigate the economic crisis, and at the same time, we're funding climate change, mainly to reduce co2 emissions.
in the current economic and financial environment, which is characterised by a reduced supply of credit, progress will extend the scope of targeted financial assistance to new entrepreneurs.
although it created some artificial bubbles – not only in the financial sector but also in other sectors – it was not sustainable, including from an energy and climate point of view.
− two different questions: one regarding the portfolios on justice and security, the other on climate.
− i am happy to see that you are happy with the creation of the commissioner for climate change.
her main tasks will be to mainstream climate change in all sectors of the commission – not only the ones you have mentioned, but many others.
there is almost no policy in the european union that does not have some impact on climate action: from agriculture to research, from enterprise and industry to maritime affairs.
she will have a dedicated dg for climate change.
i want the commissioner for climate change to have some instruments to pursue her policy, but of course she has to do this in cooperation with other commissioners – namely the commissioner for environment, the commissioner for energy and others – because this is such an important policy that also has a very important external dimension.
also linked to the issue of innovative financing, i personally believe that, if we want to meet our obligations regarding the fight against climate change, it cannot be only with the money from our budgets.
it is obvious that our budgets are under such pressure that our national budgets alone over the next few years cannot provide the resources for fighting climate change.
i do not know anything about that statement, but let me tell you that, if there is one government that has been pushing the european union for ambitious targets in the fight against climate change, it is precisely the government of your country, whether you like it or not.
in fact, the common agenda today in the european union is to reduce global emissions of greenhouse gases.
we want industry to be kept in europe, but we want another kind of industry, which is less energy-consuming and friendlier to the environment.
− mr langen, i do not know exactly to what you are referring, but, if you are talking about emissions in europe, let us be honest about it: our emissions are roughly speaking 14% of global emissions and that trend is a downwards one, because there are big economies on the rise in terms of emissions.
however, on an emissions per capita basis, we are still far above those economies and let us be fair about it: we also have some historical responsibility.
the americans produce more greenhouse gas emissions per capita than we do, but we produce much more than china and much more than india, for instance, if you are referring to the indian case.
if we want to solve the problem and if we believe there is a threat to our planet – that of climate change – we need cooperative efforts on all sides.
in the long term, the best solution seems to be to join the euro area and create the conditions for sustainable and stable growth.
in just two days the un climate conference will be over.
the fight against climate change has been at the top of the agenda throughout the swedish presidency, at all our european council meetings and in all our summits with the union’s major partners.
as you probably know, we adopted a comprehensive mandate at our october european council to keep the eu’s leading position in the climate negotiations.
we agreed on a long-term goal for emissions reductions of 80%-95% by 2050 and we renewed our offer to reduce emissions – 30%, provided that others make comparable efforts.
we agreed on emission reductions for international transport and, despite resistance from some corners, we put figures on the global financial need in developing countries to fight climate change.
last week – after weeks of bilateral consultations – we took yet another step: a collectively put-together financial package earmarked for the ‘fast start’ of climate action in developing countries, offering eur 7.2 billion for the coming three years.
we need binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, not just from the developed countries, but also from developing countries, to ensure that global warming keeps below the 2°c target that science tells us is necessary.
emissions from the developing world are already starting to exceed those from the developed world.
we can help finance climate action in the developing world.
we can be satisfied if we get a deal on emissions reductions and on financing, and a commitment to start immediate action and, more importantly, we can start fighting climate change.
it will have better tools to fight climate change and influence the global economic agenda.
with the european council meeting last week, the swedish presidency has delivered on all five of its priorities: a strong eu mandate for climate change; follow-up of the economic and financial crisis; the eu baltic sea strategy; the stockholm programme for justice and home affairs; reinforcing the eu as a global actor, including enlargement, and a new external action service.
and as we enter the end game in copenhagen, we can be clear that the european union has been working hard to maintain the momentum it has championed towards decisive global action on climate change.
the european council had a particular significance for climate change.
in the past few years the european union has developed a consistent and ambitious approach on climate change.
the impact of reduced emissions may only be felt in several decades’ time, but we are already taking concrete steps, giving our targets the force of law.
the developed world must act, but it must also help the developing world to decouple growth and emissions.
the european council also reiterated its commitment for medium-term financing, to ensure it gives the fair contribution that is necessary for 2020. second, action on climate has sometimes been a divisive point for the european council.
if that deal includes real commitment to cut emissions from both developed and developing countries; a clear commitment on financing to make this happen; and an agreement on how this is to be applied and verified – if this agreement includes the different elements of the bali road map and can be seen to be in the right ball park to respect the 2°c limit, then i think we will say rightly that it will be a major achievement.
we were able to put a figure on the table – eur 2.4 billion annually – between 2010 and 2012. the importance for us was to say that this is directed to these years, earmarked for 2010 to 2012, and it will also be available for support when it comes to climate protection.
thank you for your activity and for your energy.
in those rules, product quality standards and production conditions are particularly important, including in the context of climate change mitigation and co2 emissions reduction.
in the energy sector, low gas prices are a thing of the past.
it was not by chance that, back in 2005 and 2006, the top priorities for european cohesion policy were: the lisbon strategy, innovation and competiveness, climate change, energy security and efficiency, water efficiency, investment in new skills, attractiveness of territories for young people, and quality of life.
a year ago the policy put all its assets at the disposal of the european recovery package, thereby also providing the essential link between the exit strategy from a real economic crisis on the one hand and long-term sustainable growth and structural transformation on the other.
to conclude, europe needs new energy to take care of its future, to renew itself in an assertive way.
it is legitimate to ask where this energy could and should come from.
today this energy should come from below.
today this energy can be released through the direct engagement of local and regional levels of european governance in the pursuit of common european objectives.
investments in environmental protection are also very important.
after 2013, cohesion policy should, in addition to these traditional actions and mechanisms, support research, science, development, innovation, the creation of modern jobs and the fight against climate change.
we also want to make europe's economy more competitive and to find solutions to help protect our climate.
the most important objective of this policy is sustainable development in various areas.
the challenges we face today are the economic crisis, the demographic challenge and, finally, climate change.
the agreements on the resources for the implementation of the european economic recovery plan, including energy projects, for which eur 1 980 million has been earmarked, are particularly important.
the european union is strengthening its energy security and promoting entrepreneurship, with particular attention to micro-enterprises.