the report by mr pedro guerreiro, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the cfp and the ecosystem approach to fisheries management (2008/2178 (ini)) (a6-0485/2008) follows.
the common fisheries policy (cfp) should promote the modernisation and sustainable development of the fisheries sector, ensuring its socioeconomic viability and the sustainability of fisheries resources, and guaranteeing the public supply of fish and food sovereignty and security, the maintenance of jobs and the improvement of the living conditions of fishermen.
that is to say, a fisheries policy is not and cannot be a policy for the oceans or the marine environment.
the first and foremost task of fisheries management, as an activity exploiting a self-renewable resource, is to control the total fishing effort in order to ensure maximum sustainable catch.
a fisheries policy must start from the assumption of the interdependence between the well-being of fishing communities and the sustainability of the ecosystems of which they are an integral part, in particular by recognising the specificity and importance of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing.
the implementation of an ecosystem-based approach to marine management necessarily requires multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral action across a range of measures, which go far beyond and are ancillary to those adopted in the fisheries sector, which have an impact on marine ecosystems.
rather than guesses based on preconceived ideas, the proposal for an ecosystem analysis of fisheries resource assessment should be based on validated scientific data.
in order to ensure the sustainability of resources, fishing activity and local communities, we consider it essential that member states exercise their sovereignty over the 12 miles of the territorial sea and that the area corresponding to the eez of the outermost regions be considered an exclusive access zone.
although a new food shortage crisis is not likely any time soon, it is likely to occur in the future, given the negative effects of climate change on agricultural production and the continuing increase in demand.
- in a very brief way, this own-initiative report of the european parliament aims to integrate the community's requirements for the preservation of the marine environment with the common fisheries policy, which has as one of its operational objectives the progressive implementation of an ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
in the interests of human health and the environment, it is essential to contribute to changing the problem of agricultural pesticides.
although we have many doubts about some aspects of the compromise, such as the question of non-chemical methods of control or phytopharmaceutical prevention and pest and crop management, we think it is right to apply the principle of mutual recognition of authorizations for plant protection products and to create zones that aggregate regions with similar ecological and climatic characteristics.
but we insist on studies which give us the real reality of the consequences of these measures on productivity and consequently on farmers' incomes, so that this bill can be distributed throughout society, since we are talking about environmental and food safety requirements.
i agree with the report adopted, particularly because the application of the principle of mutual recognition of authorizations for plant protection products will put an end to the competitive imbalances that exist between different member states (with different market sizes) and will above all reinforce environmental and food safety concerns.
the creation of three zones that aggregate regions with similar soil and climate characteristics is very positive.
i too would like to join the voice of the rapporteur, the commissioner and all our colleagues who have rejoiced at this initiative by the international labour organisation and who call on all member states to ratify convention no 188. the point is that deregulation of fisheries, the unregulated market without borders, principles and limits, is not only a victim of the sustainability of the resource fish but also of the fishermen themselves.
the irish have realised that in this particularly difficult international environment, being part of the european union and the eurozone has protected them from greater evils.
the czech presidency has put forward three priorities: the economy, energy and external relations.
i believe that this proposal to amend directive 76/769/eec will contribute to an effective reduction of the risk of environmental and human exposure to substances with dangerous properties such as dichloromethane (dcm), which has a unique profile of adverse effects on human health.
according to the scientific committee on health and environmental risks, one of the main concerns related to the toxicity of dcm is the risk to particularly vulnerable populations.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life of the animals.
however, it is clear that the energy factor plays a significant role in driving this process forward in the present context.
secondly, production within the european union increasingly requires compliance with safety standards, social standards and environmental standards.
how can the commissioner make her colleagues and the bodies dealing with european monetary policy aware of the need to rebalance... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, developing a coherent and comprehensive community energy policy is a logical step and a necessary type of intervention.
the european union's dependence on oil imports increases indirectly our dependence on countries which are politically unstable or with which any energy partnerships create major geostrategic tensions, as we have recently seen with russia.
for these reasons, it is important to reorient the search for alternative energy sources to oil in a strategic way, but also to look geographically with greater commitment at the south american and african markets, which are currently expanding and to which the development of the eu-brazil and eu-africa partnerships can contribute greatly by using the iberian area, spain and portugal where i come from, as a key platform for logistics and distribution in the european area.
as regards the fundamental need to enhance energy efficiency, it is important to ensure appropriate synergies between sectors that can contribute to greater energy efficiency.
the link between energy and territorial cohesion is undeniable as regards possible long-term solutions for all regions of the european union, including the most isolated and outermost regions.
the fourth and final point relates to the environmental sustainability of this sector of activity.
although co2 emissions from small aircraft are lower, there is still a need to promote research, development and innovation not only in the context of the clean sky and cesar initiatives, but also in the use of less polluting engines and cleaner fuels.
taking into account the environmental pressures of human activities over the centuries, wilderness areas now represent only 46% of the earth's surface.
we have an obligation to ensure that future generations can enjoy and benefit from wilderness areas in europe, but the development of sustainable tourism can be used as a means to add economic value to wilderness areas and to foster conservation support, encouraging the ordinary citizen to discover the hidden values of nature without damaging it, and increasing acceptance of conservation policy, as citizens understand the need for protection through their personal experience, as they help to maintain wilderness areas economically, which can generate employment opportunities for the people in the area.
they should therefore be central to european biodiversity policy and the natura 2000 network should take these spaces into account in order to make the best use of their ecosystem services.
and we must do it for ourselves, for our interest in preserving the richness of biodiversity, for the need to preserve the planet on which we have been offered to live.
the protection of wild nature, especially where it coexists with human activities, must mean the promotion of balance, conservation and sustainability.
- we voted against this report because we disagree with many of the proposals which are advocated here, always based on competition and the liberalisation of markets in a strategic area where public policies and public ownership of the main means of energy production were essential.
we also agree that there should be more research in the field of energy, particularly in the field of nuclear waste transmutation and nuclear fusion.
the debate on the strategic analysis of energy policy is not without its mark.
energy dependence (whether from russia or from the major oil-producing countries) and its consequences; the rising cost of energy, whether due to the increase in its price due to the global increase in demand, or due to the decrease in the purchasing power of states impoverished by a severe economic crisis; the environmental consequences, at various levels, of a steady increase in global energy consumption, which the economic crisis should not reverse, all these factors converge on the need for a strategic approach based on less dependence and therefore greater diversity of both suppliers and energy consumed, greater efficiency, sustained development of research into alternative energies, greater integration and, at the same time, development of local production capacities, namely through alternative energies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- i voted in favour of the karl-heinz florenz report on '2050: the future starts today - recommendations for the future integrated eu policy on climate change', as it presents a series of proposals to the european union, the member states and its citizens with a view to ambitious targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union.
i would like to stress that the problem of climate change requires a transversal approach at all levels of public policy-making and that investment in green technologies is also a requirement of the current economic crisis which will create more jobs.
i consider the outcome document of the clim committee, of which i was a member, to be a very positive contribution to the fight against climate change and to clearly demonstrate the need to reach an international agreement at the copenhagen conference at the end of the year.
- the report fails to address the essential issue of the causes of environmental abuse: the predatory nature of capitalism.
although the final text adopted in plenary is more restrained than the initial proposal, and there are some positive aspects, we do not agree with other points, in particular when they use the cloak of environmental protection as another opportunity to intensify the ideological offensive, to make people and workers responsible, to commercialise and make all environmental activity profitable.
i agree with the report as a whole, but i voted against the more direct references to the impact of livestock on climate change, because i think they are too much.
agriculture should not be ostracized, but rather the production and consumption of local products with less greenhouse gas emissions from their transport should be promoted.
i also voted in favour of references to the problems of the agricultural sector resulting from the impacts of climate change, considering that the most adversely affected regions should be adequately compensated.
as regards adaptation to climate change, i agree with the urgency of the implementation of the new framework directive on soil protection and with the need to adapt cohesion policy, water protection and the natura 2000 network to the expected impacts.
finally, i voted in favour of references to the need to avoid excessive use of the kyoto protocol's flexibility mechanisms, since europe must indeed reduce its emissions if it is to continue to lead the international negotiations and to achieve a global agreement in copenhagen.
− the range of issues included in the debate on the future of an integrated european climate change policy is enormous and should lead us to seek reasonable, feasible and scientifically sound solutions.
our priority must therefore be to focus on energy production and consumption that is diversified, efficient, capable of reducing dependencies and capable of ensuring the quality of life we want for all (europeans and non-europeans).
we are therefore faced with a major scientific challenge, in which it is for the public authorities to signal the priority of investment in research and development, but also, in particular, in so far as they are market players, to encourage the creation of profitable markets for the most energy-efficient products.
climate change calls for a step forward in development, not a step back.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the challenge of energy efficiency and information and communication technologies (ict) because i believe that ict plays an essential role in improving energy efficiency, with its use estimated to save more than 50 million tonnes of co2 annually.
the potential provided by icts should be fully exploited by member states in order to achieve the objectives set out in the climate and energy package of a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20%, an increase to 20% of the share of renewable energy and a 20% improvement in energy efficiency in the european union by 2020.
in writing.
- we voted in favour of this report by a czech member of our political group because we consider that it deals with a subject of the utmost importance: the challenge of energy efficiency through information and communication technologies.
these technologies can be drivers of higher productivity, growth and cost reductions, without compromising competitiveness, sustainable development and the quality of life of eu citizens.
we therefore support the proposal to ask future council presidencies to choose information and communication technologies as one of their priority topics and their significance in stopping climate change and adapting to it.
we also believe it is important to redouble efforts at all levels of the decision-making process to use the financial instruments available for the development and deployment of new ict-based technological solutions that increase energy efficiency.
similarly, given the backlog in the systematic approach to smart ict solutions, it is important to raise awareness with a particular focus on reducing emissions in the development of urban centres, including through the development of smart buildings and lighting, transmission and distribution networks, as well as through the organisation of public transport.
question no 3 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-1038/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings the council proposed a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and an improvement in energy efficiency by the same proportion.
it also proposed that 20% of the energy consumed in the european union should come from renewable sources.
now, 40% of all greenhouse gas emissions come from buildings.
improving the energy efficiency of buildings can therefore make a significant contribution to reducing these emissions.
in november, the commission proposed a revision of the energy efficiency directive in this sector.
given the importance of this issue to citizens for its potential contribution to reducing electricity and heating bills, can the council indicate the priority it intends to give to the issue of energy efficiency in buildings during the period january to april 2009?
question no 4 by mr burke (h-1040/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: energy, external relations and the economy during the czech presidency in the light of the priorities announced by the presidency for its term of office, can it indicate how it intends to integrate the three priorities in terms of concrete initiatives?
the author of the question refers specifically to the discussions with the eastern partners on strategic energy corridors that can ensure the eu's energy security and economic competitiveness in the future.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the perception that china's economic growth is unparalleled in respect for human rights and democracy in that country, and in its international performance, the exploitation of labour, an incomparably less demanding labour regulatory framework, disregard for environmental issues and for rules on intellectual property and patents, all these factors are hindering an open trade relationship marked by respect for good international rules.
second misconception: it wants to assert itself by sharing economic and environmental projects, without questioning the free trade context in which it operates.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the following is the report by mrs teresa riera madurell, member of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation on the community legal framework for european research infrastructures (eris) (com (2008) 0467 - c6-0306/2008 - 2008/0148 (cns)) (a6-0007/2009).
− energy efficiency is essential if the eu is to reduce its energy bill and is a valuable tool for mitigating oil dependence.
this first evaluation of the national action plans is a benchmark for eu dialogue and a useful tool for member states to translate the spirit of energy efficiency into pragmatic measures that deliver the expected results by 2020.
in writing.
− several member states are drawing up action plans, but there are shortcomings in the achievement of energy efficiency targets.
it therefore seems fair to propose that emphasis be placed on the effective implementation of energy efficiency measures, in particular the development of best practices and synergies and better information and advice for end-users.
it also seems appropriate to examine in detail, in the context of the review of the action plans planned for 2009, the extent to which they cover all possibilities for savings in the area of energy efficiency, without compromising the sovereignty of each member state.
this analysis should serve to monitor the difficulties and, if necessary, take appropriate supporting measures, aiming at the proposed energy efficiency target.
it also seems important to support provisions that reinforce the role of the public sector as a role model and recognition of the immense potential for increasing the energy efficiency of buildings for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and for combating climate change, both in terms of adaptation and in combating the causes of climate change.
the technological development of vessels, fishing gear and engines will also be able to ensure the sustainable development of the sector in the future, by improving environmental protection and ensuring the competitiveness of fleets.
- scientific research into fisheries is essential for an appropriate fisheries management policy, which should take into account the social, environmental and economic components of this activity, which is essential for ensuring food security.
ensuring that the eu has a political position on this issue and taking a leading role in pursuing objectives related to respect for biodiversity and sustainable development of our planet are key objectives that the eu should embrace.
the report also makes it clear that the model it advocates for the so-called 'union for the mediterranean' is, after all, that of the eu itself, guided by the liberalisation of markets (including energy) and capitalist competition, seeking to ensure the political and economic dominance of the great powers.
the proposal for a directive aims to review and bring together in a single text seven separate directives on industrial emissions.
the commission proposal claims to provide for an integrated approach, aiming to integrate environmental aspects into the licensing of installations as comprehensively and as balanced as possible, with the aim of effectively limiting emissions through best available techniques (bat), the application of which should be more consistent than hitherto.
the amended text thus gives some value to public consultation and the role of environmental ngos, also takes account of the interests of micro and smes and takes away some discretion from the european commission, which is why we voted in favour of it in the end, hoping that in portugal there will be greater government intervention in supporting and monitoring air quality.
it is important to reverse this trend and promote local production and consumption and to consider agriculture as a sensitive activity which is not compatible with this model of commercial liberalization, which is unsustainable from an environmental point of view and poses enormous risks to human health.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national and regional authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, the revision of the eurovignette directive should be an instrument to stimulate more sustainable and environmentally friendly road transport.
we have not chosen measures to encourage more sustainable transport of goods.
we know that measures that aim to combat pollution or that stimulate technological innovation, such as cleaner engines and smart vehicles, are key.
finally, mr president, with this tax we are undermining the important environmental objectives, leading many small and mediumsized enterprises to greater difficulties and even bankruptcy, thus directly contributing to the increase in unemployment and social instability in european societies.
the proposal under discussion will allow member states to introduce charges to cover certain environmental externalities and to generate significant revenues to be used to improve the european road network and minimise the environmental impact of part of road transport.
part one
question no 31 by silvia-adriana ţicău (h-0068/09) subject: measures to promote products and services that contribute to energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energy at the 2008 spring european council, heads of state and government decided to reflect on the possibility of reviewing the energy taxation directive to promote an increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption.
increasing energy efficiency is one of the fastest, safest and least expensive solutions to reduce the eu's dependence on energy sources from third countries, to reduce energy consumption and co2 emissions and to reduce the energy bill payment costs of european citizens.
in the context of the need to increase energy efficiency, can the commission indicate what measures and financial and fiscal instruments it envisages to promote products and services that contribute to energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energy?
− in answer to the question by mr dimitrakopoulos, the commission, when proposing the deadlines for a member state to return to a sustainable position of public finances, will take into account the room for manoeuvre available to the member state concerned.
question no 46 by mr vural öger (h-0106/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: opening of the energy chapter in the eu negotiations with turkey the latest gas crisis between russia and ukraine once again highlights the importance of diversifying the eu's energy sources and energy transport routes.
turkey, a candidate country for accession, is a strategic transit country and, as such, very important for the eu's energy security.
it is therefore of the utmost importance that the eu's energy negotiations with turkey are conducted without friction and are not blocked for political reasons by certain member states.
what is the main obstacle to a smooth opening of the energy negotiations?
it is essential to bear in mind that this is an industry, as has already been said here, which is of interest to europe for its quality and value, for the research it develops, and also for the environmental quality associated with it, and it is essential that the commission does not stand aside.
today, in this crisis, citizens are looking to europe for protection and action to help them pass urgently, without serious social disruption, the current critical phase to help them rediscover their future, to relaunch employment and enterprises around new and more sustainable development vectors.
the lisbon agenda and the environmental commitments are inspiring designs, but they must be given substance and action as a matter of urgency.
what is needed is an integrated european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development that focuses on the protection of productive sectors and public investment, through the effective strengthening of community funds to support countries with weaker economies, that is respectful of nature and creates jobs with rights, that promotes public services, increases purchasing power and makes a fair distribution of income to reduce poverty.
- i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the fight against climate change.
the european union must maintain its leadership position in international climate policy and make every effort to reach an agreement in copenhagen that will reduce carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere and limit the global temperature increase to less than 2oc above pre-industrial levels.
in the context of the current financial and economic crisis, reaching a new agreement to combat climate change in copenhagen is crucial.
the economic crisis and the climate crisis can be combined with important economic opportunities to develop new technologies and create jobs.
we stress the points where the european union is urged to actively seek an agreement in copenhagen that takes account of the latest scientific reports on climate change, to work towards stabilising target levels and temperatures that offer a strong chance of avoiding dangerous climate change, and to provide for regular reviews to ensure that targets are in line with the latest science.
but we disagree that, even if only in recitals, it insists on the eu's emissions trading scheme, even admitting that it can serve as a model for the development of emissions trading in other developed countries and regions.
these countries face increased financing difficulties, and i therefore strongly support the possibility of a single central issuer of european public debt at the euro area level, which is the scenario most compatible with the long-term sustainability of the euro.
a fundamental change is therefore needed in the european union's policies on partnership agreements, in order to give priority to cooperation and economic and social development, contributing to the creation of jobs with rights, social progress, the promotion of the rights of indigenous peoples, the protection of their forests and biodiversity, with recognition of the sovereign right of latin american countries to quality public services, control over strategic sectors of their economy and respect for the decisions of the institutions chosen by their peoples.
- i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the problem of the degradation of agricultural land in southern europe, because i consider it necessary to include in the cap guidelines instruments aimed at combating the effects of climate change and protecting soils.
we believe, however, that more should have been done to hold eu agricultural policies and governments such as those that have governed portugal accountable, because they have been the ones that have encouraged the over-exploitation of land and water and environmental degradation.
- i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on water resources in the context of the world water forum, as i believe that there is an urgent need to define global policies on water management and water resources, which will enable the millennium development goals (mdgs) to be met, namely to halve the number of people without access to safe drinking water by 2015. despite the global financial crisis, it is considered necessary for member states to strengthen support to the least developed countries through official development assistance and cooperation on adaptation to and mitigation of the effects of climate change.
its reports recognise the importance of best practice as a factor for generating synergies, particularly in the fields of the environment and energy and employment, and link the debate on territorial cohesion to the debate on the future of cohesion in the european union.
- i voted in favour of the report by mrs constanze khrel because it highlights best practice in a number of areas, including the environment and sustainable energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- i voted in favour of the lambert van nistelrooij report, given the importance of territorial cohesion in ensuring that the european union continues to follow a path of sustainable development and solidarity, increasingly turning its territorial cohesion and diversity into an asset.
moreover, the european investment bank is clearly mandated to support economic and social development in a sustainable way for the integration of developing countries into the world market in the campaign to fight poverty and for these states to respect the rule of law, respect human rights and fundamental rights.
a community budget which gives priority to real convergence, based on social progress and the safeguarding and promotion of the potential of each country, the sustainable use of natural resources and the protection of the environment with the aim of economic and social cohesion, in addition to effective development aid.
the rapporteur believes that the new novel food regulation aims to achieve a high level of food safety, consumer protection, environmental protection and animal health, while respecting the precautionary principle, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 178/2002 laying down the general principles and rules of food law, establishing the european food safety authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety.
- i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer.
this regulation, now recast, is the main community instrument for ensuring compliance with the montreal protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer and ensuring not only greater protection against the destructive effects of uv radiation but also a reduction in the greenhouse effect.
the neoliberal objectives of the lisbon strategy (including so-called public-private partnerships), climate change or the militarisation of the eu.
europe must take advantage of this opportunity and articulate with the us the exit strategy for the current global crisis, upholding human security – and that does not only mean reforming the international financial system but regulating the whole globalisation process and investing in a sustainable economy at the global scale.
and it's also a particularly significant signal in today's environment.
end-of-life ships should be considered as hazardous waste because of the hazardous substances they contain and should therefore be covered by the basel convention.
- european environmental protection objectives can only be implemented to a large extent if they are integrated into the various sectors of community policy.
the resolution therefore seeks to speed up all the measures that the union must take to ensure that the dismantling of end-of-life ships is carried out in conditions which are safe for workers and adequately protect the marine environment.
all these reasons lead us to support this motion for a resolution and the measures aimed at meeting international safety and environmental standards.
− the economic and financial crisis europe is going through should be seen as an opportunity to take measures that will help not only the recovery of member states but also the awareness of the populations towards more sustainable behaviour.
the possibility of improving the energy efficiency of housing buildings by allocating funds up to 4% of the erdf to each member state has a double benefit: on the one hand, it reduces household fixed energy expenditure, on the other hand, it reduces national consumption, contributing to energy security and reducing fossil fuel imports and greenhouse gas emissions.
i welcome this report and hope that the member states will be able to integrate this budget into their national energy efficiency action plans and implement it in a responsible and pragmatic way.
i hope that this money will particularly benefit small island regions, since it is in these regions that energy production has the least means of being realised, thus requiring responsible energy use by all.
investment in energy efficiency is one of the most important tools for this purpose and should be a priority for member state governments.
- i voted in favour of the regulation on a community eco-label scheme, as i consider it of the utmost importance to encourage the sustainable production and consumption of products.
the eco-label is appropriate to guide consumers to the recommended eco-friendly products on the market and to encourage the production and consumption of products with good environmental performance.
as the report shows, the eco-label is a voluntary label whose purpose is to promote, at european level, the promotion of high-efficiency products with a low environmental impact throughout their life cycle.
to this end, ecological quality standards (which we call 'criteria') have been developed for each specific product category.
this brand, and the flower that symbolizes it, can be considered as a dynamic element which, thanks to the constant updating of the environmental criteria for the products bearing it, encourages companies to operate in a virtuous circle of efforts aimed at increasing the overall ecological quality of the products placed on the market.
- i voted in favour of the report on voluntary participation by organisations in a community eco-management and audit scheme (emas), as it helps organisations to identify, monitor, measure and report on their environmental impact.
this new revision is an opportunity to make the system more attractive and simple for small and medium-sized enterprises and also an attempt to get emas to have the same level of participation as iso 14001 (which is the leading environmental management system in europe) currently has.
it is also important to note that the recognition of emas as a benchmark in environmental management systems is in line with the eu's objective of combating climate change.
financial assistance to the balance of payments is necessary but it is far from sufficient to ensure the sustainability of the european project and the single european currency.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the obligations of operators placing timber and timber products on the market, because illegal logging is a serious and growing problem with very serious environmental implications such as loss of biodiversity, deforestation and forest degradation.
moreover, it can be blamed for almost 20 percent of global carbon emissions.
we also reject any attempt to use the creation of these reserves as yet another justification, albeit a mitigated one, for a policy of interference, as if it could be inferred from the creation of a favourable investment climate for the exploration and exploitation of oil reserves inside and outside the european union.
the eu's economy and the safety and well-being of its citizens depend on the existence and proper functioning of a set of infrastructures that provide essential services such as health services, telecommunications, energy and transport networks, financial services, water and food supplies, etc.
transport, telecommunications and energy systems are crucial sectors for the development of member states and are also increasingly interconnected sectors, where some member states are dependent on others.
the third energy package should gradually develop the energy market, which until recently was based on a monopoly system.
the move towards liberalisation implies genuine and sustained competition and highlights the importance of a stronger energy regulatory cooperation agency with clearly independent powers.
the agency will also ensure the supervision of the internal markets in electricity and natural gas and contribute to all efforts to improve energy security.
i would stress the key role of this agency in the future of energy policy in europe, which we want to see characterized by more competitive and diverse conditions, away from the monopolies of the past, together with conditions of increased safety and greater efficiency, for the benefit of consumers.
- i welcome the adoption of this report, which is an integral part of the energy package that was adopted today, as i believe it is another important step towards improving the quality of life of europe's citizens.
shared responsibility and cooperation between member states in both electricity and natural gas are the cornerstones of a genuine european energy market, which is to be fair, dynamic and sustainable.
the third energy package will make up for the many structural shortcomings of the past.
we must also remember the discrimination against new energy suppliers and a certain lack of transparency in terms of prices and choice of supplier.
finally, with this package we can hope to complete the liberalisation of the internal energy market in the union.
the adoption of this third package and of this proposal in particular will make european energy markets more competitive, sustainable and secure.
i voted in favour of this report in the hope that consumers will have a more transparent market, with access to detailed information and the possibility of changing energy suppliers without any cost.
in my view, this report represents another step towards an energy-sustainable europe by allowing consumers to choose tyres that lead to lower fuel consumption in their vehicles.
on the other hand, the possibility to choose a tyre according to its specific behaviour is another tool for the consumer to protect himself and to equip his motor vehicle in a way appropriate to his driving style and the environmental conditions in which he is travelling.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the labelling of tyres with regard to energy efficiency.
since almost 25% of total co2 emissions come from road transport, reducing the energy intensity of vehicles is a very important challenge for the european union.
since tyres account for 20 to 30% of total fuel consumption, enhancing sustainability should be an integral part of an approach to reducing fuel consumption and consequently carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere.
− nuclear energy will play a key role in the energy future of our societies.
− this report assesses the implementation of the 30 ten-t priority projects whose delays have important consequences for the future of sustainable european transport policy.
the various challenges of today, ranging from security to regional issues, social, economic and financial habits and the environment, must be taken into account.
question no 36 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0154/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: research and professions related to the sea marine science, technology and research are of fundamental importance for the sustainable development of marine-related activities and contribute to broadening the field of marine studies and deepening qualifications and competences related to the maritime professions.
question no 38 by mr justas vincas paleckis (h-0174/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: bonus - initiative 169 by the commission the bonus (network of marine science funding organisations in the baltic sea) project is of great importance for bringing together national and regional research programmes on sustainable development in the baltic sea region and for coordinating, developing and implementing them through joint cooperation activities.
− prices and reliability of energy supply are critical factors for the eu's competitiveness, and increasing energy efficiency is one of the most cost-effective ways for the eu to meet its co2 emission targets, create jobs, reduce business burdens, address the social impacts of energy price increases and reduce its growing dependence on energy from abroad.
the energy performance of buildings currently accounts for about 40% of energy consumption and the recast of the directive will improve the current situation.
all relevant stakeholders should be informed of the benefits of energy performance improvement and should have access to relevant information on how to proceed.
it is therefore important that financial instruments supporting the improvement of the energy efficiency of buildings are accessible to local and regional authorities.
the establishment of the second marco polo programme is a major step forward, as it provides the necessary financial assistance for measures to increase and improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system.
i believe that this programme, which seeks to stimulate and support projects for the shift from road freight to sea, rail and inland waterway transport, should have all the conditions to help reduce congestion, pollution and transport which is more efficient and environmentally sustainable.
the creation of a genuine internal rail market is of the utmost importance for the objectives of a sustainable european transport policy.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the challenges of deforestation and forest degradation, as i consider that deforestation causes very serious environmental damage which is difficult to correct, such as the imbalance of water resources, desertification, impact on the climate and the disappearance of biodiversity.
there is a need to ensure greater coherence between forest conservation and sustainable management policies, as well as the internal and external policies of the european union, and therefore an assessment of the impact on forests of the european union's energy (especially biofuels), agricultural and trade policies is needed.
reducing deforestation will play a very important role in mitigating and adapting to climate change.
finally, i would like to stress the importance of european industry in developing technologies that can improve the management, safety and energy efficiency of urban transport for european cities.
the european union is made up of the member states which have nuclear weapons, the member states which do not, the member states which use nuclear energy and the member states which oppose its use.
- i voted in favour of the proposal on the ecodesign of energy-related products, as current consumption patterns have a very significant environmental impact, particularly with regard to greenhouse gas emissions and pollution.
- i voted in favour of the report on nanomaterials, as nanotechnologies enable extraordinary results, particularly in the field of energy and the development of biomedicine.
on the contrary, it is a service to society, as it allows the low birth rate and the ageing population to be tackled while ensuring the sustainability of the social security system.
i would therefore like to thank everyone who has worked with me on this report, including my colleagues and the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the protection of the environment.
- i voted in favour of the proposal on pollution from ships, as i believe it is essential to combat a continuing practice in maritime transport, namely the illegal discharge of pollutants into the sea by certain ships.
i think that this amendment is absolutely necessary to prevent environmental disasters and the deterioration of water quality by means of penal sanctions which are sufficiently severe to deter potential polluters.
- i voted in favour of the directive on the indication of energy consumption by means of labelling.
environmental issues, and in particular energy efficiency, are of great importance and are fundamental to combating climate change.
the aim of the recast directive is to enable the labelling of all energy-related products, including those in the domestic, commercial and industrial sectors.
given the urgent need to combat climate change and the european union's commitment to achieve a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020, i believe that simple, clear and easily recognisable labelling can influence consumers to make more informed decisions and contribute to the promotion of more energy-efficient products.
instead of continuing to liberalize regulations and flexibility in employment, we must focus on public investment, which will boost the productive sectors, prevent redundancies, reduce the average working day without loss of wages, curb unemployment, and make quality public services universal in health, education and training, research, housing, justice and the environment.
i hope above all that our energy will then be better used and directed towards the europe of results, which the president of the commission has always spoken about.
first, the european union institutions can play a major role in reaffirming the importance of the social models and structures of the member states, helping to build consensus on the importance of their universal access, quality and above all sustainability.
fourthly, i think the european union has to play a much more active role in promoting social and environmental standards in its external relations with emerging powers such as brazil, russia, india and china, and this is particularly important when it comes to trade agreements.
social policies cannot be a blanket of loose actions and ideas, but must be better coordinated between economic, labour, social and environmental initiatives.
it is essential that social policy should go hand in hand with economic policy, aiming at a sustainable recovery not only of the economic but also of the social fabric.
how will the almost €4 billion for energy projects and the nearly €1 billion for - let us say - the promotion of broadband in rural areas be redistributed?
i welcome the work of this parliament, much of it in a climate of urgency, but i stress the contribution of the socialist group, which should have been more recognized in due course.
- i voted in favour of the programme for granting financial support to projects in the field of energy.
the european parliament's investment proposal, based on an agreement reached by the council, is based on three pillars: interconnection of gas and electricity networks, carbon capture and storage and offshore wind energy projects.
as such, the proposal lays down procedures and methods of financial support which aim to stimulate investment in the creation of an integrated european energy network and which, at the same time, reinforce the european union's policy for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
question no 2 by mr gay mitchell (h-0207/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the use of pesticides in view of the well-known scepticism of the czech president, václav klaus, about climate change, will the council ensure that the opinion of the overwhelming majority of eu citizens and member states, who support the scientific veracity of man-made climate change, will be respected, particularly with regard to the preparation of the copenhagen climate summit and the forthcoming swedish presidency?
we therefore have a duty not to force airlines to fly at economic and environmental costs that are not necessary just to maintain their schedules.
madam president, commissioner, we are once again talking about fires, because every year fires consume part of the european forest and with climate change and global warming the future does not look any better.
the commission is therefore proposing to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions and to define an appropriate forestry policy, which recognizes the multiple environmental services provided by forests, in particular the carbon sink.
i myself was rapporteur on a report on natural disasters in the committee on the environment and also made some proposals.
we also need an international agreement to combat climate change at the copenhagen conference, an ambitious agreement, and we are still waiting, commissioner, for the fire directive, as has already been done with regard to floods.
if we were to promote actions to clean up forests - and the result of these actions could, for example, be used for energy production by means of biomass power stations of the right size for this purpose - if we were to act in this way, we would certainly be friends of the environment, we would certainly protect it and at the same time create jobs, which is also one of the objectives of europe at the moment.
mr president, in addition to all the demonstrations of solidarity with this scourge of forest fires which every year affects our southern countries, including greece, italy, spain and portugal, it is urgent to take all the necessary measures to reverse this situation, which destroys our forest heritage, property, animals, biodiversity and, even more seriously, many human lives.
the deterioration of the economic environment that has affected these regions, along with others - particularly the outermost regions such as madeira, where tourism is of great importance - has had worrying consequences for social cohesion, especially as a result of the increase in unemployment.
i am therefore supporting the mobilisation of eur 832 800 from the egf following the dismissal of 1 588 textile workers in the northern and central regions of portugal, which should be used wisely to reconvert these workers and reintegrate them into the labour market in a rapid and sustainable way.
firstly, the work of the commission over the past five years has shown its firmness vis-à-vis the member states, as in the climate/energy dossier, and its ability to generate commitments and consensus, as in the financial perspective, with the added difficulties resulting from enlargement, the institutional crisis and the international financial crisis.
we are naturally proud that a portuguese is presiding over the european commission, but our support is not an expression of mere national solidarity, it is recognition of the work done and it is agreement with its priorities, which we make our own, economic growth, the bet on innovation and the qualification of people and the fight against unemployment, the affirmation of the importance of economic and social cohesion, the bet on the environment and the fight against climate change, more security without diminishing freedom, strengthening citizenship and civic participation.
the democratic tradition, the defence of human rights, innovations in cleaner energy production and better environmental policies are european trademarks, but nothing sets us apart from the rest of the world more than our social policies.
- president barroso has put europe at the forefront of the global fight against climate change.
the political guidelines for the next commission presented by president barroso present an ambitious and modern vision for europe, with the fight against climate change and the areas of the knowledge triangle at its core.
president barroso therefore proposes a coordinated and convergent approach to the lisbon strategy, energy and climate policy and social policy for the period after 2010. new sources of growth and social cohesion are proposed based on a new industrial strategy for europe, a modern service sector and a dynamic rural economy.
president barroso thus gives priority to the real economy and its modernisation based on scientific research, technological development, innovation and the principles of sustainability.
the commission, led by president barroso, in partnership with the european parliament and the council, will contribute to a prosperous, sustainable and socially advanced european union.
the energy-climate dossier, the services directive, the chemicals regulation are just a few examples of success and leadership.
the global leadership in the fight against climate change, the sense of opportunity in bringing europeans closer to the oceans through the launch of the new european maritime policy and the ability to generate consensus around the financial perspectives in a europe of 27 are some of the examples that justify his continuity at the head of the european commission.
we have a number of challenges ahead of us, such as the reform of the community budget, which europe must tackle by showing that it is capable of defining the global agenda on a number of issues such as the fight against climate change and the regulation of financial markets.
at a time when unemployment is high in several member states, a sustainable way out of the current economic and social crisis must be sought.
the damage caused is enormous, both in terms of loss of human life (11 people died this summer alone), and in terms of reduced economic activity and environmental degradation, in particular by contributing to the acceleration of desertification, in which in the last decade some 400 000 hectares of european forest have been disappearing every year.
climate change is contributing to the increase in natural disasters, but many cases remain unpredictable or have criminal origins.
the reason for our vote in favour is the need for effective solidarity and the immediate mobilization of financial resources to deal with the dramatic social and environmental situation in the areas affected by the fires this summer and their populations.
i come from an or, the azores, where milk production is the economic, social and environmental pillar.
in the current context of full liberalisation, it is urgent to study its social, environmental and economic effects in these regions and to devise specific measures to prevent the collapse of this activity responsible for our beautiful landscapes, the quality of our environment and our rural environment and the progress and economic convergence we have achieved.
mr president, i have been listening to you very carefully and i would just like to raise three questions: the first is what are we talking about, after all, when we talk about energy security and when we talk about energy?
are we talking about the people, the people who we have to guarantee equal access to energy and ensure that they do not run out of energy during the winter, are we talking about the power relations between great powers after all, or, worse than that, are we using energy security and these projects, like nabucco or desertec, as an excuse to send messages to other regions of the world or to other countries?
on the contrary, medium- and long-term solutions must be considered and the causes of the poor functioning of this market and the best ways of maintaining production in a sustainable way, without neglecting the right of consumers to a fair price, must be assessed.
a neoliberal model of agriculture, which promotes the flooding of the market with products from countries with greater productive capacity, which promotes intensive production in some countries and agricultural abandonment and food dependence in others, must be opposed by a model based on the concept of food sovereignty and food security, on the right of each country to produce in a sustainable way.
- europe is highly dependent on energy imports.
to reduce energy dependence, action must be taken on energy efficiency, diversification of energy sources by increasingly using renewable sources, and diversification of countries of origin and transit.
the consolidation of the internal energy market at european level is also very important for increasing energy security.
in this respect, two of the projects included in the economic recovery plan are of great importance for portugal: the electricity link between portugal and spain, which will contribute to the consolidation of the iberian electricity market; and the link between spain and france, which will prevent the iberian peninsula from becoming an energy island.
the commission and the council are asked to pay particular attention to encouraging the development of renewable energy projects in the southern european countries with great renewable potential.
- i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the external aspects of energy security because i believe that the creation of a genuine common energy policy will be decisive in ensuring the security of energy supply in the european union.
however, a properly functioning internal energy market and diversification of energy sources will also be of great importance in preventing future crises and disruptions in energy supply.
in this sense, i think that increased investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency should be a central element of european policies.
− the european union's energy dependence, the strategic need to reduce it and the challenges to the union's stability posed by this fragility are well known and widely discussed.
my country has a level of dependence that is well above the european average, which shows the absolute failure of successive governments in this area and raises particular fears of a possible crisis in the energy markets.
given the difficulties in relations with some of the main suppliers and the limits in the diversity of energy sources and the existence of insufficient supply capacity, i consider it important for all member states that the european union can act as a bloc in defence of common interests and is able to impose them in a very demanding negotiating context.
i also believe that states cannot escape their own responsibilities and should opt for a variety of 'energy pathways' in which all the main alternatives, including nuclear, should be studied, evaluated without prejudice and put into practice when they prove useful, giving priority to the most efficient, safe and clean forms of production.
− the establishment of the special committee on the financial and economic crisis is essential as a body that analyses and assesses the coordination of actions taken by member states to support sustainable and qualitative growth.
it is imperative to analyse and assess the scale of the social, economic and financial crisis, but also to propose measures to facilitate the long-term reconstruction of sound and stable financial markets that can support economic growth capable of combating unemployment and responding to demographic and climate challenges.
this partnership must be given a boost, as it will be decisive if we are to tackle the economic crisis and the short-term unemployment problems simultaneously and find long-term solutions to the problem of climate change through the development and use of clean energy.
we cannot risk creating such a tight regulatory environment that could lead to a delay in recovery, or to the eu becoming an unattractive financial market in a highly competitive environment.
the new treaty will make the european union better able to combat climate change and respond to the challenges of globalisation.
i hope that we can all live up to the expectations of a europe that is increasingly leading, more cohesive and more dynamic in the world of democratic values, social and fundamental rights, economic growth and, at the same time, environmental protection.
the lisbon treaty allows the eu to step up its role in energy, climate change, science and cooperation with developing countries.
with the lisbon treaty, the fight against climate change becomes a specific objective of eu environmental policy, recognising that the eu has a leading role at international level in the fight against climate change.
for the first time, a chapter on energy will be included, setting the eu's policy objectives of ensuring energy security, promoting energy efficiency and developing renewable energy.
we cannot accept that all this should be done merely on the grounds of 'waste of time and waste of resources'.
the immediate priorities should be to ensure sound and sustainable growth of the real economy, to ensure the proper functioning of the capital and credit markets, to support and promote employment and to protect people from the negative impact of the crisis, with particular attention to the poorest and most vulnerable.
the importance of establishing long-term sustainable public finances should be reinforced in order to avoid burdening future generations.
the copenhagen agreement can boost economic growth by promoting clean technologies and securing new sustainable jobs in both industrialized and developing countries.
a consensus on financing and technical support for clean and renewable energy and energy efficiency in developing countries is essential to reaching a solid agreement in copenhagen.
the international agreement should ensure collective reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in line with the recommendations of the 4th assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (25-40% by 2020, relative to 1990) and should establish a long-term reduction for the eu and other industrialised countries of at least 80% by 2050, relative to 1990.
in writing.
− i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the g20 summit in pittsburgh on 24 and 25 september 2009, as i believe that the current economic difficulties should be used as an opportunity to further the objectives of the lisbon strategy and to reiterate the commitment to combat unemployment and climate change, as well as to create a european strategy that will result in a sustainable long-term economic recovery.
it is through a coordinated effort among the g20 members that we can build a financial system that will contribute to more sustainable and competitive economic development in the future, so as to avoid crises like the one we are experiencing.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- first of all, i would like to highlight the fact that the g20 meeting addressed such important issues as sustainable economic growth, employment and the possible phenomena of climate change that could endanger the habitability of our planet.
having discussed such important issues as the regulation and supervision of financial markets and the sustainability of public finances, i would like to place particular emphasis on the issue of sustainable economic growth and employment.
i welcome the fact that the priorities agreed at the g20 are based on the idea that sustainable growth in the real economy will be the dynamo that will ensure not only job creation but also serve as a guarantee of protection for people from the negative impact of the crisis, especially the poorest and most vulnerable.
i am only sorry that no agreement has been reached at the g20 on the global fight against climate change.
- first of all, i would like to highlight the fact that the g20 meeting addressed such important issues as sustainable economic growth, employment and the possible phenomena of climate change that could endanger the habitability of our planet.
− developing countries are severely affected by successive crises such as food and fuel crises and climate change, and are suffering deeply from the consequences of the financial crisis and economic recession.
there is also a need for greater coherence between eu policies in the areas of international trade, budgetary, climate change and development.
it is also particularly urgent on the eve of the copenhagen conference, when the eu and other international actors will articulate their policies on international trade, climate change, humanitarian aid and development.
mr president, the approach to the problem of climate change has been truncated in essential respects and, above all, skewed by so-called 'market solutions'.
fossil fuels now provide nearly 85 percent of the world's energy needs.
a consistent approach to climate change must focus on reducing this dependence.
on the contrary, the main instrument proposed by the european union to curb climate change, the carbon market, should not only not help to alleviate this dependence, but even constitute an obstacle to the necessary change in the energy paradigm.
experience shows that trading in emission allowances has not led to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, quite the contrary.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the environmental problems facing mankind today are many and varied, so serious that they threaten the very existence of life on earth as we know it, but they will hardly find a solution within the framework of the irrational system that has generated it.
madam president, considering an action plan to support developing countries in the field of climate change is a matter of basic justice and equality: it is the countries most affected and those who have contributed least to the situation we are in.
all developing countries, except the least developed countries, should adopt national low-carbon development strategies.
developing countries will face a cost of around €100 billion to mitigate their emissions and adapt to the impacts of climate change.
but we need a new approach to climate change that takes into account its consequences on security, economic recovery, immigration and even the fight against terrorism.
and let us not forget that climate change requires the contribution of science, technology and economics.
developed countries must lead by example, be ambitious in reducing their emissions by at least 30%, and help developing countries with funding and technology.
- i welcome the fact that the european community will be represented in the international renewable energy agency (irena).
the international renewable energy agency aims to promote the uptake and sustainable use of all forms of renewable energy, taking into account their contribution to environmental conservation, climate protection, economic growth and social cohesion (including poverty reduction and sustainable development), access to and security of energy supply, and regional development and responsibility across generations.
it is also part of the agency's objectives to provide technical, financial and policy advice to governments of developing countries, thus contributing to their transition to a low-carbon society.
the use of renewable energy is precisely one of the objectives of the eu's climate and energy package.
the agency will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of this package, in particular the objective of increasing the share of renewable energy in energy consumption to 20% by 2020.
in writing.
- portugal is the sixth most energy dependent country in the eu-27, which is why investing in 'clean tech' is essential.
i am advocating a national renewable energy project, with particular attention to wind energy, wave energy (taking into account the exceptional conditions of the portuguese coast), solar thermal and photovoltaic energy and microgeneration.
i also support research and development of methods, technologies and strategies to enable the storage of surplus renewable energy.
i am in favour of an energy policy which is in tune with economic challenges and social needs, and which at the same time promotes sustainable development, without being an environmental cost to be borne by future generations.
it is precisely because i am constantly concerned about limiting our energy dependence and i am sure that the way forward is towards supporting and developing renewable energy that i welcome the fact that portugal is a founding member of the international renewable energy agency (irena).
that is also why i support the european community's accession to the statute of the international renewable energy agency (irena).
after winning unanimous support in the committee on regional development, this result is confirmed by today's vote, which maintains the tax reduction with effect from january 2009 until 2013. madeiran rum and spirits producers face permanent obstacles related to their ultra-peripheral geographical situation, insularity, difficult terrain and climate and very small farms.
this is the case, for example, with the reductions planned for the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund, the financial instrument for fisheries guidance - the community programmes of the previous community framework 2000-2006 - or the financial instrument for the environment life+.
we have enormous uncertainty about the values needed to combat climate change.
it is regrettable that other proposals with important social and environmental implications were not taken up during the budgetary debate, such as:- a programme for the development of portuguese industry;- a programme to support the textile and clothing sector;- a programme to support small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing;- the increase in the life+ programme.
this is a matter of concern for vast areas whose rural neglect will be accentuated with significant social and environmental consequences.
in this context, i would like the commission to present an annex to article 186 which gives examples of measures which can be used for the purpose of providing support for the milk sector in order to make it sustainable.
the second note is on the copenhagen conference: ladies and gentlemen, the world needs a global agreement to combat climate change, the world needs to stop global warming, developed countries and developing countries need to join forces and make an ambitious decision.
the next european council has as one of its main objectives to ensure the success of the un climate change conference in copenhagen in december.
the eu must show unity and leadership, in particular through aid to developing countries, which by 2020 will face costs of €100 billion a year to adapt to the impacts of climate change and mitigate their emissions.
this agreement will allow for the entry into force of a protocol to replace the kyoto protocol as from 1 january 2013 and will ensure an effective reduction in greenhouse gas emissions while maintaining the competitiveness of european industry in the global world.
we need more and more common action on the crisis, the energy market and the fight against terrorism, but we also need more and more focused action, not wasted on more taxation or attacks which are now absurd in relation to a financial system which is necessary for the market.
it is also essential to reduce administrative barriers between the united states and the european union in order to create a competitive environment and a more attractive market for all, citizens and businesses.
as a particular stimulus to the european economy, i would like to highlight the european economic recovery plan, which encourages, among others, projects in the energy sector (electricity grids, natural gas grids and carbon capture and storage projects), finances broadband internet measures, bringing the so-called information highways to rural communities, creates a dairy fund as a new challenge for the common agricultural policy, and other community aid programmes, such as the distribution of fruit and milk in schools.
aid to milk producers and the guarantee of greater security for citizens, also with regard to energy supplies, have also been safeguarded.
the european parliament is determined to do everything possible to ensure adequate funding for all activities and policies that encourage growth and job creation and provide solutions for european citizens, including greater energy security, increased support for research and innovation, particularly in the field of clean technologies, the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and the enhancement of lifelong learning.
- the proposals to increase funding for energy security, research and development, support for smes and lifelong learning; d) the creation of a milk fund of eur 300 million, which is insufficient but is the maximum amount possible (i consider it essential that there be a regulatory mechanism and that milk quotas be maintained); e) the financing of broadband for the rural world from the sea available under heading 2; f) the amendment proposal we have put forward to strengthen and amend the ermus programme so that it is also the first instrument to create employment opportunities for young people.
finally, i would disagree with the reductions introduced by the council in heading 1b - cohesion for growth and employment at a time when the structural and cohesion funds are important to stimulate growth and economic recovery, but also because a large number of important policies aimed at combating climate change and supporting growth and employment are financed by this subheading.
(4) the funds approved are mainly intended for restructuring the sector, which for the commission means the abandonment of thousands of producers, with all the social and environmental consequences that this entails; the proposal will accentuate the existing imbalances in the distribution of funds between producers and between countries, which will mean an aggravation of the difficulties for many producers.
we have a shared responsibility to promote common values such as respect for human rights, democracy, stability and peace, but also to find the best responses to the various global dangers and challenges, such as the economic and financial crisis, climate change, nuclear proliferation, the fight against international crime and terrorism, poverty eradication, among others.
i stress the role of the tec in promoting and ensuring a coordinated response to the global financial crisis and the importance of transatlantic relations in reaching an international agreement at cop 15 in copenhagen, including an appropriate financial package to help developing countries combat climate change, both in mitigation measures and adaptation measures.
− due to the strategic importance of the us for the eu and vice versa, a transatlantic partnership should be strengthened at the next summit in order to strengthen the capacity for action to deal with the challenges we currently face: from the current severe economic and social crisis, to issues such as disarmament, the fight against terrorism, climate change, respect for human rights, etc.
the main objective of the new eu-guinea conakry partnership agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the european community and the republic of guinea in order to foster the establishment of a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the guinean fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
the whole of this amount will be used to establish a national fisheries policy based on responsible fishing and the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in guinean waters.
i welcome the strong will expressed by eu heads of state and government at the european council last october to continue to take the lead in the fight against climate change.
the defence of each country's right to produce in a sustainable way is a requirement for the future.
in the name of a new economic, social, energy and environmental rationality, which the neoliberal model not only does not guarantee, but makes impossible.
one of the most important and central areas of cooperation in eu-russia relations is precisely energy and energy security.
i hope that the energy dialogue and the commitments resulting from the next eu-russia summit will contribute to greater transparency and long-term viability of the energy sector and that in turn this sector can help to establish new structural relations between the two blocs through the development of trade and economic cooperation.
the eu and russia are also working together on climate change to secure a comprehensive agreement at the copenhagen conference.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that this summit, in the run-up to the copenhagen climate change conference, is of particular importance and can be an excellent opportunity to strengthen relations between the eu and russia.
this partnership can play a decisive role in the world, taking into account the effects of the economic and financial crisis, the preparations for the copenhagen conference and the signing of a future agreement establishing an early warning mechanism that ensures greater energy security between the eu and russia, thus promoting greater cooperation in this field.
this summit is an opportunity to strengthen eu relations with russia and to do so in a consistent and productive way for both sides, without neglecting the firmness and attention that are essential on issues such as energy, defence, democracy and human rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a consistent approach to the problem of climate change, beyond the setting of emission reduction targets, requires a realistic definition of the means to achieve them.
we consider it significant and revealing that the majority of the members of the committee on the environment have rejected the inclusion in the motion for a resolution on copenhagen of amendments advocating - and i quote - a diversification of the instruments used to achieve the reduction objectives, avoiding a dependence on market instruments and the need to carry out an evaluation of the effectiveness of these market instruments as well as their social and environmental consequences.
the financing of adaptation in developing countries must not jeopardise the achievement of the millennium development goals, especially in african countries, which are the most affected by climate change.
copenhagen should also contribute to the shift in the global energy paradigm by promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency.
this is the way forward, not just to combat climate change, but also to create jobs.
while the industrialized countries must take the lead in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the more economically advanced developing countries also have a role to play, contributing according to their responsibilities and respective capacities.
the new agreement should provide for the establishment of low-carbon plans at national level supported by legislative acts.
but for this strategy to lead to a true third low-carbon industrial revolution, a holistic approach covering all sectors responsible for emissions is needed.
it is also essential to define the architecture of the financing so that it is sustainable in the medium and long term.
the financing must come from the private sector, the carbon market and the public sector in the industrialised countries, but also from the more economically advanced developing countries.
no one can ignore the extreme urgency of concluding a post-kyoto international agreement to reduce co2 emissions substantially.
to do that, global emissions have to fall by at least 30% over the next 10 years.
only in this way can the consequences of climate change, which is already having an impact but which may become the most serious problem of the 21st century, be mitigated.
the european union must continue to play a leading role and speak with one voice on environmental matters.
it is essential to take concrete steps to change the global energy pattern, as portugal and the azores have already done, by focusing on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
this leaves out the idea of a tax on international financial transactions (tobin tax) to finance climate change adaptation in developing countries.
the eu must maintain a leading and exemplary role in combating climate change.
i am in favour of the copenhagen agreement to reduce global emissions being binding.
china and india cannot be dismissed as being responsible for a large percentage of global emissions, while our industries are making tremendous efforts to reduce them.
i hope that the president of the united states, barack obama, will demonstrate that he deserves the nobel peace prize, because the fight against climate change will contribute to the peace and happiness of all peoples!
it is essential to promote sustainable investment in the development of these networks, while safeguarding competition and increasing consumer choice.
- i welcome the agreement reached on the joint draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on statistics on pesticides, approved by the conciliation committee, which will create a legal framework and establish harmonised rules for the collection and dissemination of statistics on the sale and use of pesticides with a view to their sustainable use.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we could not accept a decision which could lead to a further militarization of relations between the countries of the caucasus region, whose energy and geostrategic wealth mobilizes the will of the eu and its monopolies.
in addition, the citizens who use this type of energy are usually the most deprived, so the vat directive discriminates against this population in relation to those with higher incomes.
- i voted in favour of the report on the protection of the marine environment of the north-east atlantic as regards the storage of carbon dioxide streams in geological formations, as i believe that the existence of a regulatory framework and guidelines on the storage of carbon dioxide streams in geological formations will contribute to the protection, in the short and long term, of the maritime zone, if they are intended to permanently retain carbon dioxide in those formations and do not have significant adverse effects on the marine environment, human health and other legitimate uses of european maritime areas, in particular the portuguese and in particular the azores.
- i voted in favour of the rosbach report on a proposal for a council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european community, of amendments to annex ii and annex iii to the convention for the protection of the marine environment of the north-east atlantic (ospar convention) concerning the storage of carbon dioxide streams in geological formations.
however, it is important to ensure that the technology for the geological capture and storage of carbon dioxide, which has not yet been tested, is applied in accordance with the strictest safety standards laid down in the directive on this matter.
− geological storage of carbon dioxide has been suggested as a possible solution to mitigate the climate effects of an increase in anthropogenic concentrations of this gas in the atmosphere.
however, it should be noted that the continuation of studies on this possibility, and its possible future application, can in no way compromise the necessary energy paradigm shift aimed at a significant reduction in the current dependence on fossil fuels.
in addition, both the environmental impacts and the safety of storage technologies should be rigorously assessed.
my question to you is very simple: given the difficulties that have arisen in financing the second tranche of the economic recovery plan for this budget, where does the commission intend to find the resources to finance the first year of the fight against climate change, which will be at least two billion euros?
fourthly, can the commission state how it has incorporated the recommendations contained in the sustainability impact assessment carried out by the university of manchester in order to take account of social cohesion and sustainable development in the negotiations, as called for in that study?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, to ensure that we have serious and binding results in the fight against climate change, there are four principles that must be ensured, and i would like to refer to them again.
the third point is to ensure the necessary public funding to enable us to combat this climate change problem.
i think that the resolution we have adopted here today is less good - so to speak - than the one that was previously adopted by the committee on the environment.
the new tyre labelling regulation is part of the community's co2 strategy, which sets targets to be achieved through reductions in vehicle emissions.
from november 2012, tyres will be labelled in the eu according to their energy efficiency, wet grip and noise emissions.
tyres account for 20 to 30% of the energy consumed by vehicles due to their rolling resistance.
by regulating the use of energy-efficient, safe and low-noise tyres, we are simultaneously contributing to the reduction of environmental damage through lower fuel consumption and to greater consumer protection through market competition.
i therefore welcome the creation of another instrument which represents a further step towards an energy-sustainable europe.
from november 2012, tyres will be labelled according to their energy efficiency, wet grip and noise emissions.
european citizens will have more information to choose the right tyres to reduce fuel costs and help reduce energy consumption, and will be able to make a more environmentally friendly choice, reducing their environmental footprint.
this labelling has environmental advantages.
it should be noted that road transport is responsible for 25% of carbon dioxide emissions in europe.
tyres, as they account for 20 to 30% of the energy consumed by vehicles, can play an important role in reducing these emissions.
- the express vote is justified, in particular, by the fact that this report contributes to two essential points: the improvement of the information available to enable a choice of tyres that is more environmentally friendly and the fact that, by making this choice, we are contributing to greater energy efficiency, since tyres account for 20% to 30% of the total fuel consumption of vehicles.
i would like to highlight one of the aspects which i consider to be of the greatest importance as we witness the negotiations of the new agreement which will replace the kyoto protocol in january 2013. with the lisbon treaty, the fight against climate change at international level becomes a specific objective of eu environmental policy.
the lisbon treaty introduces support for international action to combat climate change in the list of objectives defining its environmental policy.
the lisbon treaty also gives europe new powers in the fields of energy, scientific research and space policy.
energy is now a shared competence, paving the way for a common european policy.
- i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for an ambitious and legally binding international agreement in copenhagen, because i believe that the conclusion of this agreement can lead to a new sustainable paradigm, which stimulates social and economic growth, encourages the development of green technologies as well as renewable energy and energy efficiency, and reduces energy consumption and allows the creation of new jobs.
i think that the adoption of this resolution, which explicitly states that the international agreement should be based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibility, with the industrialized countries taking a leading role in reducing their emissions and taking responsibility for providing financial and technical support to the developing countries, is in line with a certain global balance.
while the industrialized countries must take the lead in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the more economically advanced developing countries also have a role to play, contributing according to their responsibilities and respective capacities.
it is also essential to define the architecture of the financing so that it is sustainable in the medium and long term.
the financing shall be sourced from the private sector, carbon market and public sector in industrialised countries and more economically advanced developing countries.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the copenhagen conference on climate change because i believe it reflects a good parliamentary commitment to the fundamental aspects which should guide the negotiations on a future international agreement on this subject, especially as regards the issues of adaptation, financing mechanisms or deforestation.
- as i have said before, it is essential that a comprehensive, legally binding political agreement on climate change is adopted so as not to put european industry in an anti-competitive situation.
the idea of a tax on international financial transactions as the solution to finance climate change adaptation and mitigation by developing countries is not in my view appropriate, as it will sacrifice the economy (especially in a crisis context like the one we are currently experiencing), trade, wealth creation.
- i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the eu must maintain a leading and exemplary role in combating climate change.
i also argue that china and india cannot be dismissed as being responsible when they contribute a large percentage of the world's emissions, while our industries are making tremendous efforts to reduce them.
i hope that the president of the united states, barack obama, will demonstrate that he deserves the nobel peace prize, because the fight against climate change will contribute to the peace and happiness of all peoples!
− the resolution adopted contains positive aspects such as: the importance of maintaining an international commitment beyond 2012; the need for reduction targets to be in line with the latest scientific data; the call for the us to set binding targets that were declared (but not yet assumed) in the last election campaign; emphasising the historical responsibility of industrialised countries for greenhouse gas emissions; the advocacy of energy efficiency and increased r & d & t activities.
however, the preponderance of so-called market solutions and particularly carbon trading is unavoidable.
this is a political and ideological option which not only does not guarantee the achievement of the set reduction targets, but is in fact the most serious threat to the achievement of the proclaimed environmental objectives.
carbon trading aims to market the earth's ability to recycle carbon and thereby regulate the climate.
thus, this capacity - which is the guarantee of life on earth as we know it - risks falling into the hands of the same corporations that have been degrading the planet, its natural resources and the climate.
- in the context of the copenhagen conference, it is very important to achieve an ambitious and legally binding international agreement on climate change.
in order to maintain this position in a highly competitive market, the work carried out by public and private entities with environmental, economic and social sustainability criteria must be continued.
- takes note of the need to ensure that consumers are adequately informed when making a choice about the purchase of certain products, in particular about their country of origin and the relevant safety, hygiene or environmental protection standards applicable to their production; i cannot, however, fail to mention that, when assessing the commission's proposal on origin labelling, i will pay particular attention to the appropriate framework for traditional products, so that the necessary and desirable greater protection of consumers cannot be fatal to small producers of traditional products.
- we believe that the resolution adopted falls far short of what we believe that origin marking should be, namely, among other things, an instrument for the defence of industrial jobs in europe, particularly in small and mediumsized enterprises, but also an instrument against social and environmental dumping.
we can only have fair competition if it works with clear rules for producers and for exporters and importers, taking into account the common social and environmental conditions.
on behalf of the committee on the environment, i would first of all like to express my regret that the swedish presidency has decided to close this dossier without waiting for the european parliament's report.
that is why i ask you on behalf of the committee on the environment: can the council confirm its intention to adopt conclusions on this issue at the council on 1 december 2009, despite parliament's timetable?
it should be clear that the environment committee supports the aims of the recommendation, as tobacco remains the main cause of death and disease in the european union.
exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, also known as secondhand smoke, is a significant additional source of mortality, morbidity and disability in the european union.
it is also a fundamental pillar of any society, with the work of thousands of volunteers, young and old, acting formally or informally in the areas of health, care, education, environment or culture, making a difference in thousands of lives every day.
in view of the impacts of climate change on agriculture, in particular the decrease in productivity due to water scarcity, especially in countries already facing these problems, it is important to ensure the development of agricultural policies consistent with climate protection and the fight against hunger.
it is therefore essential to ensure that farms are sustainable and that prices are stable, so that producers can maintain their activity by improving the quality of their products, with a positive impact on the whole chain from producer to consumer.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
a fundamental change in the negotiations is needed to give priority to development and social progress, to creating jobs with rights, to combating hunger and poverty, which means ending tax havens, investing in food sovereignty and food security, supporting quality public services and respecting the right of governments to preserve their economy and public services, particularly in the areas of health, education, water, culture, communications and energy.
i would remind you that the fight against climate change, together with energy security, are priorities of the european union which are not sufficiently reflected in this budget.
that is why the report we are voting on thursday itself acknowledges that the council is not prepared to increase funding to deal with the crisis, that it is reducing the appropriations for the structural and cohesion funds at a time when the crisis is present and severe, and that it does not sufficiently reflect, i repeat, the priority of climate change.
so they're counting on the left for a robust, radical, redistributive overhaul of the financial perspective to 2016, not counting on the left to make up a mediocre budget that doesn't respond to the social urgency or the boldness we need to combat climate change.
in the current economic environment, this is an important programme which would have been beneficial if it had been launched earlier, as the difficulties in accessing credit have long been felt.
this is a problem of democracy and, in addition to a problem of democracy, it is also a problem of waste.
a second point is the climate agenda, where the commission's work has also been very important.
i should like to say that in my view and in the view of many other members of the epp, the european union has been most successful in the area of climate change, it is on the front line of the global fight, and this is due to the efforts of both the swedish presidency and, in particular, the presidency of the commission.
the fight against climate change has always been at the top of his agenda.
these include the energy efficiency package and the telecommunications package, the creation of a prudential financial supervisory body, the agreement on the 2010 budget, notably as regards the financing of the economic recovery plan, the baltic sea strategy and the alignment for this week's copenhagen climate conference.
the spanish presidency, which will start in 2010, will ensure the transition between nice and lisbon and continue the strategy of promoting employment through stimulating and boosting economies, as well as tackling other key challenges such as financial regulation and climate change.
these developments, which are occurring at a worrying rate, call for a thorough reflection on the european economic and social model, its sustainability and its future.
moreover, we know that an increasing number of companies are moving to other countries, taking advantage of the low prices of labour in a number of countries, notably china and india, often at the expense of so-called social, labour and environmental dumping.
− i advocate a leading role for the eu in the ongoing wto negotiations to conclude the doha round, bearing in mind new global challenges such as climate change, food security and food sovereignty.
i hope that the result will be the creation of new market opportunities and the strengthening of multilateral trade rules to put trade at the service of sustainable development.
i hope that greater cooperation will be achieved between the wto and other international organisations and bodies such as the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations (fao), the ilo, the united nations environment programme (unep), the united nations development programme (undp) and the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad).
it is regrettable that they have not made it a priority to end tax havens, to invest in food sovereignty and security, to support quality public services and to respect the right of governments to preserve their economy and public services, particularly in the areas of health, education, water, culture, communication and energy.
but there are several indications that the concept of cohesion is being further subverted, whether by attempting to include and finance all kinds of actions and actors that have nothing to do with the objectives of cohesion, namely the european union strategy for 2020 and policies on climate change, or by changing eligibility and management criteria.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need to have a debate on the community budget and how it can contribute to its sustainability and transparency in the future.
it also covers additional funding from the flexibility instrument for the second phase of the european economic recovery plan (eerp) in the field of energy, which has not been adequately funded.
while i do not deny that nuclear energy can be part of a more balanced european energy mix and that its use is likely to reduce external dependence in this field, i believe that the european union cannot fail to share in the effort to close down the obsolete nuclear complex and thus ensure that projects to revive the economy deserve adequate funding.
both the environmental safety motivated by the decommissioning of the kozloduy power station and increased investment in energy projects are thus good reasons for the mobilisation of the instrument.
− the €5 billion european economic recovery plan (eerp), agreed by the european parliament in march 2009, is divided into trans-european energy projects and broadband internet development projects in rural areas.
this funding for projects in the field of energy and broadband internet requires the revision of the multiannual financial framework for 2007-13. the financing of the pree should not have been postponed for later years and i am therefore pleased with the agreement reached.
so it is not enough to say that solidarity is being promoted in the field of energy sources and the promotion of broadband in rural areas to be considered as contributing to the revival of the european economy.
i also consider it very important that, as we propose in this budget, the current mff 2007-2013 be revised and extended for the financial years 2015-2016. i would remind you that the fight against climate change is an eu priority which is not sufficiently reflected in this budget.
i would also like to remind you that energy security is crucial for the union and i therefore welcome the signing of the nabucco project.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.