as a result, europe needs a single policy on energy security in order to avoid future conflicts and it needs to diversity its sources of energy supplies.
it is always said how serious and dangerous the level of energy dependence of the european union is.
it is repeated every time that the solution is to further reduce dependence on single sources of energy.
but we must not forget another imperative, that of energy conservation.
what the level of energy waste in the european union is at this moment is hard to say.
should we look for new sources of energy, should we look for new transit routes, or should we not forget that by simple methods we can save a good deal of wasted energy?
the european union must give priority to the development of a common energy strategy and an action plan to improve the union's energy security.
the union must develop a european strategy for modernising the energy grid, increasing energy efficiency and diversifying energy supply sources.
the nabucco project, the construction of liquefied gas terminals in european ports, investment in safer nuclear power plants, increased energy efficiency and the increased use of renewable energy should be among the common priority actions dedicated to increasing the union's energy security.
i also believe that, despite the context, 2009 should be the year in which our action, and the european commission's action as well, consecrates a europe for all europeans: a europe in which each of the 500 million europeans feels that his rights are guaranteed, that solidarity is real, that no one can be discriminated against, that no one should feel alienated or tolerated in a united europe, that we are all european citizens who feel the same, no matter where we were before 1989.
the use of plant protection products in accordance with efficient agricultural practices is essential for the production of sufficient quantities of quality food, which offers a high level of protection of consumer health and the environment.
reducing the risk and impact associated with the use of pesticides and setting targets to reduce the frequency of their use will help to ensure sustainable agriculture.
for this reason, the proposals for the implementation of integrated pesticide management, the use of alternative substances and risk management will encourage the production of appropriate agricultural products, which take into account the environment and the safety of public health, thus reducing dependence on plant protection products.
however, once the directive enters into force, such spraying will only take place when no viable alternative pest control solutions are available to ensure a sufficient level of environmental protection.
i am pleased with the outcome of the compromise, which has the support of most political groups and which ensures a balance between the availability of plant protection products and, by implication, a sufficient quantity of food, maintaining the competitiveness of european farmers and increasing environmental and health protection.
if voted, the report will be a step towards better health through environmental protection and a means of allowing the eu to move on to a better system without further delays.
i welcome the text of the compromise on the sustainable use of pesticides and i would like to congratulate mrs klaß on her work.
pesticide regulations are important to reduce the risks to human health and the environment from their use.
the acceptance of this recommendation by all the actors involved will ensure the necessary conditions for the reconciliation of the principles of environmental protection and animal health with the proper functioning of the internal market.
as a social democrat, i believe that we must make a sustained effort to protect the environment, human and animal health, without compromising agricultural production.
to reduce pollution in the urban environment and to reduce congestion, we need to invest in public transport and intelligent transport systems.
the commission agrees with the rapporteur that the perspective of eu membership can act as a catalyst for sustainable economic development and for securing peace and stability within the region.
moreover, due to global warming, we have seen crops destroyed more and more often by natural disasters in recent years, and farmers in the new member states are the most disadvantaged in these situations because the level of subsidies granted to them is lower than in the other member states.
that is why, through the proposed amendments, i have asked the commission to examine the possibility of setting up intervention mechanisms at community level, independent of specific aid for crop insurance, to prevent and combat the effects of global warming.
however, i am convinced that agriculture can be the engine of recovery for european economies hit by the global crisis, and the development of renewable energy sources can have a positive impact on the agri-food sector.
by taking the necessary precautions, we can increase biofuel production without endangering the environment or the world's food supply.
the global food crisis, driven by the continuing rise in the price of maize, wheat and energy, global population growth and climate change, has generated a series of tensions and uprisings that, if not resolved in the near future, could contribute to the destabilisation of countries and regions worldwide.
rising energy prices, adverse weather events and increased demand for energy due to global population growth have generated high food prices.
i ask the commission to look at the link between high food prices and increasing energy prices, especially for used fuels.
the agricultural sector needs to improve energy efficiency.
increasing the share of biofuel crops and the use of renewable energy could have a positive impact on the agri-food sector, which is affected by high prices of fertilisers, pesticides, high processing and transport costs.
incentives for sustainable energy crops should not jeopardise food production.
i believe that agricultural research is needed to increase agricultural productivity and i call on the member states to fully exploit the opportunities offered in this respect by the seventh framework programme for research and technological development and to adopt measures to improve agricultural production in a sustainable and energy-efficient way.
nevertheless, fiscal policy should be maintained on a sustainable course, anchoring expectations of an ordered resolution of the crisis.
in this respect the commission shares parliament’s concerns regarding the long-term sustainability of public finances and continues to put emphasis on its assessment.
the european economic recovery plan foresees significant public investment to modernise transport and energy infrastructure.
i believe that measures must be taken at european level to enable the member states to cope with the challenges of the present day: ageing populations, migration, climate change, etc.
− mr president, the commission welcomes the report presented and the support given to our perspectives regarding the ecosystem approach.
this is why the commission sees the maritime policy, and especially its environmental pillar, the marine strategy directive, as key to the implementation of an ecosystem approach.
as stated in the report, meeting food needs, safeguarding fishing industries and fishing communities, and preserving the sustainability of marine ecosystems are not irreconcilable.
scientific research to identify the factors influencing marine ecosystems, including the impact of climate change, will ensure that it is possible to determine the evolution of fisheries resources and take precautionary measures to prevent the rapid and continuous depletion of fish stocks.
as fishing is an essential activity for ensuring food and human survival, the management of sustainable fisheries resources becomes fundamental in the context of the deterioration of marine biodiversity.
for this reason, the social, economic and environmental components must be taken into account in all initiatives for the sustainable development of coastal areas in the european union.
the agreement provides for increased safety guarantees and enhanced compatibility of products, components and aircraft with the increased requirements of environmental protection.
the european union's unity and security were again put at risk in the wake of the financial and energy crises.
we also have another priority, namely climate change, and we must not forget that, also in the european economic recovery plan, the need to finance priority infrastructures such as energy and transport is a priority.
we should not waste a good proposal and allow operational events to overshadow it.
secondly, in addition to some daunting issues that you will have to confront during your presidency – such as the continuing global financial crisis and energy security concerns – you will also have a large legislative burden.
'economy, energy and the european union in the world' is the motto of the czech presidency of the union.
the european union's economic recovery plan, increased energy efficiency and security of energy supply are the priorities of european citizens today.
together we can reach an agreement on the first reading of the energy performance of buildings directive and i assure you that both the european parliament and the european commission are ready to support you in making the energy performance of buildings directive one of the outcomes of the czech presidency.
of the three priorities announced by the czech presidency - energy, the economy and europe in the world - i would like to mention the energy component.
i personally believe that europe needs a single energy policy so as to avoid over-dependence on a single pool of resources.
in this respect, i support the need to develop relationships with new suppliers, but also the importance of investing in unconventional energy production technologies.
i also believe that it is a priority to shorten the procedures for the implementation of projects concerning alternative energy sources and unconventional energy.
given the significant energy savings and reduction of heating costs borne by citizens that could be achieved by thermal rehabilitation of these buildings, and the limited possibilities of using the structural and cohesion funds for investments in this area, i believe that the czech presidency of the council should include this issue among its priorities.
i welcome the czech presidency's prioritisation of the energy issue.
the unacceptable events of recent weeks regarding the security of gas supply to some eu member states have once again demonstrated the need for a european energy policy, implemented through clear european projects and supported by european funds.
the long-term solution is a secure and protected state of israel alongside a sustainable palestinian state.
in order to achieve a normal standard of living, the palestinian people must establish a state based on democratic institutions and the rule of law, which ensures economic development; they must renounce terrorist acts and concern themselves with creating a normal political climate, which allows the election of politicians to the leadership of the state who genuinely want to resolve the conflict through negotiations.
all these disputes combined place us in the middle of an energy war, which is about power-sharing.
we need rules for a free energy market shared by our russian and ukrainian partners.
we need a common european energy policy, served by appropriate legal and political instruments and consolidated by an integrated agreement with the supply and transit countries, russia and ukraine respectively.
you mentioned the internal energy package.
it is different from being on an island, where you have the freedom to bring energy into any port you wish, as opposed to being located somewhere like slovakia or bulgaria.
you need the right kind of a geological environment.
secondly, for two years we have had energy diplomacy.
concerning the bilateral relationships – eu-russia or eu-ukraine – i think it is clear that the energy supply and transit aspects of the new agreements currently being negotiated have taken on a new importance and will be there.
that means that diversification of pipelines, sources and, of course, of different energy – as has been said here – will be the way to go in the future.
so what has happened is really extraordinary and i believe it should have a huge impact on the energy policies that we are trying to create.
you can blame me as energy commissioner, and say ‘you should have foreseen this’.
the crisis has shown that, unfortunately, many of the eu countries are vulnerable to energy blackmail and may suffer from political rather than economic disagreements between the countries of the former soviet union.
it is clear that we need to accelerate the process of creating a common european energy policy, based also on a common external approach.
i think that a report by the energy commissioner is required on the actions taken or, more correctly, 'not taken' by the commission to support the nabucco project over the last year.
we have no common energy strategy because there is no cohesion.
but dependence on russian gas is a common security concern, given that the energy weapon can be used at any time, especially against former russian satellites.
in these circumstances, the eu has a duty to find a solution to secure the energy supply of the new member states.
the current gas crisis shows once more how weak and ineffective our eu energy policy is.
this crisis also highlights what is a must for future steps in eu energy policy if we wish to have one, in reality.
we need to develop renewable energy resources at a faster pace and save energy.
last, but not least, we need to develop cross-border energy interconnectors, so that eu member states can help each other if need arises.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen,the energy sector is a major economic and geopolitical factor; today almost half of the eu's energy is imported, and forecasts show that imports could reach 70% for natural gas and 100% for oil by 2030. these must be the main reasons for the urgent need to establish a common energy policy.
they must base the implementation of the common energy policy on three pillars: the interconnection of national networks throughout the union, the diversification of sources of supply and active energy saving measures.
the eu's energy policy is based on the principle of the 'one country, two systems' principle, which is the basis for the eu's energy policy.
i think that before we look at the non-compliance with international treaties and agreements and the fact that the supplier, which receives most of its revenues from gas exports, treats europeans who pay conscientiously for this gas with "coldness" and disinterestedness, we must look at the solutions for the eu's energy security.
'the current crisis has once again demonstrated that the main problem is the energy dependence on the resources located in the russian federation and the use by the russian federation of this situation in a manner outside normal international procedures.
the ratification of the treaty of lisbon is needed to create a common european energy policy.
it is imperative to promote energy projects that exploit the black sea area and use the energy sources of the caspian sea area.
the eastern enlargement of the european energy community and the priority inclusion of energy in the new framework created by the eastern partnership can also help to resolve the current situation. "
the european union needs a policy of energy security, diversification of resources and solidarity in the energy sector to prevent such crises affecting its citizens.
the council and parliament, through the energy package under discussion, are proposing a series of measures involving the existence of several energy suppliers for the benefit of the consumer, a package which we hope will be adopted at second reading.
this crisis must be resolved as soon as possible as it affects both european citizens and european industry; we need a common external energy policy.
our goal is to moderate a discussion on the future of the cap aimed at exploring agrarian policy instruments, particularly in the area of direct payments, which would enable a non-discriminatory and effective use of financial resources gathered from european taxpayers and spent on the cap, strengthening the competitiveness of european farmers, improving the position of europe’s agricultural and food industries in a globalised and open world market, improving the quality of agricultural products and the provision of non-marketable outcomes of agriculture, as well as contributing to sustainable rural development.
better regional integration would also allow for a more open dialogue between countries in the horn of africa on issues of common concern such as migration, arms trafficking, energy or natural resources, and would provide a basis for dialogues on divergent themes.
like my colleagues, i believe we are at the point where sustainable results can only be achieved through dialogue, and that only a ceasefire can achieve that.
a stronger naval presence in the region can have a positive impact on the security environment in somalia and, consequently, in the region.
the democratic values that are assumed are linked to the stability and development of both societies and markets, including energy.
creative thinking is the key to success in a global economy, as the european union has long recognised, and innovation is an integral part of both the commission's climate change package and the plan to revitalise the european economy.
last year, the climate change-energy package was adopted and the written declaration on fibromyalgia was approved, for which i thank you again.
these documents are opening the door to innovation and creativity in areas of utmost importance, such as health, by identifying new treatments for fibromyalgia and energy, by making new alternative energy efficient.
in the current european context, ensuring energy security is becoming a priority.
diversification of energy routes can be ensured by interconnecting european gas networks, which also contributes to solidarity between member states, a fundamental principle in the european union.
once the pipeline is completed, both under normal conditions and in situations of energy crisis at european level, romania will be able to export its gas to the european market, but also to import these resources.
the european union is preparing intensively to negotiate a post-kyoto agreement to continue reducing the causes of climate change.
member states must gradually reduce their carbon dioxide emissions.
european companies urgently need to invest in upgrading production facilities in energy-intensive sectors to maintain production levels, to preserve jobs and to protect the environment.
i call on the european commission, the european investment bank and the member states to give priority to the development of the union's sustainable economy and to ensure, through the european economic recovery plan, the conditions necessary for european businesses to modernise and remain competitive in an increasingly tough market.
i would like to welcome once again the measures you have proposed on access, free trade, funds, the environment.
energy policy is and will continue to be a priority for the union.
i hope that this gas crisis will lead us to unite in the construction of a common energy policy.
the development of the nabucco project and the construction of an lpg terminal at constanta, an important black sea port, as well as the interconnection of national electricity infrastructures, can contribute both to increasing the security of energy supply and to developing the union's capacity to show solidarity with member states in energy crisis.
i call on the commission and the member states to invest in modernising the european energy network and in increasing energy efficiency and renewable energy production.
i call on the commission and the member states to ensure that measures to reduce pollution from coal-fired power stations are financed.
in the field of energy efficiency, the union can deliver rapid and cost-effective results in the fight against climate change.
increasing the energy performance of existing buildings and promoting passive buildings, as well as using communications and information technology to reduce energy consumption and increase energy efficiency through the widespread deployment of smart meters and automated systems, are strategic development directions in which europe needs to invest.
i call on the commission and the member states to ensure that measures to reduce pollution from coal-fired power stations are financed.
by 2020, the union must increase its energy efficiency by 35% and reduce its primary energy consumption by 20%.
i call on the commission and the member states to promote and finance research projects aimed at improving energy efficiency.
commissioner, i call on the european commission, the european investment bank and the member states to set up a european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund to mobilise public and private capital for the implementation of energy efficiency projects implemented this time across the european union.
the adoption of very ambitious medium- and even long-term targets for 2020 on the energy efficiency of vehicles is, i believe, necessary today at european level.
i would like to stress the need for an external energy policy of the european union, so that the 27 member states can speak with one voice in negotiations with the major producers.
only in this way can the european union obtain affordable prices for gas and oil imports, while guaranteeing energy security.
diversification of energy sources must be a major objective of the european union.
i therefore believe that the european union must act urgently to include in future agreements with russia and ukraine comprehensive energy interdependence clauses, clauses which set out very clear obligations and effective mechanisms for the rapid resolution of any problems.
personally, apart from support for the diversification of transport routes for the import of gas, i consider the appeal to expedite the achievement of internal market energy in the current legislature and the necessity to revisit the entire problem of gas storage as major contributions of the report.
since, in time, deposits of all kinds will be exhausted, i believe that we must invest in scientific projects capable of discovering alternative sources of energy, thus ensuring the development of future generations.
the recent gas crisis has brought even more acute attention to the importance of developing alternative energy routes and sources through the development of transport infrastructure and interconnections.
but we also have our own energy sources.
a micro-hydroelectric plant is not profitable, it is not efficient, but hundreds of thousands of hydroelectric plants from the alps to the carpathians, from the balkans to the tatra or the pyrenees, means energy independence.
solidarity between the member states of the european union in the field of energy must become a primary objective at european, regional and bilateral levels, and the strategies adopted by each member state at national level must not affect the energy interests of other member states and must correspond to the general interest of the european union in energy security.
in this context, the improvement of the community legislative framework on energy interdependence within the eu and the development of a new generation of normative acts aimed at regulating both the european union's relations with non-eu energy suppliers and transit states must serve as an effective instrument in the process of developing european security policy.
the new laws will have to provide for legal enforcement mechanisms designed to strengthen energy cooperation and develop viable competition in european energy markets.
efforts to increase eu investment in diversifying cross-border structures, stimulating alternative, non-traditional, local energy production and improving infrastructure capacity to facilitate connection to new energy sources should be encouraged.
the european union must also take very seriously the need to stimulate the private energy sector in the member states, which is already feeling the effects of the global economic crisis.
the eu must be ambitious in tackling climate change, and the role of nuclear and renewable energy cannot be overlooked.
improvements in energy efficiency are also needed, especially in the new member states.
but i do not agree with the mention of south stream as a vital project for eu energy security on a par with nabucco.
south stream is a competitor project to nabucco and does not fully meet the need to diversify energy supply sources in order to guarantee the eu's energy security.
we find in the report the key elements of the energy policy we want to implement at union level, the national emergency action plans, the energy security clause, the diversification of sources of supply and the maintenance of nuclear energy in the energy mix.
the diversification of energy supply sources, by establishing interconnections between member states, the development of new supply routes such as nabucco and the construction of lng terminals, should also become current projects financed by the commission.
we must all contribute to successfully implementing the ambitious objectives of this second strategic review of energy policy: sustainability, competitiveness and security of energy supply.
i want to stress the importance of improving the security of energy resources.
we need to take steps to diversify the sources of energy and the ways in which it is delivered.
we need to support investment in infrastructure as well as in new energy-efficient technologies to successfully implement the 20-20-20 targets.
now more than ever, member states must show solidarity and cooperate to secure energy supplies.
i would like to recall the geopolitical importance of romania and the black sea region for energy security and for diversifying energy supply resources.
we need to support sustainable tourism in these areas and teach the site managers how to preserve and protect the wilderness.
on the other hand, i agree that sustainable tourism, if done properly, can provide an economic incentive for local communities to conserve the natural and cultural heritage.
a solution would be to open a limited part of wilderness areas to high-quality sustainable tourism, which does not adversely affect the conservation objectives of the sites.
tourism activities should be allowed under strict conditions, such as a limited number of tourists per day, and on the basis of a solid sustainable tourism plan that supports conservation initiatives and promotes a responsible experience of wilderness.
as such, the commission should allocate higher amounts through the rural development fund to environmental protection projects in the european agricultural sector, with the clear aim of financing actions to conserve natural spaces.
europe's biodiversity is the most precious legacy we leave to future generations.
i would like to take this opportunity to call on the commission and the council to reflect rapidly on concrete measures on the basis of this report to: set up a working group on the situation in the danube delta, establish effective environmental education programmes for populations with a direct impact on biodiversity, establish standards for the protection of biodiversity.
given that the commitments made in 2007 by adopting the resolution on biodiversity loss by 2010 will not be able to be achieved, the protection of natural spaces through promotion, development and financing becomes a priority in the context of climate change and the negative impact of tourism.
the proposed creation of a system for mapping natural spaces in europe would help identify biodiversity and intact areas that will require increased attention and considerable effort by member states to protect them.
information campaigns to raise public awareness of natural spaces, the implementation of high-quality sustainable tourism and the implementation of the birds and habitats directives are some of the tools that will help to protect these areas.
this network is responsible for the management of natural areas and brings together all national authorities and local tourism agencies involved in ensuring the sustainable development of tourism.
the eu and russia must first find a way to strengthen partnership and cooperation in security policies and, above all, in energy security policy.
i also agree with the idea that we should promote sustainable tourism in these areas and teach site managers how to preserve and protect the wilderness.
moreover, as rapporteur on the single european sky ii package and the extension of easa's powers, i took account of the need for this segment of the aviation sector to benefit from all the conditions it needs to ensure its sustainable development, both for the benefit of the industry and, ultimately, for the benefit of passengers.
- i voted in favour of mrs laperrouze's report on the strategic analysis of the eu energy situation, as it provides that the future eu energy policy should include emergency action plans, the implementation of projects on diversification of supply sources and new climate change objectives.
− the energy security of the european union is becoming more and more pressing, signalling the existence of a deep and unresolved problem.
romania is aware of both the risks and the advantages of its geostrategic position on the eu's eastern border, and for this reason it supports and promotes the construction of alternative energy transport routes, primarily the nabucco pipeline, but also supports the process of clarifying and strengthening partnership relations with russia, a major player on the international scene, and not only in this delicate sector of energy supply.
as energy efficiency is one of the priority areas for the union's economic recovery and the fight against climate change, i consider it necessary to establish a european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund to mobilise public and private funds for the implementation of specific projects in the european union.
i propose the creation of a european fund dedicated to energy efficiency but for projects implemented within the european union.
i think it would be very useful for the sustainable economic development of the european union.
yet, for the sustainability of our multi-ethnic society, is there any alternative to higher education?
the report presents both scientific data and recommendations for combating climate change, addressing both adaptation and reducing the causes that lead to it.
fighting climate change is not only an obligation to ensure the future of future generations, but also an opportunity to revive the global economy.
i ask that the importance of energy efficiency be reflected in the community budget and in the financial instruments available.
making transport more efficient through the use of intelligent transport systems, promoting rail and shipping, ensuring intermodality and investing in greener cars will reduce emissions from this sector.
i have recommended the development of greener types of tourism, such as sports tourism or cultural tourism, and i stress that the best tourist destinations should be those that respect and protect the environment.
but the climate, food and social crises are also being felt.
i also believe that in a confrontation of this magnitude we must prioritize investments in clean technologies and renewable energy.
they are a solution to the climate crisis and at the same time, economic recovery through job creation.
as part of our european mandate, we have a duty to persuade our governments to invest more in innovation and new environmental technologies.
i believe that mr florenz's report 2050: the future starts today recommendations for a future integrated policy for environmental protection in the eu was timely and necessary in view of the observed and anticipated effects of climate change.
romania is one of the first european countries to sign the kyoto protocol, whereby it has committed itself to supporting the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8% by 2012. i am convinced of the need for these measures, although, compared to many other european countries, romania has low greenhouse gas emissions.
both agriculture and the romanian forestry fund can play an important role in the fight against climate change, which has been strongly felt in recent years, especially through floods and high temperatures and prolonged droughts.
agriculture and forestry are expected to continue to make an important contribution to combating the effects of climate change through afforestation to absorb and retain greenhouse gases and the use of biomass as a source of renewable energy.
concrete measures to combat the effects of climate change offer just as many opportunities for sustainable socioeconomic development and job creation.
these measures, in addition to their beneficial effect in the fight against climate change, will also have a positive effect in mitigating the effects of the economic and financial crisis and may lead, in the long term, to a decrease in the european union's dependence on energy imports.
we are talking about accelerated investment in transport infrastructure, renewable energy, biotechnology, waste collection and recycling, nuclear energy, thermal rehabilitation of housing.
according to the special eurobarometer on 'climate change' in spring 2008, some 41% of europeans feel poorly informed about the causes, consequences and ways of combating climate change.
the commission and the member states must finance awareness-raising campaigns among citizens, create conditions for training new careers adapted to the specific challenges of the labour market caused by structural economic changes, which are accelerated by climate change and its effects.
in the context of the economic crisis, the eu needs to engage politically and financially in the key areas of supporting and developing 'clean' technologies to combat climate change, supporting cross-border adaptation measures, increasing energy efficiency and disaster relief, in line with the eu principle of solidarity.
ladies and gentlemen, any debate about climate, ecosystem, energy, is extremely important, because any major change in these can affect life on earth.
regardless of the causes or the scientific arguments of different groups of scientists, one thing is certain: we are facing a global warming phenomenon.
in this climate change context, i believe there are three types of projects that eu member states should develop and support as a matter of priority: 1. projects concerning the implementation of common policies for the most efficient management of energy and the search for solutions to reduce pollution, particularly in the case of industrial zones and parks.
3. projects that immediately support concrete actions to restore the ecosystem both at european level and in any other area of the world.
the european union has taken a leading role in the fight against climate change, and a long-term strategy for efficient management of natural resources will ensure a low-carbon global economy.
this strategy must be based on the principle of solidarity in order to achieve a balance between rich countries and developing countries that need support in reducing their vulnerability to the adverse effects of climate change.
global warming is translated into poverty, insufficient food and limited energy resources.
it is well known that oil is no longer a sufficiently strong energy source to meet demand, which is expected to increase by at least 60% by 2030. finding alternative sources and making rational use of existing resources is a challenge facing the union in the future.
agriculture is one of the sectors most exposed to climate change because of its dependence on weather conditions.
given that this sector provides food for the world's population, the sustainable management of soil and water resources, as well as the protection of forests and biodiversity, will need to be on the agenda of the long-term strategy to counter the effects of global warming.
the european union has become the main actor taking concrete steps in adopting policies to respond to the global challenge of climate change.
; (b) the development of nuclear energy is encouraged and not discouraged, at least for the next 30-40 years, until technologies for exploiting renewable resources are developed and costs allow for marketing without subsidies; (c) the european commission will give stronger support to energy saving and biomass energy projects, including technology transfer, in the eu's least developed and high agricultural potential member states.
it will also modernise coal-fired power stations and step up efforts to produce energy from biomass.
- i voted in favour of the florenz report because i agree with the recommendations made for the future integrated environmental protection policy.
this report calls on the commission to closely monitor and analyse the latest scientific research findings in order to assess, in particular, whether the eu's 2oc target would actually achieve its goal of avoiding dangerous climate change.
it also stresses the importance of the eu and the other industrialised countries as a group setting a medium-term target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 25%-40% by 2020 and a long-term target of reducing emissions by at least 80% by 2050 compared to 1990, while continuing to focus on the goal of limiting the increase in average global temperature to 2oc above pre-industrial levels, thus achieving a 50% probability of achieving this target.
− i voted in favour of the report 2050: the future begins today recommendations for a future integrated policy for environmental protection in the eu because climate change can produce irreversible disasters and the era of cheap fossil energy is coming to an end.
the eu, in collaboration with its strategic partners, must therefore make every effort to reduce its current dependence on fossil fuels and to significantly increase the share of renewable energy.
with the right investments, the energy efficiency of the european economy needs to be increased and greenhouse gas emissions reduced by more than 25% over the next 12 years.
the eu must take decisive action to meet the 2050 targets: less greenhouse gas emissions, 60% renewable energy and energy efficiency.
− by adopting this report, the european union is demonstrating that it is actively involved in combating the adverse effects of climate change.
global warming is one of the most delicate problems facing the entire planet and therefore requires a joint effort by all countries.
the more than 150 recommendations included in this report cover most of the areas that can be improved to meet the european target of reducing temperature rise to 2 degrees c. to ensure that this is achieved, it is necessary to involve all people actively and to educate them properly in the spirit of environmental protection and responsibility towards future generations.
the european economic recovery plan supports the fight against global warming by allocating funds for the development of innovative technologies, but also by means of improving energy efficiency.
investing in research and innovation can develop clean technologies to respond to the challenges posed by climate change.
although most countries are facing a range of economic and financial challenges, particular attention needs to be paid to addressing the negative effects of climate change.
− investments in clean technologies and green energy, so necessary in the fight against global warming, are becoming increasingly difficult to finance in the current economic context.
that is why i join my fellow meps in supporting this report, which proposes measures to increase 'smart' investment, a solution not only to the climate crisis but also to the current credit crisis, as it has a great potential to generate new jobs.
in addition, the measure will also contribute to reducing europe's energy dependence, a priority in the context of the recent energy crisis that europe has been experiencing.
− i voted for this report because it constitutes the 'roadmap in 12 action points' of the future integrated policy for environmental protection.
the report stresses the importance of the eu and the other industrialised countries as a group setting a medium-term target of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 25-40% by 2020 and, in the longer term, by 80% by 2050 compared to 1990. to achieve these goals and adapt to climate change, funding of around €175 million per year is needed at eu level.
this requires the creation of a climate fund, fed by revenues from the emissions trading scheme and/or corresponding private funds in the member states to ensure the financing of future climate policy, the investments and the solidarity it will entail.
environmental policy must be used as a chance for the adaptation strategy to the effects of climate change, applied correctly and cross-sectorally, to counteract the effects of the crisis by creating new 'green' jobs in competitive enterprises.
− i voted for the european parliament resolution on solving the energy efficiency problem through information and communication technologies, because i am convinced that these technologies can provide viable solutions to this problem.
energy efficiency is a very important issue because we know that the natural resources from which energy is obtained are becoming scarcer and are going to be depleted at some point.
i therefore consider that any technology that achieves energy efficiency is a positive aspect that can benefit society as a whole.
moreover, a state is not independent if it is not able to offer to all communities living on its territory a fair prospect of organic integration into a civic and multicultural society, and if it is not self-sustainable and self-governable.
to this end, the european union and the permanent members of the united nations security council must convene an international conference which should find a sustainable solution for democratic security, geo-strategic equilibrium and social economic stability in the western balkans.
the eulex mission, which has already reached its initial operational capability, is an important first step in this direction, as assistance and coordination are needed to ensure, first of all, a climate of inter-ethnic cooperation that will allow a return to a normal level of life.
between 2009 and 2015, the automotive sector must meet new standards for emissions, fuel economy, etc., all of which add billions of euros to the industry's costs.
housing, or the issue of increasing energy efficiency and the commitment to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 2020, has to be taken seriously.
the council shares the view that the draft revised directive on the energy efficiency of buildings is of fundamental importance for the achievement of the community’s targets on increased energy efficiency, renewable energy and reduced greenhouse gas emissions.
the recent gas crisis has once again unveiled the vulnerability of the eu vis-à-vis energy dependency.
should we succeed in meeting an ambitious reduction goal, while not increasing energy security risks, we must adopt a series of short-, medium- and long-term measures that will decrease our energy dependency.
increasing the energy efficiency of buildings is definitely among the most important of them.
this question of scope is the most important, not only in relation to possible energy savings, but also regarding the administrative burden of households.
i have regular discussions with martin bursík, my colleague in the government and the minister of the environment, who chairs the respective council.
the adoption of the council conclusions on the second strategic energy review is envisaged for the first tte councils, which will be held on 19 february, and which will form the input for the march european council meeting.
so, in general, the council considers it important that the highest priority be given to the finalisation of the negotiations with the european parliament on the third internal energy market legislative package over the coming months.
the council also recalls that energy efficiency will be addressed in relation to the wider question of energy security, the protection of the environment and, indeed, the context of the examination of the second strategic energy review.
i want you to know that in my report i will propose the establishment of a european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund to help mobilise private as well as public funds for the implementation of energy efficiency projects throughout the european union and i would like to have the council's support for this important initiative.
it is good that we can debate this evening on the basis of the statement that the commission, commissioner, has already made on the use of waste oils in the preparation of food in ireland.
i hope that the recommendations we will adopt will be adopted as soon as possible by the european commission and the member states, because we cannot afford to waste time at a time like this when european citizens are being hit by the effects of a very serious economic crisis.
community action should support greater user confidence in the online environment.
greater freedom and responsibility will be given to feed business operators, but this means that if a serious contamination problem with toxic substances or harmful feed occurs, this will have a major impact on animal development or the environment.
i believe that china, as one of the engines of global development, should take full responsibility for ensuring the sustainable and balanced development of the world economy.
the eu's trade relations with china should be based on the principles of reciprocity, sustainable development, environmental protection, climate change prevention, fair competition, respect for world trade organisation rules, including human rights.
economic stability and the sustainability of trade flows involving the union are becoming increasingly relevant to our future security.
better regulation and protection of intellectual property, reducing the social and environmental impact of our asian partner's formidable economic growth, reducing counterfeiting and piracy are areas of action in which beijing has already made considerable progress, and whose support in the future will only enhance china's development.
the current reality in which we face major challenges such as the economic crisis, energy security, climate change, migration management, requires cooperation and responsibility on the part of member states to protect common interests, promote peace, security and respect for territorial integration.
i support the report by mr sariusz wolski, who rightly points out that ensuring energy security for european citizens must become a major priority for the common foreign and security policy.
i want to make it very clear: the security of energy supply, and especially the diversification of gas supply sources, will remain a beautiful dream if we do not build the nabucco pipeline.
among other things, i believe that the eu needs a high representative for external energy policy who enjoys strong political support and has the necessary instruments for action.
the economic and social development and prosperity of the citizens of the union for the mediterranean must be sustainable.
i believe that the newly created union for the mediterranean must also tackle climate change.
threats to the environment are the area where regional cooperation is most needed.
the increase in population and the decrease in rainfall in this region due to climate change make drinking water one of the main elements at risk in this area.
water scarcity, water pollution, lack of sewage treatment plants, black tides resulting from maritime accidents, deforestation and soil erosion must be part of the concerns of the mediterranean partnership.
i believe that one of the main values promoted by the union for the mediterranean must be the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change, both in terms of adaptation to them and in terms of reducing the causes that contribute to them.
to remain relevant internationally, but also to preserve its internal cohesion, the union must be able to create a tolerant pan-european environment.
implementation of the energy and climate change package requires significant investment in greenhouse gas emission reduction measures.
the building sector is responsible for 40% of primary energy consumption.
increasing the energy efficiency of buildings contributes to reducing primary energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions.
next year, the commission will assess, together with the member states, the operational programmes and the absorption rate of the structural funds in the middle of the period 2007-13. it calls on the member states to review their use of the structural funds, giving priority to energy efficiency of buildings and urban mobility for the period 2010-2013. i call on the european commission and the member states to increase the 3% erdf allocation to each member state for expenditure related to energy efficiency improvements in buildings and the use of renewable energy to 15%.
romania has supported and will continue to support the relevance of the black sea region to the european union, based on the region's obvious values for stability, economic development, energy security, citizens' safety and environmental protection.
i also believe that this instrument should also be used for cooperation in the energy sector, for the extension and integration of the electricity transmission infrastructure to the western balkans region.
the georgian crisis and the gas crisis have shown us that we can continue to face threats from the east to international stability and our energy security.
in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs riera madurell, and my colleagues on the committee on industry, research and energy for their contribution to the report.
the social economy can play a key role in the european economy, forcing a new kind of economy, based on democratic values, putting people first and supporting sustainable development.
energy efficiency is all the more important today as we face real challenges in the eu's energy supply and as we need to make more substantial efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
i support an approach to energy efficiency that is consistent with other eu policies, in particular the climate change package and the imperative to diversify energy sources.
i strongly believe that the r & d sector should be supported as it can make a significant contribution to increasing energy efficiency.
the commission and the uk governments should give greater support to projects to increase energy efficiency, whether it be investments in energy-efficient public transport, building insulation, etc.
i think that government resources should be channelled in this direction rather than subsidizing the price of energy, because these projects also support consumers who are vulnerable to rising energy prices.
i therefore ask the honourable member to come up with effective and realistic action plans, to inform citizens as much as possible about energy efficiency and to cooperate through exchanges of good practice, and the commission to support the national authorities, in particular through technical assistance.
energy efficiency of buildings is a particularly relevant concern for countries that have inherited a large number of low-standard buildings from the communist period.
i call on the commission to establish effective funding instruments and procedures for the thermal rehabilitation of these buildings, in line with the target of increasing energy efficiency in the eu by 20% by 2020.
in writing.
energy efficiency is one of the major objectives of the european union, and its achievement is an important step towards achieving sustainable development.
therefore, alongside the effort of member states to actively engage in promoting energy efficiency policies, there must also be coordination at community level to achieve much better results.
one way to achieve energy efficiency is to insulate homes.
a study shows that at community level it is possible to reduce energy losses by about 27%, which implies a reduction in the costs borne by citizens.
the energy efficiency of buildings by insulating them must also be targeted at the most disadvantaged social groups and thus lead to a strengthening of the principle of solidarity in europe.
i strongly support the need to allow member states to apply reduced vat rates for renovation and repair works aimed at increasing energy savings and energy efficiency.
as rapporteur for the directive on the energy efficiency of buildings, i have even proposed reduced vat rates for energy efficiency and renewable energy products.
the european commission adopted in july 2008 a proposal on the application of reduced vat rates after 2010. the sectors concerned are in particular the so-called labour-intensive services and services provided locally to local consumers (services related to the construction/energy renovation of dwellings, personal care and catering sectors).
it can be considered extremely important that they, by unlocking the research potential of all eu regions, will attract young people to science, thus playing a key role in building an effective research and innovation environment.
i would point out here the need to coordinate the security dimension of the european union with the security dimension of nato in order to avoid duplication and waste of resources.
this objective is also closely linked to the imperative of securing europe's energy supply, which can only be achieved if we act together through concrete projects to diversify energy sources.
furthermore, it is not just gas, but all the energy resources that the european union uses.
it is therefore imperative that we diversify our energy suppliers, energy resources and their modes of transportation to ensure a constant supply for our citizens and to protect them from disruption, especially in cold winters.
on the other hand, i believe that we must invest in and encourage research and development of new technologies which will enable industries to become less energy-intensive.
we must strengthen energy saving campaigns, alongside european citizens.
diversifying and conserving resources are solutions for anticipating and responding to the energy crises that threaten the european union.
the arguments can be the poor development of services that can ensure the compatibility of private life and productive activity, but also the harsh competitive environment in which networks matter a lot.
the commission also supports the european parliament's proposals for finding sustainable solutions, including the emphasis on the development of children from the preschool stage, the development of micro-credit to strengthen entrepreneurship, self-employment, and the targeted implementation of the structural funds.
the commission believes that the implementation of sustainable and effective solutions requires the involvement of all key actors.
quality policy cannot be dissociated from the future of the common agricultural policy and from challenges such as climate change, the need to conserve biodiversity, energy supply and water management.
the report by mr reul is extremely important in the context of the current economic crisis and the challenges of climate change.
as a member of the committee on agriculture, i have always argued that we should not underestimate the importance of investments in clean technologies and renewable energy as solutions to reduce dependence on oil, reduce carbon emissions, but not least as a solution to create new jobs and stimulate economic growth.
the use of biofuels is an economically and socially viable alternative for rural development and environmental protection.
at the same time, i welcome the increased attention paid to energy efficiency in buildings, which is a priority in the european economic recovery plan and is mentioned in mr reul's report as a solution to reducing the demand for fossil energy resources.
energy efficiency has the added benefit of reducing the burden of bills on consumers, as the economic crisis is increasingly affecting them.
of course, we must not forget the environmental impact of the new tire pressure monitoring system, its effect on reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
it'll also reduce noise, noise pollution.
i welcome both the integrated approach (the synthesis of seven separate industrial emissions directives into one text) and the tightening of implementation to use the best available techniques to innovate in cleaner production.
the proposed single industrial emissions directive, together with all the options recommended in the strategy package, will improve the ability of the legislation to achieve its environmental and health protection objectives in the most efficient and cost-effective way possible, while ensuring that unnecessary administrative costs are reduced (with an estimated net reduction of eur 105-225 million/year) and that distortions of competition within the eu are minimised, without affecting the competitiveness of european industry.
while industrial activities play a fundamental role in maintaining and increasing economic well-being, we must not lose sight of their impact on the environment.
the review of the ippc directive on integrated pollution prevention and control has placed a great deal of emphasis on the setting of limit values for certain combustion plants and the use of existing best techniques, so-called bat, to ensure a sufficient level of environmental protection.
i supported the introduction, as from 1 january 2020, of a limit value of 350 g of carbon dioxide for combustion plants producing electricity of more than 500 mw, as these plants lead to an increase in the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and, by implication, to an increase in global warming.
the introduction of a limit value would act as an incentive for investment in emission reduction techniques, with all installations to comply with this limit value by 2025. i believe that reducing pollution from various industrial sources will help the european union to achieve its objective of keeping the global temperature below 2 degrees celsius, and the effectiveness of this directive will be reflected in the inspections to be carried out on all combustion plants and in compliance with the conditions of authorisation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− every citizen of the planet, aware of the scale of global warming, can act to stop this dangerous process from taking place.
in the eu, it is expected to reduce these costs by a possible €20 billion by 2010. it is also expected to reduce co2 emissions by 50 million tonnes.
i hope that the recommendations we adopt will be adopted as soon as possible by the european commission and the member states, because we cannot afford to waste time at a time when european citizens are being hit by the effects of a very serious economic crisis.
− i voted for the european parliament resolution on a 'small business act' for europe because it is very important to create better framework conditions to establish an environment that promotes innovation by smes, in particular by introducing ways to improve the protection of intellectual property rights and to combat fraud and counterfeiting more effectively throughout the european union.
the compromise reached for the third maritime package will improve passenger safety, help protect the environment and strengthen control systems.
measures relating to shipping should be complemented by enhanced cooperation between the riparian states to rationalise the exploitation of resources and to reduce pollution from port and coastal activities and along the entire danube.
the commission's proposed texts are a step forward in the development of transport that respects and protects the environment, but they can and must be improved.
thus, if some member states have decided to introduce a road fee, then they should no longer introduce an additional pollution fee.
in conclusion, we need an integrated strategy for the development of european transport, with environmental protection, but without the internalisation of external costs affecting the competitiveness of road transport.
a coherent and sustainable european transport policy is needed, respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
internalising the external costs of pollution and noise is a positive measure.
the commission's desire to charge transport operators not only for the right to use the infrastructure but also for environmental effects, the so-called internalisation of external costs, will represent a tax burden with severe consequences for the companies concerned, especially in the context of the current economic crisis.
i am talking about traffic congestion, air pollution, noise pollution, water pollution, soil pollution or damage to natural landscapes.
it has, among other things, proposed reduced vat rates for green products and services aimed at improving the energy efficiency of buildings in particular.
the objective is to eliminate as much as possible existing incentives that run counter to the objectives of energy efficiency and the reduction of carbon emissions, as well as to create incentives where appropriate to serve these objectives.
in addition to the above fiscal initiatives, the commission seeks to enhance the use of other financial instruments to promote energy efficiency, in particular in buildings.
a sustainable energy financing initiative is being developed jointly by the commission and the european investment bank.
the commission has also proposed the modification of regulation (ec) no 1080/2006 on the european regional development fund, which would allow use of this fund by all member states for increased expenditure on energy efficiency improvements and the use of renewable energy in existing housing.
i would like to start from the fact that the current directive has been poorly implemented, insufficiently implemented and therefore i would like to ask the commission whether it is considering reducing vat on products in the future; i also think it would be important to increase the share of the european regional development fund used for energy efficiency in buildings and social housing from 3% to 15%.
i also think that a european fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy would be important.
sometimes the environment is violent.
these payments will be faster and more flexible and there will be a single payment, which will allow the short implementation of desired projects in areas such as infrastructure, energy or the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
the european commission allocates substantial amounts of money to invest in energy efficiency, renewable energy production and the construction of trans-european transport and energy networks.
only by implementing a good policy in this area can we ensure that gas and energy crises in some parts of the union will not occur in the future.
connecting all european gas and energy networks ensures the principle of solidarity: a member state will be able to import - and export - natural resources, under normal and crisis conditions.
in this context, member states should use the funding opportunities offered by the structural funds to develop their infrastructure, energy and environment projects.
first, funding for energy infrastructure projects.
in the context of the extraordinary economic situation, i would like to stress the importance of increasing the flexibility of access to structural funds and welcome the extension of the possibility of supporting investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy in the housing and clean technology sectors.
the ec communication on the european economic recovery plan of december 2008 lists the areas where the eu will invest in the coming years to ensure growth and job preservation, namely: support for small and medium-sized enterprises financial estimate of €30 billion, through the eib; accelerating investment in infrastructure projects for trans-european energy interconnections and broadband - financial estimate of €5 billion for energy efficiency improvements in buildings; research and innovation.
the january 2009 proposal for a regulation on the financing of energy projects under the european economic recovery plan does not have financial allocations for energy efficiency in buildings.
the field of energy efficiency in buildings can generate around 500 000 jobs in the eu, improve the quality of life of citizens and contribute to sustainable economic development by promoting renewable energy.
i personally think that the current european commission would be a failure if it did not support energy efficiency in buildings through financial instruments and measures, through appropriate fiscal measures and through a strong political signal at european level.
in view of the climate change we are facing, i support the establishment of environmental monitoring tools in each region and the allocation of an appropriate budget for them.
− the areas most vulnerable to the effects of climate change are water resources, agriculture, energy, forestry and biodiversity, and not least, public health.
the extreme weather events in romania in recent years have resulted in floods and drought and lead to the need to address climate change with the utmost seriousness, competence and responsibility.
as a social democrat i voted for this report because the allocated amount of eur 11.8 million through budgetary adjustment supports romania in its efforts to adapt to climate change to remove the effects of floods by carrying out local protection works (protection of human settlements, improvement of the basins through work to improve the floodplains and increase the forested area) and not least involving and educating the population in order to ensure appropriate behaviour before, during and after the floods.
the events of summer 2008 underlined turkey's strategic role, including in the energy field.
developments in the caucasus have highlighted turkey's strategic importance for eu energy security, in particular through the diversification of transport routes.
the document underlines the importance of close cooperation in the field of energy between the eu and turkey, with the nabucco project being a key element.
no contract, no agreement, no society can be sustainable without justice.
another measure that i consider crucial for the development of sustainable institutional capacity in the western balkans is the creation of a set of standards and benchmarks for the judicial systems in these countries to support national courts.
− in december 2008, the poznań conference agreed on a work programme for 2009, which clearly identified steps towards the copenhagen climate conference to be held in december 2009. poznań has also sent the message that the current financial crisis is not to be seen as an obstacle to further action on climate change, but instead as yet another opportunity for transforming profoundly our economic system and moving toward a low-carbon economy.
as you know, as a follow-up to the commission communication called ‘towards a comprehensive climate change agreement in copenhagen’ and on the basis of the input of the temporary committee on climate change set up by the european parliament, the council adopted conclusions on this issue last week, thereby further developing the eu position on a comprehensive post-2012 agreement.
in addition to the shared vision of the long-term action on mitigation and adaptation as well as technology, the identification of appropriate means for financing effective and long-term climate policies is key in the eu’s position and will determine, to a large extent, the success of the copenhagen conference.
climate change will be one of the topics discussed during the informal eu-us summit in prague on 5 april.
for the eu’s efforts to fight climate change to deliver, it is absolutely crucial that we bring other major world co2-producing economies on board.
as far as the climate and energy package is concerned, by reaching agreement on this package in december 2008, the eu sent a very strong political signal to all its negotiating partners in the world.
the relevant text is included in the environment council conclusions of 2 march 2009.
in view of the effects of climate change, such as long periods of drought, the decline in drinking water resources and the desertification of large areas of european territory, i would like to ask the council whether it is considering the development of a european irrigation system.
− i think it is in the conclusions of the environment council in early march.
the deputy minister of the environment met carol browner early this month and martin bursík, who is the czech minister for the environment, is going to meet his partners in washington – i think later this week or early next month – so there is already a dialogue.
there is the economic crisis; there are those ambitious environmental goals.
as far as everything else is concerned, we already have democracy and good governance, economic integration and convergence, energy security and human contacts on the agenda.
i welcome the collaborative platform promoted by this new partnership framework, because the need to recalibrate the relationship with our neighbours is vital, not only to make our cooperation with them more efficient, but also to be able to solve the major problems we face today - the economic crisis, energy security - which cannot be managed exclusively at the domestic level.
there are priority projects that are indispensable to tackling the energy crisis: those in the black sea region and those using resources in the caspian sea area.
consequently, the real substantive issues of the black sea area, like energy and frozen conflicts, are approached either through: the eu neighbourhood policy, where the money is; the future eastern partnership, designed to increase the security confidence of the countries involved and secure the energy deliveries to the eu after the georgian war; the eu’s strategic relationship with russia and ukraine; or the accession talks with turkey.
but, in order to do this, we need the financial assistance available under the development cooperation instrument for brazil to be used to support the achievement of the millennium development goals and for sustainable development purposes.
this is a key issue, as brazil has a rich but fragile environment.
we need not only to develop strong partnerships, but also to coordinate with other donors and have projects that should put words into action as far as the protection of the environment is concerned.
in the context of global challenges such as the economic crisis and global warming, cooperation with mexico will prove useful.
i would like to stress the need to step up efforts between the european union and the two countries to promote scientific and technological transfer with a view to strengthening genuine cooperation in combating climate change and improving the environment.
i would like to mention that this is extremely important, especially in view of the implementation of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
unfortunately, climate change and soil degradation are no longer isolated phenomena, and our approach must be coherent across the union, based on the principle of solidarity.
i am pleased that the european economic recovery plan provides for eur 500 million for actions to adapt to the new challenges of climate change, but these are short-term actions.
i believe that the european union needs an integrated strategy, backed up financially, to act to prevent and combat the effects of climate change, in particular soil degradation.
− climate change is accelerating land degradation and desertification, particularly in the states of south-east europe, including romania.
i call on the european commission to take the utmost responsibility in tackling this issue in the context of the cap reform and to make available to member states an effective set of financial instruments to support the fight against desertification, to ensure sustainable agriculture and food security for european citizens.
as i proposed in written declaration no 21/2009 with my colleagues, the eu needs a special financial mechanism to prevent and combat the effects of climate change.
a flexible financial mechanism to allow for the rapid release of funds, accompanied by a medium and long-term strategy and action plans that take account of the different impacts of climate change on eu regions.
− as a social democrat, i voted in favour of this report to support turkey in the accession process and i ask the commission and the eu council to speed up the negotiation process, including the opening of the energy chapter especially in the current conditions of the economic crisis and taking into account the important role that turkey can play by contributing to europe's energy security.
− sustainable development cannot be achieved without the protection and proper management of the vital resource of water.
i strongly support paragraphs 15 and 16 of the resolution to support local public authorities in their efforts to achieve efficient, transparent and regulated water management that respects the sustainable development goals, so as to meet the needs of the population.
for romania, which has obtained the transition period until 2018, it is essential that investments are accelerated, especially now, when poor populations are the most vulnerable to climate change and also the least able to adapt to it.
the european union's energy independence and the solidarity of its member states around this objective are more necessary than ever.
i congratulate the european council on the agreement reached on the economic recovery plan, the focus on energy and the financing of the nabucco project.
i call on the european commission to find swift and effective ways of ensuring that this funding is effective and produces the necessary results, not only in the energy sector but also in the economic sector, which is heavily affected and threatened by protectionism.
we have to fight against the economic and financial crisis, against the energy crisis, against climate change, against terrorism that threatens everything we have built up to date.
this was reflected in the outcome of the vote in the committee on the environment, and for this reason i would like to thank my colleagues who supported this compromise between the three institutions.
i would like to point out that the amendments adopted in the committee on the environment are part of an agreement with the commission and the council, and they are in the final draft which will be voted on tomorrow in plenary.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that the european union is not a member of the wto.
i stress that the als must contribute to: increasing bilateral benefits for a growing number of citizens, achieving the millennium development goals, including those on preventing environmental degradation and meeting social standards.
in my country, romania, there has been significant progress in the development of the regions, but we are faced with disparities both between and within them, and between the rural and urban environment.
sustainable and balanced development of the regions must take place in conditions of efficient use of the resources specific to each area.
as part of territorial cohesion, integrated sustainable urban development will, under the new treaty, be managed jointly by the member states and the union.
i believe that urban mobility, rural development, energy efficiency of buildings and the development of transport infrastructure should be among the priorities of the member states for the use of the structural funds for the period 2011-2013. as rapporteur for the energy efficiency of buildings, i called for the share of the erdf that member states can use for social housing and for increasing the energy efficiency of buildings to be increased from 3 to 15%.
the green paper proposes that diversity be turned into a tangible asset and competitive advantage, contributing to the sustainable development of the whole eu, and makes special reference to the need for effective governance of cohesion policy in order to make it more flexible.
compliance with eu legislation, for example environmental and equal opportunities rules, is a precondition for project funding.
civil society will have to address areas such as good governance and democratisation, human rights, development and combating social exclusion, environmental protection and sustainable development.
this extension also allows the principle of waste prevention (non-evaluated substances become waste) to be applied and the illegal marketing of biodegradable products to be avoided.
as regards the financing priorities, i am pleased that the current version of the report also includes my proposal to include a necessary clarification on energy projects in eastern europe and the south caucasus, namely that they should be 'in line with the community policy objective of diversifying energy sources in order to ensure stable and secure supplies for consumers'.
i am pleased that european leaders have reached a compromise in the european council on eu financing of energy projects as part of the economic recovery plan.
i'm glad that the nabucco project has survived this compromise and is now a priority energy project.
eu legislation on the promotion of green vehicles is leading to investment in the design and production of low-carbon cars.
it is the legislator's response to the need to harmonise and make european airspace and air traffic more efficient for the benefit of the environment, industry and, above all, passengers.
as a result, flights will be shorter, fuel consumption will be lower, carbon dioxide emissions will be lower, which should normally lead to lower airfare.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
in view of these facts, i have initiated an inquiry by the directorate-general for transport and energy, given a month's time to obtain answers from all the relevant organisations and if the answers confirm the data provided in the press, i will propose a reform of the existing regulation which i consider to be slightly weak as regards the protection of passengers, perhaps with the idea of entrusting some national bodies with the possibility of verifying the application of the community regulation.
i thank the rapporteur, mr marinescu, but i also want to thank all the members, all the coordinators, all the members who have spoken during this debate, because without such a strong commitment from parliament, which has shown on this occasion that it does not want to waste time, to take concrete action on issues that directly concern the citizens and has been able to give with the commission, and i also thank the services of the european commission who have done so much and i am pleased that someone during the speeches also thanked the services for the cooperation shown.
hundreds of millions of useless chargers and adapters in europe are a senseless environmental burden and a costly nuisance to consumers.
i also think it's important to have a consumer awareness campaign, because it's not enough just to have this energy-efficiency labeling on mobile phones, but i think it's important to have a consumer awareness campaign on the type of charger for mobile phones.
the current proposal maintains the principle of the need for pre-market authorisation for innovative products, to reassure consumers that new breeding or new production techniques are safe for humans and animals and respect the environment and consumers’ interests.
my group is generally satisfied with the outcome of the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
for example, we cannot demand that a novel food has no negative impact on the environment.
whether we like it or not, all human activities have an impact on the environment, and such a provision is disproportionate in this context.
instead, my group believes we need to strike the right balance between encouraging innovation and applying the precautionary principle concerning food safety, consumer and environmental protection and animal welfare.
key challenges:- reducing emissions of ozone depleting substances (ods) /greenhouse gases from stocks is necessary because it is estimated that by 2015 the total of these stocks will represent 2 million tonnes of ozone depleting potential or 13,4 billion tonnes of co2eq.
methyl bromide in quarantine and pre-shipment cases) - new ozone depleting substances new scientific evidence shows that certain chemicals not currently covered by the protocol have a much higher ozone depleting potential and their commercialisation is developing rapidly.
the amendment makes the text clearer, simplifies the regulatory framework, while reducing administrative burdens, facilitating the implementation of legislation to ensure ozone layer regeneration by 2050 and avoiding negative effects on human health and ecosystems.
all scientific studies point to the fact that the ozone layer is extremely important, not only for the health of the population, but also for the maintenance of life on earth.
unfortunately, there are a number of substances emitted into the atmosphere that destroy the ozone layer, contributing to the greenhouse effect.
although there is evidence of a recovery in the ozone layer as a result of the measures taken, it is not expected that the pre-1980 level of ozone in the atmosphere will be reached until after the middle of the 21st century.
i therefore fully support further measures to limit or even ban ozone-depleting substances.
we must regard the agreement on energy projects and broadband internet as extremely positive.
including the nabucco pipeline and interconnections between member states, such as those between romania, hungary and bulgaria, among these projects can help avoid a crisis similar to that of january 2009. the use of energy sources in the caspian sea area and the maximum exploitation of the black sea's strategic position are essential to ensuring the energy security of the european union.
decentralisation to strengthen local autonomy, and the channelling of resources towards investment in priority areas such as infrastructure or energy, in order to preserve and create jobs, are two of the measures already taken by the romanian government.
unfortunately, energy efficiency, which can create jobs, is not in the january regulation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the european council's decision on funding for nabucco and its declaration as a priority energy project are the right and timely solutions to this problem.
i welcome the rapporteur's proposals to develop an initiative on a system-wide approach to safety to maintain the safety and sustainability of air transport.
− i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer (reform) (com (2008) 0505 c6-0297/2008 2008/0165 (cod)) because i believe that emissions of substances that deplete the ozone layer must be reduced and even stopped if life on earth is to develop normally.
− i voted for this report in the belief that the ep's conformance opinion for the economic partnership agreement (epa) between the cariforum countries, on the one hand, and the european community and its member states, on the other, will ensure that: the implementation of commitments in areas that are not yet regulated within the caricom single economy and market or are not fully implemented, including financial services, other services, investment, competition, public procurement, electronic commerce, intellectual property, free movement of goods and the environment, will be postponed until the completion of the single economy and market in these areas; the creation of a monitoring mechanism within the cariforum states, with the resources to carry out independent analysis to determine the degree to which the epa is meeting its objectives; establishing and allocating fair shares of the trade facility's resources in advance; these funds represent additional resources, not just a simple restructuring of edf financing, that they respect cariforum priorities and that their payment is timely, predictable and in line with the timetables for the implementation of the strategic national and regional development plans; these funds are used effectively to offset the loss of customs revenue;
in writing.
as members of the european parliament, we must insist that the european union and the united states of america develop a joint strategy on the six eastern european countries, namely moldova, ukraine, georgia, armenia, azerbaijan and belarus, targeted by the european neighbourhood policy, in order to achieve concrete and sustainable results in the implementation of the new eastern partnership and the black sea synergy.
the current crisis and its common challenges – the deterioration of the security environment, the global issues like energy, climate change, nuclear proliferation and the new power centres, the regional issues like the middle east, afghanistan, pakistan, iran and africa – require maximum intensification of transatlantic cooperation.
secondly, on the energy front, i believe that a joint effort is needed to coordinate research efforts and identify new sources of clean energy.
i am pleased that the nabucco project has been declared an energy priority project and that our efforts, as members of the european parliament, in supporting this project have borne fruit.
i would point out, however, that it is not too early to discuss concrete ways of working with turkmenistan and its inclusion in the european union's energy projects.
turkmenistan's energy and foreign policies are closely linked.
one thing is already certain: option 4, which would introduce an 'opt-out' class of actions and give consumer organisations a share of the compensation payments, is not sustainable.
price negotiations between suppliers and traders should allow for different prices on a case-by-case basis and thus contribute to ensuring a healthy competitive environment.
the question is, therefore, which of these two attitudes ensures better management of our common issues (economics, trade, energy, security, research and education), satisfying our interests while avoiding abdicating our own standards.
first, there is a need for genuine cooperation in the field of energy supply, in the mutual interest.
at the same time, the union must make every effort to reduce its energy dependence on russia as much as possible.
in this recovery plan, the commission has recommended actions in the four priority areas of the lisbon strategy: people, enterprise, infrastructure and energy, and research and innovation.
in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy, the amendment to the erdf regulation will allow up to 4% of the total erdf allocation to be invested in housing, i.e.
this will strengthen the contribution of cohesion policy to the fight against climate change.
the report on the eligibility of energy efficiency and renewable energy investments in housing should also be given high priority.
with the rising costs of thermal energy, member states need to include energy efficiency projects in their crisis programmes.
they bring important benefits to both the economy and the population, such as: injecting liquidity into the economy as well as creating jobs, reducing thermal energy costs, protecting the environment by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, ensuring social cohesion and supporting low-income families.
in parallel with the economic crisis, europe is also experiencing an energy crisis.
the measure that allows the regional development fund to be used for investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing will, in my view, have a big impact.
we hope that this will help european citizens to save energy, both in their pockets and in the face of global warming.
2010 is the year in which we will make the mid-term review of the use of the structural funds and i believe that energy efficiency must be a priority.
as rapporteur for energy efficiency in buildings i proposed to increase by up to 15% the share of the erdf that can be used for energy efficiency in buildings.
i understand the urgency; the eu-15 countries must be able to use the structural funds for energy efficiency and i believe that this will allow for the exchange of good practice and support for the new member states.
i ask the commission to come forward by 30 june 2010 with a new legislative proposal to raise the maximum ceiling to 15% or even to have a minimum threshold of 10% of the erdf quota for energy efficiency in buildings.
the new measure proposed in the review report of the erdf regulation on investments in energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy in the housing sector for all member states is beneficial in terms of both job creation and improving the energy efficiency of housing.
meeting the objectives of the community's energy and climate change strategy is a very serious matter, which should not be overlooked by the economic crisis or other considerations.
with measures to protect the environment (by insulating buildings and investing in renewable energy).
for these reasons, i believe that the energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing investment report is an important step the union is taking and i am confident that member states will make the most of this opportunity.
i welcome the commission's proposal to amend the erdf regulation so that all member states and regions in the european union can invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy measures in housing with the help of the structural funds.
under the current regulation, the erdf already supports interventions in the housing sector, including energy efficiency, but only for the new member states (eu-12) and under certain conditions.
given that a ceiling of 4% of the total erdf allocation to each member state has been imposed on expenditure related to improving energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy in existing dwellings, it is necessary to increase this ceiling to 15% so that investments in this area have the greatest impact on european union citizens.
improving energy management could be a direct driver of economic growth, reducing pollution and saving resources so that they are used in the most productive way.
to achieve this in romania, it is necessary to inform the population about the economic benefits that can be obtained through energy efficiency management practices, providing to this end, to all those interested, advice on access to erdf funds on modern energy saving techniques.
this will increase the comfort of household consumers, while reducing energy bills, increasing energy efficiency throughout the energy chain and verifying compliance with current energy efficiency legislation.
this will decisively lead to a reorientation of energy policy based on energy production towards an active energy policy of energy saving, aiming at saving resources through energy conservation.
i want to emphasise one important aspect of these regulations: raising the threshold for investment in energy efficiency in buildings.
in states that have experienced urban systemization and forced industrialization, the issue of energy efficiency in buildings is one that affects millions of citizens.
first of all, reducing energy waste.
then, by default, reducing energy imports.
i hope that this is just the beginning and that the european union will promote more and more investment in energy efficiency.
the angelakas report brings a welcome simplification of the eligibility conditions for energy efficiency and renewable energy investments in housing.
amending article 7 of the erdf regulation to allow all eu member states to invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy measures in housing with the structural funds is a welcome step not only in the context of the current economic crisis.
the accession of the eu-27 to the erdf was another step towards achieving the target of 20% of europe's energy coming from renewable sources by 2020. with eu accession, renewable energy and energy efficiency have also become mandatory targets in romania.
efforts to resolve the frozen conflicts in the area, particularly in transnistria, are urgently needed, and the european union must find concrete and viable solutions for the development of alternative energy routes to the black sea.
for this reason, increased attention must be paid to all aspects related to strengthening the energy security of the european union.
we need an integrated european development strategy in the danube basin for economic development, transport infrastructure and environmental protection.
i also want to draw attention to the implications for labour mobility of the difficult integration of the children of those working abroad into a foreign educational environment.
the better the conditions for early integration into a foreign educational environment, the greater their chances of success in school and the labour market.
reducing energy consumption and managing resources efficiently are now fundamental principles for a considerable number of socioeconomic actors.
since 1993, when the community environmental management and audit scheme was introduced, some 4 200 organisations have been registered under the scheme.
i believe it is necessary to strengthen this system by increasing the number of organisations applying it and its recognition as a benchmark environmental system.
the romanian parliament palace consumes the energy of a city of 20,000 people.
the special attention paid to small organisations such as smes and local authorities is, in my view, an important step towards extending environmental performance to the widest possible scale.
although emas has yet to prove its viability and effectiveness, i support its continuation for as long as necessary, with the primary aim of maintaining the integrity of the environment.
the information on the eco-label should relate to the energy performance of products and be easy to understand and should be based on scientific evidence.
yet it turns out that when this possibility suddenly appears, this wide range of products and goods, that the proportion of people in society who are sensitive to the quality of food, the quality of products, the quality of water, the quality of air, is expanding, and that it is very important whether europe can provide these consumers with information about what the impacts on the environment, health, climate, on sustainable development in other areas, for example, outside the european union, are of the consumption of which products of which goods.
i believe that the products and foods that are so much discussed in the debate will be included quickly, and i believe that this will actually enable the citizens of the european union to actively contribute to the protection of the environment through their own consumer choice, and that this will give the citizens the opportunity to feel better and to feel better about being actively involved in the protection of the environment themselves, each and every one of them.
with this revised emas, participating companies will have a clear benefit, as through their environmental reports they will be able to showcase their environmental performance to consumers, the public, as well as to other companies and inspectors and auditors.
the text of the eco-label regulation, thanks to the amendments proposed by parliament, has been further improved from an environmental point of view and is now more accessible to businesses.
the amendments by parliament also played a very important role in ensuring the credibility of the brand among consumers and environmental organisations.
the revised eco-label will be more flexible, allowing criteria to be developed at a later stage for the inclusion of even more products and services, in particular from product categories with significant environmental impacts and therefore with great potential for improvement.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental label is recognised by consumers and businesses throughout the european union.
with today's revision proposal, emas and the eco-label can become benchmarks for good environmental management and good environmental performance of products.
in relation to the ecolabel regulation's relationship to upcoming fisheries legislation independently of the adoption of the ecolabel regulation, the commission confirms that it intends to propose a regulation on the eco-labelling of fishery products before the end of this year to be mainly based on criteria for sustainable fishing.
the eco-label is voluntary and aims to promote the spread of products with high efficiency and low environmental impact throughout their life cycle at european level.
the credibility of the eco-label certification system requires:- the general principle of consumer health and environmental protection to be applied even to labelled products; - promotion activities: improving consumer information, launching awareness campaigns to maintain confidence in the eco-label, using european funds; - giving special attention to smes.
it is in their interest and in their future that reintegration be free from the difficulties inherent in a change of school environment.
- commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, buildings are responsible for 40% of primary energy consumption and 40% of greenhouse gas emissions.
therefore, taking urgent action to improve the energy performance of buildings is the safest, fastest and least costly way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
however, the increase in the energy performance of buildings also has a huge potential for the union's economic recovery, by creating over 250 000 new jobs, by the necessary investments to promote renewable energy and energy efficient buildings and, not least, by improving the quality of life of european citizens by reducing the value of utility bills.
the commission's new proposal to amend the existing directive provides for the abolition of the 1000 m2 threshold, the establishment of minimum energy performance requirements for buildings and a process of convergence between the minimum requirements set at national level, the promotion of buildings that produce locally an amount of energy from renewable sources equal to the primary energy used, the financing from public sources only of the construction of buildings that meet minimum energy performance requirements.
parliament introduced important amendments such as: extending the scope of the directive to include central heating and cooling systems, increasing the role and standardising the format of energy performance certificates for buildings, establishing a common methodology for setting minimum energy performance requirements, implementing the recommendations of the energy performance certificate for public institutions during its validity, new provisions on consumer information, training of auditors and experts, and granting, from 2019, building permits for buildings that produce local renewable energy at least as much as conventional energy, and introducing new provisions on inspections of heating or cooling installations.
although the energy performance of buildings directive has been in place since 2002, its implementation in the various member states is not satisfactory.
the european parliament has therefore proposed to finance measures on the energy performance of buildings from the european regional development fund, to create a european energy performance fund for buildings and to promote renewable energy through the contribution of the eib, the european commission and the member states, to use a reduced vat rate for energy efficiency services and products in buildings, to develop national programmes to support the energy efficiency of buildings through the adoption of financial instruments and specific tax measures.
functional markets where new entrants have the opportunity to make energy services available to citizens will provide a beneficial alternative for consumers.
freedom of choice will allow consumers to actively participate in the fight against climate change by choosing suppliers that offer renewable or low-carbon energy.
another way in which citizens will benefit from the liberalisation of the energy sector is through the security of energy supply.
secondly, i welcome the decision to set up the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and i would like to inform the european parliament that romania has submitted its candidature to host this agency.
- ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend the energy performance of buildings directive is one of the most important measures parliament has adopted, both for improving the quality of life of european citizens and for the economic recovery of the union.
i personally think that an increase of up to 15% of the share of the european regional development fund that can be used by member states to finance the energy performance of housing is a necessity.
commissioner, i hope you will continue to support including the introduction of a minimum quota from the european development fund, at least in the future, for energy efficiency in buildings.
we need to give consumers the guarantee that they are not fuelling the environmental degradation by accidentally buying illegally harvested timber products.
thirdly, it is about adapting the rules on publication and information to the new realities of using the internet, to make full use of these new means of communication, but also to convey a message about protecting the environment.
if we want to be more efficient, it is better to put our energy into being constructive, and i think it is fair to say that what happened with the package we discussed today is proof of this.
i particularly appreciate the concrete measures proposed to reduce the administrative burden that unnecessarily hampers economic activities in the european business environment.
the commission would like to make the following statement: ‘to support the essential requirements included in section 2.4 of annex i, the commission will mandate cen to develop harmonised standards for each category of machinery for pesticide application, based on the best available techniques for preventing unintended exposure of the environment to pesticides.
− it is recognised that the use of pesticides poses a threat to both human health and the environment.
the 'thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides' aims to reduce the risks to human health and the environment from the use of pesticides.
harmonisation of environmental protection requirements and conformity assessment procedures for technical equipment for pesticide application is a necessary condition for achieving the same level of environmental protection throughout the eu, for ensuring fair competition between producers and for facilitating the free movement of such products within the community.
the correct design and construction of these equipment plays a significant role in reducing the negative impact of pesticides on human health and the environment.
due to their higher efficiency, sprayers complying with the new environmental requirements consume less pesticide and reduce losses during mixing, loading, spraying and cleaning operations, resulting in savings for users that will offset any increase in the price of certain spraying equipment.
not least important, better relations with turkmenistan will be a step further into strengthening energy security for europe.
i believe that a balance must be struck between the rights of passengers and the obligations of carriers, so that neither of them becomes a brake on the sustainable development of the maritime and inland waterway transport sector.
this is a citizen-centred approach, in its dual role of being a worker - by creating new jobs - and a beneficiary of transport services and environmental improvements.
in this way, local authorities, who are directly responsible in this area, will have both the opportunity and the interest to strengthen their collaboration with all actors interested in the sustainable development of transport at local and regional level.
it is therefore time to move from recommendations to concrete actions to reap the benefits of the implementation of intelligent transport systems: the benefits can be in terms of road safety, reducing congestion and improving the environmental impact of the road system.
- i voted in favour of mrs ticău's report because i believe that improving the energy performance of buildings is essential for protecting the environment, but also for reducing the energy losses suffered by citizens.
at the same time, european citizens do not have to bear all the costs of energy upgrading of buildings themselves.
the eu and the member states must provide the necessary financial means to this end, such as: the creation by 2014 of an energy efficiency fund, funded from the community budget, the european investment bank (eib) and the member states, to promote public and private investment in projects to improve the energy efficiency of buildings; reductions in value added tax (vat) on goods and services related to energy efficiency and renewable energy; the extension of eligibility criteria for financing from the european regional development fund (erdf) the energy modernisation of buildings, not just housing; direct public expenditure; grants and loan guarantees; social aid.
the mission concluded that the elections had taken place in a pluralistic environment, that a distinct political choice had been on offer for the voters and that a number of international standards for democratic elections had been met.
the history of what has become the european union is concrete proof that dialogue and cooperation and the rule of law can yield a coherent and sustainable mix of respect for fundamental freedoms, political stability and economic prosperity.
however, i am pleased that despite these challenges we managed to reach a compromise that confirms the basic principles of the commission’s proposal, such as the extension of the scope to energy-related products, but also brings more clarifications and more emphasis on all relevant environmental parameters.
thus, the compromise improves the definition of ‘energy-related products’ by clarifying which products could be covered by implementing measures, such as window-insulation materials or some water-using products like showerheads or taps.
first, they will be subject to specific impact assessment, and implementing measures will be developed only for those products that have significant environmental impact, have significant potential for improvement and are not covered by other legislation that can achieve the same objectives more quickly and with less expense.
in times of narrowing natural resources, we must not only aim at energy efficiency but at optimising the use of resources as a whole.
furthermore, we must try to reduce the environmental impact of our products not only during their use phase, but also through their entire life cycle, from raw-material selection to manufacturing, packaging, use and end of life.
even if for now the directive is extended only to energy-related products, we should be prepared for a further extension to all products in the future.
both the committee on the environment and the committee on industry have demanded a clear commitment to extend the scope of the directive beyond energy-related products after its review in 2012. in response, the commission committed itself to adopting the current methodology, if needed, with a view to a further extension of the scope to all products.
in this sense, i believe we missed the opportunity to do more for the environment with less bureaucracy.
by building a low-carbon and resource-efficient economy we can give a new impetus to competitiveness.
even though my vision of extending eco-design requirements to all products is not shared by all my colleagues, i strongly believe that only by shifting to cleaner goods can we stop environmental degradation.
more than 80% of all environmental impacts of a product are determined during product design.
an improved product design would avoid waste and provide consumers with more efficient, more reliable and longer-lasting products.
extending the eco-design requirements to energy-related products such as windows or water taps is the first step towards a more ambitious approach and a sustainable product policy at eu level.
i hope you will endorse this compromise agreement as a way forward and you will continue keeping up the pressure to optimise the full potential for environmental improvement and stimulate the design of eco-friendlier products.
it essentially extends the scope of the existing ecodesign directive on energy-related products currently covered to all energy-related products.
it is an important step towards the third industrial revolution in europe, towards the transformation of our european economies into low-carbon economies.
the european product of the future, marked by a made in europe, looks like it is the most innovative, the safest and at the same time the most energy-efficient and resource-saving product.
i am convinced that european leadership in energy efficiency and resource efficiency is not only good for the environment but also for jobs.
it has worked in the past, and we are seeing good results when it comes to products powered by energy.
the directive creates a framework for setting ecodesign requirements which take account of the actual environmental impact of a product throughout its life cycle.
the current directive is already making a major contribution to achieving european reduction targets, for example by phasing out lamps, boilers and many other low-energy consumer goods.
the extension of the scope to all energy-related products has significant potential for further reducing energy consumption and thus co2 emissions.
to repeat, all products relevant to energy consumption are now covered by the directive.
increasing the proportion of double-glazed windows alone can bring about 30% additional energy savings by 2020. that would mean a saving of 55,000 gigawatt hours.
by 2012, the commission also intends to examine, in accordance with article 21, whether it is appropriate to extend the scope of the directive to include products that are not relevant to energy consumption but to conservation of resources.
the rapid adoption of the proposal at first reading will enable the commission to implement the sustainable industrial policy and to start working on further concrete steps to save energy and reduce co2 emissions without losing time.
the controversy in this debate is not about energy efficiency.
i think everyone agreed that the commission's proposal will lead to a major step forward in improving energy efficiency, saving energy and thus reducing greenhouse gases.
this is a proposal in the context of our climate and energy policy.
i think i have made it quite clear in what i have said here that the integrated product policy which the commission is pursuing links energy efficiency and conservation of resources.
i would therefore point out that, in the case of implementing measures, the annex 1 directive already covers all environmental characteristics throughout the life cycle of the product - including resource efficiency and not only energy efficiency - and that the commission takes these factors into account when determining the ecodesign parameters to be regulated in the implementing measures, using a methodology specifically developed for the ecodesign of energy-based products.
but we have made it clear where we are going and i am quite sure that the next time we look at this directive, the focus will no longer be on energy efficiency but on conservation of resources.
i would be very grateful if, in the present situation, we could do what is reasonably possible today; if we could do together now what really makes a significant, sustainable contribution to reducing energy consumption and thus to achieving our goal of making europe the world leader in energy efficiency and co2 reduction.
the commission's statement on the csibi report (a6-0096/2009) is as follows: the commission declares that adoption of the proposed extension of the directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-related products will not affect the implementation of the work programme currently established.
in addition, the commission will, when assessing the appropriateness of extending the scope of the directive to non-energy related products in accordance with article 21, consider the need for adapting the methodology for identifying and addressing significant environmental parameters for such products.
from my point of view i think that we have succeeded in finding a good middle way in this proposal and in finding a way of dealing with this package which will not overburden european industry but also will help us attain a more energy-efficient and resource-efficient european industry.
the current financial crisis only reinforces the eu's responsibility to honour its energy and environmental commitments.
eco-design) are needed to make the way we consume and produce in europe more sustainable, without imposing additional costs on businesses and citizens.
the new concept aims to 'eliminate the environmental impact from the product and the production process'.
about 80% of the environmental impact and life-cycle costs of a product can be determined in the design phase.
informing consumers about energy and resource efficiency should become a key element in their decisions.
improving energy efficiency is the fastest and least expensive way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
as the european union has recognised in the sixth community environment action programme that there is a need for a more substantial reduction in the environmental and health impacts of pesticides, the regulation on statistics on plant protection products fills the gaps in the use of pesticides in the member states.
outbreaks can also have negative consequences for the environment: disposal of carcasses and biodiversity.
i voted in favour of this report by mrs beer and i would like to stress that the importance of this document is precisely due to the obvious need to increase the use of nuclear energy for civilian purposes.
we are well aware of the problems that come with a lack of energy independence, and we are equally well aware of the contribution of nuclear energy as clean energy to the fight against global warming.
today, the only form of clean energy production on a large scale is nuclear, and i hope that we will have the framework to use it safely to meet the needs of developing economies and european citizens.
i too would like to congratulate my colleague from grandes pascual and to mention that, indeed, the pollution of the seas must be a subject we discuss more often.
it is clear that shipping is unfortunately responsible for some of this pollution and this directive is really about dealing with illegal dumping of ships, which has been committed either through negligence, bad faith or recklessness.
in essence, the directive harmonises the definition of pollution caused by ships, whether by natural or legal persons, the scope of their liability and the criminal nature of the penalties which may be applied in the case of such offences committed by natural persons.
i would like to mention that a coherent set of legislative measures has already been adopted at european level to enhance maritime safety and prevent pollution from ships.
− madam president, energy labelling is something we started in 1992 with the goal of achieving energy savings for products in the household sector.
some time has passed since then, and the commission decided to bring forward a proposal for recasting the energy labelling directive, intending to bring further benefits to european citizens, industry and public authorities alike, firstly by extending its scope to all energy-related products, secondly by strengthening market surveillance, and thirdly by encouraging energy-efficient public procurement and incentive practices.
i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all the members of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) for having given this proposal careful consideration.
the first is the issue of advertising and how far we can go to promote energy-efficient product selling practices without hampering the role of civil liberties or freedom of the press, and the second is the issue of the layout of the label – whether it should be a closed label or an open-ended scale label.
we have, on the one side, consumer organisations, and on the other side producers, who would also like to follow the same goal of providing more energy-efficient products to consumers.
the directive on labelling and consumer information on the energy consumption of products is a very important element in my view.
the european union has set itself the objective of reducing energy consumption by 20%, and if we can inform consumers correctly so that they can make an informed choice, then we can indeed reduce energy consumption in the products we use.
therefore, i believe it is important to mention on the label the elements related to energy consumption or energy savings that could be achieved.
i do not think that the obligation to provide information on energy consumption in any way impedes freedom of expression and media provisions.
i think we all have an interest in having a well-informed consumer who can make an informed decision to reduce energy consumption.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the document is extremely important, it is part of an energy efficiency package and i still support an interesting debate during the second reading.
- i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the indication by labelling and standard product information of the consumption of energy and other resources by energy-related products (reform).
i believe that better information on the energy efficiency of products is needed.
any advertising promoting the technical specifications of household refrigerators, washing machines or ovens shall indicate the energy consumption of the product.
energy labelling helps consumers to assess their energy costs when purchasing electrical household products such as refrigerators, washing machines or clothes, dryers or ovens.
manufacturers are obliged to indicate energy consumption, regardless of whether products are 'more energy efficient' (green) or 'less energy efficient' (red).
the labelling will also apply to energy-intensive products for commercial and industrial use, such as cold rooms or cold showcases.
advertising shall indicate energy consumption and energy savings.
member states may adopt incentive measures, including tax credits for highly energy efficient products.
but this requires political will, and that political will has as its keywords: active inclusion, jobs, the intelligent division of labour, education, equal treatment and pay, sustainable and green development.
this document is important as interconnection of energy infrastructure must be a priority.
as regards the energy efficiency of buildings, compared with the commission's communication in october, which provided for eur 5 billion for this subject, we find no resources in this document either.
- i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme to assist economic recovery by granting community financial assistance for energy projects.
the european economic recovery plan foresees investments of €5 billion in energy projects, broadband internet and rural development measures.
eur 3.98 billion will be invested in infrastructure for electricity, natural gas, wind energy, carbon capture/storage.
this plan is essential for the sustainable development of the air transport sector, a vital sector for the european economy.
we also have investment projects for the energy sector already approved of that amount of about three billion euros and we will have to take concrete steps in implementing these projects.
the homeland of prosperity, security and freedom is a country where the issues of human rights and freedoms are as important as the economic and climate change concerns.
the eu is facing huge challenges today: the economic and financial crisis, alarming unemployment and climate change.
increasing energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and increasing the eu's energy security are among the priorities of the swedish presidency.
i think, especially in this period, we need to invest in education, in research, in energy efficiency and especially in people.
i want to express my conviction that maintaining a sustainable agricultural sector with the appropriate budget after 2013 would solve this problem, giving farmers a medium and long-term perspective and sufficient funds, so that romanian agriculture aligns with european standards, becomes an opportunity for a united europe.
mr president, personally i think that the time has come to make a shift in our approach to energy problems, namely by gradually shifting the emphasis from ‘energy security’ – that is, trying to secure our current deliveries from volatile suppliers – to ‘secure energy’, meaning the full exploitation of the energy sources firmly under the eu control.
because, indeed, if europe really wants to become a truly credible international actor as such, it should first achieve control over its energy supply; otherwise it will continue to be a collection of national actors, each pursuing its own national interests, and thus vulnerable to the divide-and-control tactics of ruthless external suppliers.
madam president, we are indeed talking about signs of a return to europe, but unfortunately the situation in the car industry is still worrying and that is why i believe we must send a clear signal to european countries to maintain programmes to replace old, energy-intensive cars with new cars, to maintain programmes to stimulate the budgets of those countries and, of course, we can attach certain conditions to these programmes for restructuring in order to save energy.
i also believe that a sustainable forestry policy is needed in the future, as well as a strategy to prevent such disasters.
emergencies often entail high human, economic and environmental costs.
in the future, as many colleagues have pointed out, we will probably have to face more and more disasters because of climate change - not just forest fires, which will not be confined to southern europe but will also be seen in central europe and even in northern europe - but also other types of disasters, such as floods.
i should also like to stress why many people have raised (mrs podimatou was the first to raise this, and many other colleagues have also spoken), the issue of climate change and the necessary adaptation that is needed and the proposed revision of the community's forestry strategy to address climate-related aspects.
i should add here that this commission communication is very important, as is the announcement we made last week on the financing of the climate change agreement we are expecting in copenhagen, where a large amount will be allocated to finance adaptation to climate change in developing countries.
the resources will be directed to projects that are needed to enable those countries that are suffering from the effects of climate change, without having contributed to the greenhouse effect, to cope with these effects.
the praise we have received for the work of the civil protection mechanism is very much in evidence of the work that has been done in recent years and of the potential it has, given that it has the powers and the means - mainly financial - to extend its work to the benefit of the european union, the citizens and the protection of the environment and the assets of european citizens.
the commission is committed to strengthening the community's contribution to disaster prevention, preparedness, response and recovery in order to protect citizens and the environment.
madam president, mr president of the commission, increasing energy security is an important item on your agenda.
the future commission must build the internal energy market, effective competition and a different level of security of supply for all member states.
the european agency for the coordination of energy regulators will play an important role in this respect.
energy security also depends on the union's neighbours.
we now have less than three months until copenhagen and the climate talks have now entered into a crucial phase.
the ultimate objective of the climate agreement is to keep global warming below 2 degrees celsius, an objective that was endorsed at the last g8 summit and the major economies forum.
developing countries should take appropriate mitigation actions to curb the growth of their emissions to 15-30% below business as usual by 2020. the eu proposes that developing countries (except least developed countries) design and implement low carbon growth plans containing their key mitigation actions.
we need to mobilise private investment and promote the establishment of a robust international carbon market, but substantial public funding will also be required.
in this respect, it is worth mentioning the global partnership on technology, which aims at doubling investment in low carbon technologies.
furthermore, we have to strengthen support to the poorest and most vulnerable countries to adapt to the increasing adverse effects of climate change.
last week, on 10 september 2009, the commission adopted a communication on stepping up international climate finance, which aims at speeding up the international negotiations.
mr president, commissioner, whenever we talk about climate change, we talk about adaptation measures, but also measures to reduce the causes of climate change.
i would like to ask you in the context of the copenhagen conference: what is the priority of increasing energy efficiency for developing countries, but what are your discussions on the drinking water crisis and, of course, the food crisis?
however, they are still not as ambitious as those to which the european union has committed, and fall below the level that science is telling us is required in order to keep global warming below 2°c, as was agreed by all the leaders of the major economies in july 2009 in l’aquila, including the americans, the chinese and the leaders of the other countries that you mentioned.
regarding brazil, china, india, mexico and other developing countries, of course we expect from them a reduction in the rate of growth of their emissions of the order of 15% to 30% below ‘business as usual’.
this is again what science is telling us is necessary in order to keep global warming below 2°c.
some of these countries have already taken national measures which will lead to reductions in emissions, either by energy efficiency measures or investments in renewable sources of energy, but we need to intensify our cooperation with them – exchange of information, cooperation regarding technologies and transfer of technology – in order to achieve the reductions that we need.
regarding cost reduction and, as you mentioned, energy efficiency, clearly all investments in energy efficiency are win-win-win situations.
for example by reducing the consumption of imported oil, not only do you save money, and you do not pay it to the oil-producing countries, but you also reduce co2 emissions.
in many countries, especially developing countries, where there are problems with air pollution – the air pollution problem in china, for example, is very well known – there will be the collateral benefit of improving air quality.
regarding the impact assessment and the issues of competitiveness, these were discussed at length when we adopted the energy and climate package.
the provisions that we have in our legislation will provide the assurances need to preserve the competitiveness of other european industries, especially small and medium-sized enterprises by, for example, granting free allowances, in many cases up to 100% of their emissions.
- mr president, the honourable member rightly notes the trend towards improvement in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, which is due, among other things, to energy efficiency measures and the increased use of renewable energy sources in the transport and housing sectors.
the commission notes that energy efficiency and renewable energy also serve other policy objectives, such as improving the security of the european union's energy supply, enhancing its competitiveness, creating jobs and improving citizens' living standards.
given that we have a 10-year window to 2020, and that significant greenhouse gas reduction results can be achieved in the area of energy efficiency in buildings and in the area of transport, and given that we are in the midst of an economic crisis and people are losing their jobs, we must emphasise that the green economy can create millions of jobs.
so i hope that the solution will be that you, the european commission, together with parliament, will be able to find innovative solutions to increase investment in energy efficiency.
parliament proposed interesting solutions, the increase of the european regional development fund from 2014, the creation of a special fund from 2014, the possibility of using a reduced vat, for energy efficiency and renewable energy.
initiatives of this kind allow the coordination of eu policy instruments in order to have a coherent, stable and sustainable development of the regions involved.
on the occasion of the last council it was said that a strategy would have been developed for the black sea region by the end of 2009. this is an extremely important initiative as it can bring along harmonised development and prosperity for the region that, in comparison with the black sea area, is far more complex in terms of actors involved and relevance for the security, stability, energy and the environment.
mr president, everyone wants energy security, so why do we not have it?
maybe it is because there are 27 interpretations of what energy security means.
the fact that member states have different interpretations of, or interests in, energy security is also proven by the fact that some countries involved in nabucco have also signed up for south stream, thereby lowering nabucco’s credibility and the chances for a common european energy policy.
in 2008, the european union's trade deficit reached a record high of eur 242 billion, mainly due to the increase in the price of imported energy.
desertec will use solar energy from north africa and will include a mediterranean plan to capture solar energy and build an electricity transmission network linking the european union to the middle east and north africa.
the union needs to invest more in diversifying its energy supply sources.
as rapporteur for the energy performance of buildings, i call on the union to provide innovative financial instruments to stimulate investment in the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency, in particular for buildings and transport.
the development of new energy supply routes must be as important as the development of relations with russia.
first of all, the policies we follow in the energy sector seek to promote the wellbeing of our citizens and our industry.
what we are looking for is a secure supply of well-priced and clean energy.
secondly, we never make any side deals when we are discussing energy agreements.
we work from the point of view that interdependence in energy supply is the most important thing and is beneficial for all – for suppliers, transit countries and consumers.
perhaps it does not make us a speedboat in the energy ocean, but it makes for stability.
the next area where we have a weakness, and which we are continuing to discuss, is external energy policy and coherence.
it is true that there is a lot of controversy – or at least perceived controversy – and, as a commissioner, i would definitely be happy to see a more coherent external energy policy.
for this reason the second strategic energy review is still very important.
all the points that we put forward in the second energy review are still there.
so that is what we are doing, but at the same time we definitely take note of what happens in the energy world.
regarding the point on nuclear energy, we have moved away from this option.
last but not least, i really believe that these issues and debates very much help to shape energy policy, but there is no single instrument that provides for it.
i will be very happy also to answer questions in the itre committee, or in any other committees that would like to discuss energy issues in more detail.
as we are at the beginning of our mandate, i believe that one of the areas in which the european parliament must be actively involved is in ensuring energy security.
in this context, i would like to stress the importance of the nabucco project, which will help to ensure the energy security of the european union, as it will ensure that european consumers have access to alternative sources in a safe way.
but energy is a commodity, to which the principles of the market economy must be applied.
energy must not be used as a tool of political pressure.
the energy crises faced by europe have demonstrated the importance of diversifying energy sources.
– we try hard to encourage a coherent energy policy, but such a policy exists and is fully implemented.
we need a clear, european energy policy, and we need it now.
the european union is dependent on energy imports, consumption is constantly increasing, but natural reserves are limited.
energy security requires both diversification of sources and transport routes and very efficient interconnection between member states, as is currently being done through eu-funded projects on the gas pipelines between romania and its neighbours, hungary and bulgaria.
that's why i supported and support the nabucco project but, in parallel, the shift towards diversification of renewable energy sources.
we need to invest now in sustainable agriculture that can provide the food we need, even in times of financial crisis, to prevent a food crisis later.
– mr president, first of all, please let me express my sincere sorrow for the huge tragedy that hit taiwan on 8 august and in particular for all the people that were killed by the incredible energy of the devastation from this major disaster.
the copenhagen conference is talking a lot and we're getting ready to take some steps for a future post-kyoto agreement to reduce emissions.
so we're talking more about mitigating the causes that lead to climate change.
the lisbon treaty reaffirms that the eu economy is a social market economy and gives the union new competences in areas such as climate change and energy policy.
these competences are becoming particularly important in the context of the eu's energy dependence on third countries.
gas is not the only energy source for european countries.
ensuring the energy security of our states and citizens can only be achieved by diversifying sources and routes of hydrocarbon supply.
last december, the european union made a historic commitment to reduce carbon emissions, confirming its leadership in efforts to combat climate change.
we can be proud of the role played by the european parliament in adopting legislation that contains not only reductions in pollution levels but also concrete measures to achieve these commitments, resulting in a stabilization of global temperature rise.
in the case of the copenhagen negotiations in december, we must get firm commitments to reduce emissions and financial support to third world countries for climate change mitigation and adaptation.
but climate change legislation cannot be passed in the united states before the copenhagen conference, so the obama administration will struggle to lead the negotiations, but without a clear mandate.
it's crucial for us to act with one voice and encourage others to join us in the process of reducing emissions.
the special committee will reaffirm the european union position concerning the new global financial governance, but will also interact with the member states, aiming at best implementation of community measures meant to generate sustainable economic growth.
the danube strategy should focus on common objectives and projects in the fields of transport, energy, environment and cultural cooperation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i am among the mps who believe that agriculture is a solution and not just a cause of climate change.
we need to be able to develop new models, new modes of production to restore the agricultural and domestic biodiversity that, at the beginning of this millennium, we've already lost 70 percent of.
but there is one single element that affects all of this: climate change.
the main cause of these disasters is evidently the uncontrolled development of certain categories of activities, resulting in increased carbon dioxide emissions and global warming.
current statistics show that the per capita carbon dioxide emissions of developed countries can be hundreds of times higher than those of developing countries.
development and cooperation mechanisms, as well as the allocation of a substantial climate change fund to developing countries, are important for the conclusion of a post-kyoto international agreement.
for non-ets sectors, the measures envisaged may include: renovation of energy-inefficient buildings, establishment of an energy efficiency fund in each member state, significant increase of the erdf share that can be used for energy efficiency in housing and development of public transport.
these measures can create around 7 million jobs at european level by 2020. for ets sectors, financing mechanisms for the low carbon economy are needed.
the re-engineering of european energy or metallurgical companies will enable them to produce in an environmentally friendly way.
we need to look at the costs of the clean energy transition not as an economic burden that will lead to higher production costs for companies and higher public spending in national budgets, but as investments that will bring tangible benefits in terms of jobs, technological innovation, clean infrastructure, and contribute to the sustainable development of the countries concerned.
climate change is a threat to the balance of our environment and our habitat.
europe must show courage and be consistent in its leadership in the effort to combat global warming.
in the interests of fairness and historical responsibility, poor countries must be helped to strengthen and adapt their economies to new challenges, while protecting themselves from the effects of global warming to which they are most vulnerable.
i hope that those attending the december conference will understand that there is no alternative to reducing emissions and that a delayed decision in copenhagen on binding targets will mean a failure not only of the conference but also of multilateral dialogue on global issues that affect our future, the future of all of us.
climate change is one of the most serious environmental, social and economic threats.
i believe that this problem must be tackled in two aspects: - an action plan in the worst affected areas: the use of plant varieties resistant to the new climatic parameters, the adaptation of the agricultural calendar to the new conditions, afforestation, the construction of greenhouses, the management of agricultural water resources, the greening of polluted land; - the other aspect must be a forward-looking plan to eliminate the causes of climate change by promoting a low-carbon global economy, coupled with a promotion of energy security.
i firmly believe that the european union must maintain its leadership in the fight against climate change, which must not be put in second place because of the current economic difficulties.
achieving an agreement in copenhagen will provide the necessary impetus for coordinating global action to combat climate change.
the climate crisis must be linked to the economic crisis: it is the opportunity to move from an unsustainable economy based on limited natural resources to a sustainable economy.
in addition to promoting the strategy of energy security and energy efficiency, europe needs to develop its investment plan in new energy technologies.
promoting green technologies at community level involves not only finding an alternative to the energy crisis, but also boosting economic growth and job creation.
on the other hand, the copenhagen agreement provides an opportunity to promote future links between the eu emissions trading system and regional or federal trading systems in the us and other countries that practice this type of system or similar systems.
last but not least, the eu must take a united stance to maintain its leadership role in the negotiations and must actively participate in strengthening existing climate partnerships with developing countries and in forging new partnerships where they do not yet exist.
over the next 50 years, climate change will have significant effects on important economic sectors such as agriculture, energy, transport, ecosystems, tourism and health.
climate change will also affect households, businesses and certain sectors of society, in particular the elderly, people with disabilities and low-income households.
the eu is determined to act swiftly to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
but mitigating climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions is not enough.
the effects of climate change are expected to be more significant than anticipated and will occur regardless of the mitigation measures that will be implemented.
this is why measures are needed to strengthen the resilience of natural and human systems to cope with the impacts of climate change, i.e.
we need a global solidarity pact to develop green economies by promoting clean technologies that secure jobs and protect the environment and public health.
the second point is that it isn't just public money which can be used in this context; in addition to directly providing aid, steps can be taken to encourage private sector investment in low carbon economies.
i fully support the european community's accession to the statute of the international renewable energy agency (irena).
the main objective of this is to disseminate good practice in the field of renewable energy, both within the european union and globally.
under its statute, the agency will promote and support the use of renewable resources globally.
by acceding to the status of this agency, the community will enjoy better direct access to information on renewable energy activities, both at european and global level.
the commission will also be able to monitor the progress of member states towards the mandatory 2020 target for renewable energy.
− in voting for this report, i want to stress the importance of establishing this international organisation, which will promote and support the use of renewable resources across the globe, given the benefits that can be gained from their contribution to environmental and climate protection, economic growth and social cohesion, including poverty reduction, energy security and regional development.
a third key point in the budget is represented by energy policy, an essential area for 2010 as it will be the year of the adoption of a new energy plan for the period 2010-2014 aimed at boosting the eu’s energy security and competitiveness.
the european union cannot have sustainable economic development if it fails to invest in education and research.
in its communication ‘a shared commitment for employment’ of june 2009, the commission has encouraged member states and social partners to ensure that young people, despite the difficult economic environment, have access to quality education and training and, in particular, to high-quality apprenticeships and traineeships.
i am referring in particular to the energy efficiency of buildings and sustainable transport.
we have a duty to give the union coherence, efficiency, a long-term perspective, balanced development of all regions, so that it can face the challenges on the international political stage, whether we are talking about the economic crisis, climate change, our common identity, etc.
with these means, i believe that european diplomacy should play a much more active and decisive role in defending the union's fundamental interests, including energy security.
personally i consider that the time is now ripe for a substantive evaluation of transatlantic relations to give them the solid basis they deserve to withstand the current common challenges posed by the international environment – energy, climate change, emerging new powers, the financial and economic crisis, and terrorism.
i believe that we can make progress on the climate issue, the economic crisis and the doha round - reaffirming the importance of its conclusion - and that we can initiate extremely important processes in the legal field.
we should also achieve a single set of high-quality global accounting standards on financial instruments by the end of 2010 and, hopefully, complete convergence by june 2011. on climate change, we had a very first exchange on climate change with president obama in prague.
i was personally present and we pressured the united states to do more on climate change, but we also know that president obama has a very important health-care issue in congress and the senate.
let me also say, because this was mentioned, that the energy council will not overlap with the tec.
it is clear that security issues will go to the energy council, whereas regulatory issues go to the tech.
the focus of the energy council is on new technologies and energy security.
the european union and the united states must play a leading role in combating climate change.
in this context, a number of joint commitments have been made to combat the adverse effects of global warming.
as far as europe is concerned, a viable and practical solution to protect the environment is the opening of the rhine-main-danube shipping canal, which links the ports of rotterdam and constance directly.
the use of river navigation as an alternative will bring numerous economic benefits and lead to a reduction in noise pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
the use and development of the canal will make the transport of goods cheaper, safer and more energy efficient.
environmental protection policies can be complemented by measures to ensure safe and secure transcontinental mobility and international connectivity for european goods and citizens.
we are very vigilant about the sensitive environment in the baltic sea, which is of course at risk because of all the projects that are to be carried out, and that is why we have set very strict environmental requirements for this particular project, which is now being examined and reviewed by various relevant authorities.
for our part, we have just launched two packages of confidence-building projects, with funding from the european commission in the areas of health, environmental, social and economic protection.
it is still too early to say what these agreements will look like, but we believe it is possible that the european union will want to ensure that the adjustment programme includes a number of reforms that we consider essential to ensuring good governance and sustainable growth in the future.
the european union has already taken strong action on its own to combat climate change, making progress towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union will take part in the copenhagen conference as a leader in the fight against climate change.
the energy-climate change package is part of community legislation and is being implemented.
the european union must also focus on financing its own climate change adaptation measures.
some countries already have a wider range of options that allow them to reduce emissions without significantly increasing energy prices.
countries still undergoing energy sector restructuring would feel the impact of these measures disproportionately at the consumer level, relative to the ability to bear the costs of the changes.
a country that has a large contribution of wind energy in its energy mix has allowed itself to invest in renewable energy, as it has already developed by polluting.
on the other hand, a country that still relies heavily on coal-fired power generation has a technological gap that it needs to close and, at the same time, reduce its emissions.
for this reason, i believe that the decision on financing climate change must take this into account and exclude the countries of the latest waves of accession from paying contributions that would place an undue burden on these economies.
the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 december and the new interinstitutional relations it provides for will enable the european union's representatives to deal more effectively with the consequences of both the economic and financial crisis and the copenhagen negotiations to combat climate change.
the copenhagen conference is approaching and the eu must play a key role in negotiating a comprehensive and ambitious global agreement to combat climate change.
the european council conclusions mention the funding needed, at global and european level, to combat the negative effects of climate change, such as drought, fires and floods that cause so many victims and damage each year.
i believe that the eu should give financial support to the most consistent extent possible to the actions of the states on irrigation, building, afforestation and encouraging the production of renewable, solar, wind, bio and hydro energy.
we also saw a great need for eu financial support at the level of municipalities and citizens who do not have the funds to make their buildings energy efficient.
unilateral eu action, although a leader in tackling climate change, is not enough.
a global agreement on climate change mitigation and adaptation will not be possible without the involvement of developing countries, especially the most advanced.
the effects of climate change are already affecting the development of these countries: droughts, floods, natural disasters, desertification, with all its economic and social consequences.
these joint efforts will contribute to the achievement of the targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, developing a sustainable economy and creating green jobs.
we must also help russia to meet its objective need to avoid being trapped as a possible oil- and gas-dependent power, while we have to achieve our independence from an energy point of view.
we have to look for something more imaginative in order to find true cooperation, technological cooperation and exploitation cooperation, opening the markets in the field of energy.
although we speak 23 languages, we can speak with one voice when it comes to defending our economic, political and energy interests.
the european union must pay particular attention to energy security, both by ensuring constant supply from russia and by developing alternative projects such as nabucco and the pan-european constanta-trieste oil pipeline.
for us romanians, energy security means security in the black sea area.
european energy policy can be affected by frozen conflicts in this area.
energy security also affects the development of projects of vital interest to the development of the european union.
it could be about the middle east and afghanistan, and now it is of course very much about the climate summit in copenhagen.
it is also about the financial and economic crisis and common commitments there, and it is about energy relations, accession to the wto and various types of security policy foreign policy issues.
the second item i want to mention is energy.
the european union and russia are, as i said, also important partners in the energy field.
the relation is one of interdependence, which offers both sides a strong motivation to put our energy relations on a predictable and also on a concrete basis.
ensuring an unhindered and uninterrupted energy supply to the european union, thus preventing and overcoming emergency situations, is therefore of utmost importance.
this is what we aim to achieve with, for instance, the early warning mechanism on which we are working and where it is important that we work with the ministry of energy of the russian federation.
we hope that it will really work, and we also have to make sure that there is a very clear and transparent legal basis for the energy relationship.
it is also a question of the sustainability of health systems, which will have to cope with an increasing number of patients as the ageing population increases the proportion of people who are no longer active in the labour market.
so if we are talking about social conditionality, we have to talk about the reforms that need to be made to these social sectors, first of all the pension system, so that we can achieve financial sustainability in the medium and long term that will contribute to solving the problems in these countries.
the european union and its member states must be able to preserve existing jobs and create new ones, and this can be done by investing effectively in agriculture, education, health, transport and energy infrastructure.
the european commission and the member states have funded a recently published study that criticises the eu's climate policies for limiting themselves to reducing industrial greenhouse gas emissions without attaching importance to the natural capacity to capture carbon dioxide.
but the study shows that intensive agriculture developed by the european union bears a heavy responsibility for climate change.
i think that if we want to address agriculture in this context, we should say something else, for example, in terms of the contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the record of european agriculture is remarkable, with a 20% reduction between 1990 and 2006. given that the overall average for this period was only 6%, i think it's not fair to put agriculture in the dock two weeks before the copenhagen summit.
global warming currently poses two major challenges to humanity: the need to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the need to adapt to the effects of climate change.
given that we are dealing with a global phenomenon and given that the eu is responsible for only 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions generated globally, it is important that in copenhagen, in two weeks' time, we get a global legally binding agreement.
welcome to copenhagen, president obama, with a mandate containing clear targets for reducing emissions that the united states will take on.
adapting to the effects of climate change requires a funding mechanism with precise figures on the amounts to be invested in green technologies that generate new jobs, so necessary in this time of crisis.
the international climate change conference that starts in copenhagen on 7 december aims to establish a post-kyoto agreement that will oblige the world's states to reduce polluting emissions.
the eu has unilaterally committed to reducing its emissions by 20% compared with 2005 and to using 20% of its energy from renewable sources.
reducing energy consumption and emissions can be achieved quickly and cheaply by increasing energy efficiency on a global scale.
the eu and its member states therefore need to increase energy efficiency, particularly in the field of buildings and transport.
in order for the eu to reduce its emissions from energy-intensive industries in line with its commitments, it needs to secure the financial resources for modernising european businesses.
when reviewing the eu budget, we need to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available for climate protection and adaptation measures.
− i would stress the need for pesticides to be used in a more sustainable way and with a significant overall reduction in risks and a use of pesticides that is compatible with the need to protect crops.
the existence of harmonised and comparable community statistics on sales and use of pesticides is important in the development and monitoring of community legislation and policies in the context of the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides.
such statistics are necessary for the evaluation of the european union's sustainable development policies and for the calculation of meaningful indicators on the health and environmental risks related to the use of pesticides.
i will give you three examples: the 'factory of the future' initiative, which is about modernising europe's industrial base with a budget of eur 1.2 billion, the 'energy efficient buildings' initiative, which has eur 1 billion, and the 'partnership for the development of green vehicles', which also has eur 1 billion for research and is supplemented by additional economic measures with expenditure of eur 4 billion.
i believe that the december council's work must find solutions to the dual challenges facing europe today, namely the economic crisis and climate change.
as regards climate change, i believe that the development of environmental protection policy must not affect other policies, namely the allocation of european funds for policies such as regional development.
this directive is part of the energy efficiency legislative package and will reduce the pollutant emissions generated by the transport sector.
the provisions of this directive shall apply from 1 november 2012. the transport sector is responsible for around 25% of polluting emissions and this directive will therefore help to reduce these emissions.
achieving the goal of keeping global warming to a 2°c gradient and reducing greenhouse gas emissions can only be achieved if we invest in clean technologies, research and innovation.
the european parliament has now called on the eu negotiating team and the member states to press for action on: emissions trading; a global carbon market; a fair system of financing for adaptation and mitigation; forests; and aviation and maritime transport.
the willingness of the eu to lead on this issue may well prove to be a key factor in establishing an internationally binding agreement to deal with climate change.
we already learn from iceland's experience in sustainable management of fishing resources, the use of geothermal heat and measures to fight climate change.
citizens and the environment in the european union must benefit from the protection afforded by the ban on smoking in public places.
we fight dangerous epidemics with all our might and invent complicated and expensive vaccines to protect us from new viruses, but the effort to protect our children, families, and the environment from the harm of smoking is much more within our reach.
of course, no one can suggest that individuals be given a ban on smoking, even in the name of principles that we all support, such as a well-protected public health or an environment free of sources of pollution.
at the same time, however, the majority of non-smokers want an environment free of cigarette smoke.
this objective, which is not synonymous with food security, can have an undesirable effect in the current context, because climate change affects each region differently.
implementing this agreement remains one of the eu's top priorities in energy security.
i hope that the commission's approach will go further and that in the years to come we will have the right to a healthy environment in all indoor spaces and workplaces.
i would like to take this opportunity to express my satisfaction at the way in which the european union is proving to be the main actor in finding viable solutions to combat climate change.
it is also worth noting that the european union countries that have been seriously affected by the financial crisis so far have also expressed their solidarity, have made an effort and will contribute (even if some of them, in a symbolic way) to show their commitment to the fight against global warming.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not wish to enter into a polemic with some of my colleagues who have spoken before me, but i believe that the world trade organisation has become all the more important as the current complexities of the economic environment require a multilateral institution to govern trade practices.
the second point i would like to stress is that the automobile sector is very badly affected, and i ask the car manufacturers, who are feeling the effects of the crisis, to adjust their offer to both the new environmental objectives and the new consumer needs.
the sustainability of this sector is at stake.
i consider this a great waste of opportunity and i am therefore very pleased that the commission has proposed this instrument and i am also very pleased that parliament has assessed it in such a positive way.
parliament and the council will have equal powers as legislators in areas such as agriculture, energy, immigration, justice and home affairs, health and the structural funds, including, of course, their budgets.
the european economic recovery plan is reflected in the eu budget for 2010 with €2.4 billion to finance strategic projects in energy, transport, the development of broadband networks in rural areas and support for rural communities.
i hope that the mid-term review of the 2007-2013 financial framework in 2010 will allow member states to better absorb structural funds, especially in the area of transport and energy efficiency of housing.
in the black sea region, georgia is of particular strategic importance for energy security, as supply routes such as the nabucco gas pipeline, the baku-tbilisi oil pipeline and the supsa oil terminal are closely linked to the stability of this country.
they must stimulate job creation while maintaining a sustainable fiscal policy in the long term.
education, health, agriculture and the development of transport and energy infrastructure remain the main priorities of these member states.
these member states also need support to modernise their highly polluting industrial sectors so that emissions are reduced but jobs are preserved and economic growth is ensured.
the economic crisis is widening the gaps, putting additional pressure on governments to deal with macroeconomic constraints, the social effects of the crisis, and to address issues of financial vulnerability and the sustainability of public health and social security systems.
i was rapporteur for the energy efficiency of buildings, a document that i negotiated in the second reading with the swedish presidency of the council of the european union, a report of great importance for the future of the european union and for the fight against climate change.
as the lisbon treaty creates a new basis for both climate change and a common energy policy, i hope - and we expect the european commission, mr president barroso - to present a work programme for the next five years so that the commissioners we are hearing from can also respond to these challenges.
the new treaty enables the eu to firmly assume both its mandate as a pioneer in the fight against climate change and its status as a global player, both in its relations with the united states and the russian federation and with emerging countries.
as a result of all these institutional changes, the eu will be more effective and have a wider range of ways to tackle the major challenges facing the international community, namely combating terrorism, adapting to climate change, ensuring energy security and combating the effects of the economic and financial crisis.
the swedish presidency has taken a step forward with three major actions: - the election of the eu president and high representative for foreign affairs, with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty; - the adoption of the stockholm multiannual programme 2010-2014; - the preparation and coordination of the cop15 climate change negotiations in copenhagen.
i welcome the council's decision on the willingness of the eu and its member states to contribute with a rapid initial funding of eur 2.4 billion per year for the period 2010-2012 to support developing countries to adapt to the effects of climate change.
for over eight years, our countries have been wasting lives, energy and vast funds in a war-torn country where two other empires have been stuck together: the british and the soviet.
thirdly, embark upon the liberalisation of the media environment, uphold freedom of speech and of assembly.
it is participating constructively at deputy minister level in the four multilateral forums – democracy and governance, economic integration, energy security and people-to-people contacts.
thirdly, the absence of a pca is not only a loss to belarus; it deprives us of a legal basis for structures like a formal human rights dialogue and addressing trade or energy transit issues.
in my view, the protection of the civilian population must be a top priority and the european parliament must strongly state that acts of violence, especially sexual violence, as well as human rights violations in general, the abuses committed in kivu, must stop immediately, as must the climate of impunity.
i would like to know how the european commission intends to support the efforts of local authorities to generate an integrated and sustainable development strategy based on the needs of the communities and taking into account the needs which could be influenced by external causes.
i would like to add to what my colleague said that when we talk about smart cities, it's important to invest more in energy efficiency in our homes.
90% of the buildings that will exist in 2020 are still there today, which is why i am calling for future cohesion policy to increase the share of the european regional development fund that can be used by member states for energy efficiency in buildings and, in particular, in housing.
− the outcome of the vote on the 2010 budget is an important step in the development and implementation of common rules and measures needed to regulate the situation in the energy, technology, agriculture and infrastructure sectors and is seen as a real support in the context of the economic crisis facing the member states.
in addition, good prospects are being created for the eastern european union's border issues and for the black sea basin, as resources have been allocated for the preparatory action for the ecological monitoring of the black sea basin, as well as a common european framework programme for the development of this region.
moreover, we have taken into account that, although the period is difficult, attention is paid to tourism as a source of development, as evidenced by the budget allocation for sustainable and social tourism.
there is also significant funding being allocated to the second stage of the economic recovery plan - €2.4 billion - which includes vital support for energy (including renewable energy) projects and infrastructure, as well as €420 million to provide broadband access in rural areas.
the budget will therefore allow significant developments in the areas of energy, infrastructure, and technology, as well as providing crucial assistance in the current economic climate.
− i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010 as amended by the council (all sections) and of the proposed amendments to the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010. the eu budget for 2010 provides significant amounts for commitments under the european economic recovery plan such as energy networks (eur 1175 million), the european offshore wind energy network (eur 208 million) and carbon capture and geological storage (eur 523.2 million).
the european parliament also succeeded in supplementing the amounts allocated to transport security, the sesar joint undertaking, activities supporting european transport policy and passenger rights, the intelligent energy europe programme, part of the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, the clean sky joint undertaking.