in this context, i look forward to working effectively with the appointed rapporteurs on the various parts of the package in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
europe needs a common energy policy, it needs to improve its bargaining position in the energy field.
the issue of diversification of energy resources and the construction of the nabuco pipeline needs to be addressed urgently.
the european union is currently facing very serious problems, such as the financial crisis, the energy crisis caused by the ukrainian-russian conflict.
i also emphasize that due to the dependence on russian gas, the impossibility of restarting the v1 nuclear power plant in jaslovské bohunicia, the energy security of the slovak republic is increasingly threatened.
subsequently, due to the lack of available credit, there is a threat of an energy and food crisis.
to maintain at least current levels of energy production, some us$26 trillion will be needed globally by 2030 to invest in the reconstruction and opening of new oil and gas deposits, as well as in the production and distribution of all types of energy.
it must help to bridge the consequences of local political encounters, but also the consequences of any natural events, and enable a functioning energy supply in a pan-european context.
the experience of slovakia, as well as other european countries, has shown that the priorities of the european union aimed at connecting and integrating the isolated energy markets in europe need to be urgently supported.
ladies and gentlemen, the recent gas crisis has shown us the importance of a common eu energy policy.
i believe that the need to ensure a continuous supply of energy is a fundamental societal priority.
shared consumption, predominantly from non-renewable energy sources, is beginning to outgrow the environmentally acceptable threshold.
we need to build safe nuclear power plants while encouraging rural communities, through the structural funds, to strategically orient themselves towards the energy/water/biotechnology nexus, thereby strengthening the diversification of the energy base.
solidarity between generations is also about educating citizens to respect life, human dignity and the environment.
only by close cooperation between eu member states in the field of public procurement will we foster innovation and ensure sustainable, high-quality public services.
at this time of global climate change and environmental troubles, it is clear that we need to address the issue of the european wilderness.
the actions of the russian federation have caused a gas crisis in many countries of the european community, which has directly threatened the economies of the member states and has shown the negative effects of energy dependence on russia.
it captures all the important areas of society's lives as we move towards dramatically accelerating climate change.
i firmly believe that this report, which is far more important than the other own-initiative reports, will provide a good basis for the next parliament, which will have to deal with the concrete impacts of climate change.
ladies and gentlemen, as the european union aspires to become a leader in the international fight against global warming, it must not only formulate climate protection objectives but also implement them through policy measures.
mr florenza's cross-cutting report confirms that the fight against climate change must be based on a horizontal approach and taken into account in all legislation.
water plays a central role in climate change.
we must recognise that the consequences of climate change on water regimes can trigger a domino effect and affect different sectors of the economy.
the growing global water problems require coordinated water management policies in the member states and the introduction of environmental principles into integrated river basin management.
a sustainable way of life is not possible without the contribution of the economy, science, the media, organised civil society and citizens.
i fully support the report and thank you, mr florenz, for documenting in detail the future policy of the european union on climate change.
it's terrible that global climate change is affecting and will affect our environment, and therefore our health and society.
since parliament's decision in april to set up an interim commission on climate change, negotiations to help integrate european responses into the global context have been successful.
however, we must continually review our reservations in the light of the reduction targets, energy consumption and the role of agriculture.
by working together, we can hopefully reduce carbon emissions and slow down the process of global warming in europe and around the world.
as mr. florenz mentioned, there is no one way to combat climate change, but we know that the right thing to do is to start with increased efficiency and better resource management.
global climate change is harmful to our environment, to our current way of life and to the opportunities of future generations.
i believe that if the eu wants to be the biggest exporter of cars and at the same time a global leader in the fight against climate change, it must help its automotive industry, which is the biggest private investor in research and development.
energy efficiency of buildings can directly lead to savings for european consumers.
i see the solution in the widespread deployment of automated consumer smart metering systems and systems that provide an overview of immediate energy consumption, including households.
could the council inspire the european institute of technology in budapest to get involved in the energy efficiency of buildings?
many disasters, which are increasing in number in europe as a result of climate change, are forcing us to adopt rules that ensure that we can provide financial assistance very quickly and flexibly, immediately after a disaster, but also to implement preventive measures against various natural disasters.
i welcome the intention to launch the 'gateway to china' programme specifically aimed at creating a training programme for managers in china to support the access of european smes to the chinese market by 2010. the report makes recommendations for improving europe's trade relations with china, which must be based on the principles of reciprocity, sustainable development, respect for ecological limits, contribution to global climate change objectives, fair competition and trade in line with our common values and wto rules.
− crossborder cooperation is an important impetus for the sustainable development of neighbouring border regions.
in many cases, problems and waste of money can be avoided by changing the languages according to actual rather than planned attendance at the negotiations in a short time.
it is particularly necessary to create favourable conditions for smes' access to financial resources, both loans and european union funds, in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of their business activities.
eu cohesion policy funding for the period 2007-2013 can make a significant contribution to meeting the objectives of the union's renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, namely citizens, business, infrastructure, energy and research and innovation.
we must remove all barriers and create a genuine internal market for renewable energy.
of course, a successful outcome requires consensus and, above all, the goodwill of the slovenian and croatian governments to find a satisfactory and sustainable solution.
in conclusion, let me express my conviction that the european parliament's recommendations in these five reports will add value and fulfil the expectations of citizens in european cities and in rural areas who believe that cohesion policy will ensure them regional development, the gradual closure of regional disparities, new job opportunities, energy security, improved energy efficiency in their homes, better transport and technical infrastructure and a higher standard of living.
i am very pleased to see that over eur 100 billion is to be invested in protecting the environment.
at the same time, i would seriously welcome a much higher allocation for energy efficiency and renewable energies – currently eur 9 million – as well as a higher allocation for measures to combat climate change, which, at eur 48 billion, is less than required at the moment.
i strongly believe that deciding on how we use these funds to protect our regions and combat the consequences of climate change, such as floods and droughts, will determine the future of our regions and their economic positioning.
people on project teams need to focus on quality projects that contribute to creating a competitive environment, not sitting in classrooms for hours and spending precious time and energy and, not least, a mountain of paper on account statements.
investments need to be directed towards energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing in order to create new jobs and energy savings.
furthermore, in this resolution i see another dangerous political trend within european policies, which is the removal of the child from the natural environment, which is his natural family.
− culture is an important element of the sustainable development of european regions, so the concept of development of each region must also include a cultural dimension.
it was in my interest, as well as in that of my political group, that this report should provide a good basis for an early final agreement between the european commission, the european council and parliament in favour of pragmatic measures to improve the energy performance of buildings in the member states.
an important aspect of this report is the agreement on a single harmonised methodology for calculating cost-optimal energy efficiency, on the basis of which member states will set their minimum standards, while also respecting regional climate differences.
finally, i would also like to mention the aspects of financial support that are necessary for the implementation of energy efficiency measures in individual member states.
i also welcome the proposal which should stimulate a better use of the structural funds to improve energy efficiency in individual member states.
in conclusion, let me highlight a very important fact concerning the early and consistent introduction of energy efficiency measures in individual member states.
recovery of the energy efficiency of buildings sector except for a significant reduction...
in writing.
the price and reliability of energy supply are key factors not only for the eu's competitiveness but also for the well-being of its citizens.
for this reason, the ep has put the consumer at the centre of its attention in its third energy package.
to help consumers benefit from this important piece of legislation, the ep has revised and improved the energy performance of buildings directive, which accounts for around 40% of total eu energy consumption.
a significant element of the recast directive is the targets for net zero energy buildings.
i welcome the establishment of the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund to support the implementation of this directive.
so far, limited use of structural funds for energy efficiency in buildings has only been allowed in the new eu-12.
today we are witnessing many successful projects, funded by eu structural funds, helping to achieve sustainable development in this area.
as members of parliament we have a duty to protect people and create an environment for employment opportunities.
the decision of the european parliament and the council to move a €5 billion package of unused funds from 2008 to 2009 and to use it both as a stimulus package to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis and as a €4 billion package to address some bottlenecks in europe's energy system is an exceptional but effective decision.
more importantly, the european union will have a common energy policy, which has proved necessary especially during the gas crisis.
in the context of the economic crisis, we see that we lack funding for investment projects in the energy sector and for rural development, which has been hit hardest by the consequences of the economic crisis.
the use and management of agricultural land is of particular importance in addressing the new challenges posed by climate change, renewable energy sources, water scarcity and biodiversity.
however, with a view to ensuring a credible and sustainable immigration and asylum policy, we must also address the issue of illegal migration, which is a serious concern for our citizens, in a coherent manner.
the convention on the rights of the child reminds us that for the harmonious development of a child's personality, he or she needs to grow up in a family environment based on happiness, love and understanding.
− pesticides, especially pesticides used in agriculture, have a significant impact on human health and the environment and their use must therefore be further significantly reduced.
i therefore consider the joint text of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on pesticide statistics, which was approved by the conciliation committee, to be an appropriate measure which will ultimately contribute to the sustainable use of pesticides and to an overall significant reduction of risks to health and the environment, but also to adequate crop protection.
moreover, this is a signal to speed up our new projects for the diversification of long-term energy supply so that russian influence can be minimalised.
ladies and gentlemen, only by working together at european level can we meet the greatest challenges of the 21st century: climate change, risky and expensive raw materials and energy, economic globalisation, or threats to our security.
the use of qualified majority voting in the council and the creation of a number of new legal bases in areas such as tourism, sport, energy, civil protection, administrative cooperation will be intensified.
it should not be possible, for example, for the government to use such aid to allow the old thermal power plant, which produces more emissions than electricity, to be restored to operation, purportedly in order to create a few new jobs.
i agree that we cannot ignore certain unfavourable signals coming from azerbaijan, and i do not question criticism of the political environment in azerbaijan, but i miss the european parliament's equally strong criticism of the current events in the philippines, where 57 political hostages were executed.