i'm talking about one of the key issues in environmental and health, and it's not cosmetic action that can help us, but a change in the development paradigm.
we need to be more efficient and more rapid in shaping the common energy policy.
diversification of sources, supply routes and countries from which we import energy.
i would like to thank the conference of presidents, which unanimously supported the proposal to invite young bosniaks and serbs from srebrenica to the european parliament every year, to think, plan and build a common and better future for srebrenica and the whole of bosnia and herzegovina, outside of srebrenica, free from the pressures and stresses of the home environment.
energy is a basic commodity needed for life.
therefore, the energy sector developed as required by the economic development of a company.
in the energy sector, we also call for a balance between secure and reliable supplies, environmental protection and action on climate change, and competitiveness.
in our political group we support all three objectives as the basis of a common european energy policy and we welcome the laperrouze report in this respect.
climate change and the already regular problems in january with the transport of russian gas to europe reinforce the importance of diversity in the common energy policy.
we need to implement as quickly as possible projects in the union to strengthen the energy infrastructure that will allow energy imports to take place via different routes.
in this respect, we must ensure that there are different countries of transit as well as different countries of export of energy.
in addition, we need to enrich our energy mix.
it must have a significantly higher share of energy sources that do not cause greenhouse gas emissions, both renewable energy sources and nuclear energy.
let me emphasize that energy efficiency is our priority.
to minimise the problems of importing energy, we need to develop an effective external energy policy.
our expectations for a common external energy policy will also be more realistic if we take concrete steps in the areas we have already defined as part of the common energy policy.
our political group will not approve amendments that reduce the diversification of energy resources.
we will, however, endorse amendments that increase supply routes and improve energy security in the union.
firstly, let me congratulate the temporary committee on climate change for all the work it has accomplished since its creation in april 2007: hearings, conferences, reports, resolutions, exchanges with third parties.
its tireless efforts have greatly contributed towards shaping the eu position on climate change.
the latest resolution, ‘2050: the future begins today – recommendations for the eu’s future integrated policy on climate change’, which was adopted by the temporary committee on climate change on 2 december 2008, and which you will adopt at this part-session, will again provide a very useful basis when discussing the options for a post-2012 climate agreement and for further deepening the eu’s climate policies.
by adopting the climate and environment legislative package at the end of 2008, the eu is sending a very strong political signal to all our partners in the world.
with the adoption of this package in a few months’ time, the eu will demonstrate that its commitment, as well as its leadership, in the global fight against climate change is as strong as ever.
indeed, the eu will be the first region in the world to commit unilaterally to a reduction of its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020. as you know, the climate and energy package will, as of 2013, enable the reform of the eu-ets (emissions trading scheme), set limits for the emissions outside the emissions trading scheme, stimulate co2 capture and storage technology, as well as boost the deployment of renewables.
the december 2008 poznań climate conference agreed on a work programme for 2009, with clearly identified steps towards copenhagen.
the ministerial round table in poznań also confirmed the shared willingness of both the developed and the developing countries to find an effective globally agreed response to dangerous climate change for the post-2012 period.
poznań has also sent the message that the current financial crisis is not to be seen as an obstacle to further action on climate change, but, instead, as yet another opportunity for profoundly transforming our economic system and moving firmly towards a low-carbon economy.
the czech presidency intends to build on such important achievements and to pursue efforts at international level towards a successful agreement in copenhagen in december 2009. on 2 march 2009 the environment council, and later the ecofin council and the spring european council, will be the first opportunities for further developing the eu position in this respect, on the basis of the commission communication towards a comprehensive climate change agreement in copenhagen, which we received a week ago, and on the basis of your input.
in addition to the shared vision for long-term action for mitigation technology and adaptation, the identification of appropriate means for financing effective and long-term climate policies will be key in future eu deliberations.
in this context, i can only reiterate the climate change committee’s call on the commission and the member states ‘to adopt, at bilateral level in the negotiations towards a post-2012 agreement, a mediating role between the positions of developed countries, in order to ensure by means of a balance of interest the success of the climate negotiations involving all major greenhouse gas emitters’.
i have spoken on the phone to carol browner, the president’s assistant for energy and climate change.
i said that the eu would like to work as closely as possible with the united states on the evolution and linkage of carbon markets.
the final report of the interim committee on climate change, chaired by mr florenz, has ambitious objectives and covers a wide range of issues, confirming the high importance attached by the european parliament to the issue of climate change.
last year, our priority was the climate and energy package.
on the international front, our priority will be the negotiations on climate change, which will be intensified in the run-up to the united nations conference in copenhagen, and as you have heard before, the czech presidency attaches great importance to these negotiations and has scheduled a number of bilateral and multilateral meetings and negotiations.
i am pleased that your report, in line with the commission's analysis, stresses that the financial and economic crisis should not be used as an excuse to delay action on climate change.
we also agree that taking action to tackle climate change is part of the solution to the problem of the economic crisis we are facing today.
with the climate and energy package, europe is now moving towards a low-carbon economy.
at the same time, it will help to reduce europe's dependence on imported energy, which is as important a benefit as we have seen recently with the gas crisis.
by now achieving the target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and by 30% if the rest of the developed countries agree to similar reductions under the international agreement, we are arguably in the most ambitious position of any country or group of countries.
in particular, the report contains valuable suggestions on what needs to be done to make the most efficient and effective use of natural resources in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and save energy.
the commission took a first step in this direction last year by adopting the action programme on sustainable production and consumption.
more recently, with measures complementing the climate and energy package, it has strengthened actions to save and use energy more efficiently.
however, much remains to be done in the field of the sustainable use of natural resources and, of course, there is still great potential for more efficient exploitation and use of energy.
the commission's recent proposal on the energy efficiency of buildings is a good example.
this is a multi-target sector as it has significant benefits both in terms of energy saving and climate protection, but also creates jobs and contributes to the development of technological innovation.
as regards the international climate change negotiations, the climate and energy package has undoubtedly strengthened our case and our efforts to convince our international partners that effective action is not only necessary but also possible.
we don't have time to waste.
positive messages are coming from the united states because, as the czech minister said earlier, president obama has committed to active us participation in international negotiations, announced that there will be a greenhouse gas trading system in the united states, and announced reductions of 80% by 2050 compared to 1990. all of this is positive, but we want to see it done quickly and this year, because we have to have an agreement in copenhagen at the end of this year and the united states is in debt and, as president obama has announced, we have to contribute decisively, together with the european union, to get the copenhagen agreement done.
we are also looking forward to the debate taking place in the united states on this subject, which will lead to the adoption of a number of other decisive measures to combat climate change.
the european commission's communication confirms the target of collectively reducing emissions by 30% in developed countries and defines the concept of comparability of efforts.
comparability will be crucial both for achieving environmental objectives and for ensuring a level playing field.
as regards developing countries, and while efforts of a similar nature and scale to those of developed countries are not required, it is nevertheless important to ensure that further action is taken by developing countries to achieve the lower carbon intensity economic growth they require.
to achieve the 2 degrees celsius target in 2050, developing countries need to limit their emissions growth rate to levels that are 15% to 30% below what they would otherwise be if they made no effort to reduce by 2020. the efforts to be made by each developing country will of course depend on its level of economic development and its potential.
we all know that we will not get the result we want in copenhagen unless we can get even more investment and secure more funding for emissions reductions for adaptation.
a part of the necessary investment, even in developing countries, will of course come from the private sector within the various countries, and about a third, according to the commission's estimates, will come from the carbon market.
finally, the commission communication stresses the importance of a global carbon market and the establishment of compatible trading systems among oecd countries by 2015, while for the more economically advanced developing countries it proposes a later date, by 2020. the commission's communication on the future of the european union is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
climate change is a broad field and i agree with what the rapporteur said that we had to be innovative in our temporary committee if we wanted to really cover all the horizons and content that this field covers.
of course, the areas of action that have been identified as having the greatest potential have been the energy, transport, transport and industry sectors, but other areas have also proved to be important, such as agriculture, livestock, sustainable forestry, information and communication technologies, and eu development policy with third countries.
the development towards a low-carbon society is of course possible by investing in research, by promoting development and innovation, all of which is already mentioned in the lisbon strategy.
and we can only do that if environmental concerns become a value, a real value, that people will embrace.
i also agree with what has been said about the link between the financial crisis and climate change.
this is an opportunity, and fears that we will forget about climate change are unjustified, because measures to revive the economy must be designed to promote sustainable development, not just consumption.
since the objective is to limit the increase in global temperatures, we must also act internationally, and here europe must find and deepen a common language with the developed countries, because together we must lift and bear the burden of our historical emissions, while, of course, listening to the developing countries and the poorest and allowing them to develop, albeit more costly, but sustainably.
commissioner, i agree with you completely that the car industry is structurally overheated and that we need more environmentally and energy-efficient cars.
we will be most social and solidarity-oriented if we support eco-energy-oriented restructuring.
consumers are increasingly sensitive about suffering and injuries to farm animals and therefore they have the right to be informed about the potential of cloning to cause pain and to waste natural resources.
during this time, we have seen the tragic rise of terrorism and new threats to regional peace, we have become aware of climate change, we have faced an energy, financial and economic crisis.
this is the area of climate change that has really been the focus of most of the scientific work.
i therefore think we should take every opportunity to call on russia to take its share of responsibility for both mitigating and adapting to climate change, and to call on it to be more active in international negotiations, given that we are just ahead of the copenhagen conference.
i would like to remind you, colleagues, that taking appropriate action on climate change is also a matter of ensuring human rights.
mr president, european legislation was set to encourage enterprises to improve their products and obtain higher standards of energy efficiency and environmental compliance.
ecolabelling as a part of the eu action plan on sustainable production, consumption and industrial policy is such a tool.
now, the problem is how modern technologies can be used for environmental protection, and how industry or services should be helped in promoting the environmental value of the production.
the goal of ecological certificates is to engage synergies with other legal acts that are tackling environmental aspects of the products.
it was initially expected that emas-registered companies would have performed better, since the emas environmental requirements are tougher as compared with older and better-known certificates such as iso 14001. yet emas-registered companies were not performing better, and the system of environmental excellence was weaker as compared with the iso 14001. the commission found reasons for the lack of success – the system is too tough, too expensive and too complex – and has proposed acceptable simplifications.
i hope that this will help organisations to choose the most rational systemic approach in order to interconnect different fields of environmental protection.
i think if we are to succeed in combating the effects of climate change, we need to set high goals in copenhagen.
we know that the japanese economy first greatly increased its competitiveness years ago when the country set high environmental targets.
i am convinced that we will also pass this test, and i hope that we will be able to use this time in this crisis to improve the development concept, in which i hope that, in addition to the social dimension, the ecological dimension will also have a stronger dimension.
we need to prove two things: firstly, that we will work together and therefore be more successful, and secondly, whether we are able to maintain the strategic priorities set in the last few years on the development of a knowledge-based, innovative and low-carbon society.
but we have also managed to maintain our vision and to act in the light of long-term challenges, certainly including climate change.
and let me just mention the energy projects.
my estimate is that we have found additional funding relatively quickly, which we are allocating in the future to develop new, cleaner technologies and to increase the reliability of energy supply.
and what's important is that we have technologies that are included in this package that talk about carbon capture and storage, about promoting wind energy, that is, energy from offshore wind farms, and connecting gas and electricity grids.
however, i would like to point out that, despite the many good projects that will receive additional aid, some important projects are missing from this package and that is why i would like these projects to be monitored very closely, their implementation to be monitored and additional money to be found as soon as possible to finance projects to improve energy efficiency and other renewable energy sources.
and there's certainly a lot of great potential in the use of geothermal energy.
the management of environmentally hazardous energy sources requires particular care in the area, and also elementary honesty.
when italy and slovenia try to hide the negative environmental consequences of the project, they harm everyone, including themselves, and especially the population living near the disputed site.
italy is in flagrant violation of the principles of the european union and is manipulating the situation to the detriment of people and the environment.
it degrades the environment, it destroys coexistence along the border and it sets a very, very bad example for future members.
i share the concern of slovenian and italian environmental organisations that the gas terminal could place a heavy burden on an already overburdened area.
the organisations also express doubts about the authenticity of the documentation used for the environmental impact assessment.
i call on the italian and slovenian governments to cooperate on this project as well, in accordance with the memorandum they signed last september - that is, to participate in the ecological assessments in the northern adriatic, or the gulf of trieste - and i expect that such an assessment will lead to a more appropriate location for the construction of a gas terminal than the gulf of trieste.
the report also draws attention to the importance of energy and water, which affect interstate relations within central asia and require a joint response.
all countries are linked together like a linking vessel, and we must also show our maturity by giving equal attention to all countries in the region, regardless of their size or their development or their energy wealth.
and i would be glad if the commissioner could also report on how far we have come in the energy security dialogue in the context of improved overall relations with russia and the implementation of democratic standards, which we would like to see more of in russia.
i am thinking of the quantitative targets for 2020 and 2050, and the experts are telling us that we need to start reducing global emissions in 2015, and i wonder if the commission has perhaps overlooked or abandoned this target.
we will achieve little by demanding high environmental standards in europe alone and by moving high-emission technologies to other parts of the world.
how do we stop the carbon leakage, the carbon leakage?
fossil fuels are the main source of emissions, and we're not going to stop that in the short term.
therefore, they should also pay great attention in international negotiations to the further development and use of technologies that enable the efficient use of fossil fuels without greenhouse gas emissions.
and there is something else that europe can do right now: we can increase the financial contribution to the seventh framework programme, which is dedicated to international cooperation on climate change.
but i would like to stress that copenhagen will only be a success story if it maintains both its ecological and social function.
if we can reduce or agree to reduce emissions into space.
here, the council and the commission still need to agree on the desired percentages by 2020, and whether it will also ensure sustainable development, whether it will also have a social function, whether we will succeed in developing part of the world enabling financing in particular for developing countries.
i would like to express my support for the fundamental objectives of our strategy, which is to prevent the climate from warming by more than two degrees on average.
this is a strategy based primarily on limiting less greenhouse gases, less temperature rise.
we need more investment in technological breakthroughs, particularly in the artificial reduction of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and in the development of fusion reactors, and i call on the commission to address these investments more and more.
− i think your angle is absolutely right because, if you go to a fitness centre today, even before you actually get to the machine you see the shelves full of different kinds of products, dietary supplements, energy drinks and so on.
we have not only a problem with funding, but also with how to... to accept the commitment of each country to reduce emissions.
i think we should make clear our expectation that obama will deliver on one of his most important campaign promises - that america will play a proactive role in the fight against climate change, and i think we should make clear our expectation that obama will help bring the conference to a successful conclusion with his personal presence.
the reasons are broader and include economic, energy and geopolitical issues.
my first point: the objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at european and global level.
we need to open the door wide for the use of existing low-carbon technologies and for the development of new ones.
climate change action must not be turned into a competition between individual low-carbon technologies.
secondly, at cop15, we need the eu representatives to make it clear that more money for third countries and their commitments to sustainable development are the package.
how can we explain to taxpayers that we have committed ourselves to financing the sustainable development of third countries without receiving any commitment from them to convince us of the intended use of the funds?
this time, this morning, i heard the news that obama had confirmed his arrival in copenhagen and that he would be committing to binding targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and that seems to me to indicate that our decision to press on with the political pressure is the right one.