that is because we are dealing with transboundary environmental problems.
we believe that the report does not make it clear that fisheries policy must be designed on the basis of environmental and sustainability criteria.
the regulatory framework aimed at improving both food safety and the environmental impact of plant protection products is good and important.
- we support the report because we believe that sustainable public finances are very important.
this approach is in line with today’s strategic environment, in which transnational threats and new technologies have blurred the dividing line between military and non-military, internal and external security.
but surveillance should also be broadened to take account of developments within member states that may affect budgetary sustainability, such as the growth of current account deficits, persistent inflation divergences, persistent divergences in the evolution of unit labour costs, or trends of unbalanced growth.
together with the strengthening of national budgetary frameworks and rules, and the implementation of reforms curbing the rise in age-related expenditure, this will ensure that sustainable positions are restored.
i think it is good that you are raising environmental issues, for example.
i myself have asked the commission to include the environmental impact of medicines in the information.
however, in industrial applications there is a good possibility to protect workers and the environment during use.
it is good that we are also strengthening the protection of workers and the environment there.
it is good that they are now able to use their competitive advantage of better environmental protection in the internal market.
that is not the way to make progressive environmental legislation.
show that environmental considerations can take precedence over market requirements in more cases than just this one.
it is very true that we are in the midst of two crises: a climate crisis and a financial crisis.
to this we can add an energy crisis.
my question to prime minister topolánek is therefore as follows: will the czech republic ensure that the emergency economic crisis programmes also work to solve the climate crisis?
we now have the opportunity to help our citizens to have a better environment and new jobs, and to help our small businesses.
with investments in new green technologies such as district heating, biofuels, combined heat and power, energy efficient houses, solar panels, smart grids, etc., we are taking advantage of the necessary transitions to meet the climate challenge and create the economic recovery that europe and the world need.
a simultaneous investment in climate-smart technologies and employment also stabilises the security situation vis-à-vis russia.
those who opposed the energy package and a common european comprehensive energy policy may now understand why we have put so much effort into being able to get the eu to speak with one voice on these issues.
may i also express the hope that you will pave the way well for the swedish presidency: as regards climate issues and competitiveness, where it is so important for you to demonstrate that we will tackle the economic problems with openness, without protectionism and with the dynamics of an open economy; and regarding energy issues, where you will play a crucial role, since you are clearly very well-placed.
i think it is fair to say that solidarity and security as regards energy means that we need to reform and deepen the european internal energy market.
he says we must reduce our ambitions in environmental and climate policy, and we must reduce our ambitions in social policy.
if europe is to be competitive in the future, we must invest in modern environmental technologies.
we need to invest in modern infrastructure to achieve a long-term sustainable society, and in an active climate policy.
we must invest in a social policy with fair working conditions, equal treatment of employees, a good working environment, etc.
that does not mean lower growth, but it does mean more sustainable growth in the long term.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
this convention dates from 2007 and deals with important issues such as the working environment, rest periods and social security of fishermen.
the biggest cost here is the environmental cost of long haul shipping.
it's a total waste of value.
mr president, when we are discussing the strategic energy review, i think it is important to stress some of the risks we are running – not only the risk of an insecure energy supply, with all the problems that brings, but also the fact that we are exposed to political pressure from regimes which use energy supplies as a lever to influence other governments.
i think it is a good thing to see that the policies we need to tackle climate change are very much the same as the policies we need in order to strengthen our energy security.
increased supply from other energy sources means a decreasing demand for fossil fuels, lower prices for european citizens and – not least – a reduced cash flow to the oil regimes of the world.
this has huge security implications which we need to consider when we discuss the european union’s future energy strategy.
sometimes i feel it is the elephant in the room, because it is one of the greatest potential contributors to the european union’s ability to reduce carbon dioxide emissions today and in the future.
if we try to bring all these elements together, we will have the opportunity not only for a stronger energy policy, but also for a stronger security policy.
we all know that the european energy market is in trouble.
the energy we produce is often produced in a way that destroys our environment and creates the greenhouse effect that will destroy human health, economies and stability, not just in our part of the world, but in many parts of the world.
the energy we have in europe is to be distributed through an old-fashioned distribution network that has not been renovated and is not being maintained.
in addition, we have close neighbours and conflicts over energy issues that are very worrying.
the relationship with russia has been discussed in this house on several occasions over the past year and it is completely unacceptable to make an energy crisis a new year's tradition and put ordinary people in a situation where old people freeze to death, hospitals have to be closed and industries are shut down.
another thing that is totally unacceptable is what russia and gasprom are trying to do with northstream, namely to try to override swedish environmental legislation and european legislation dealing with the safety of the baltic sea, even though this inland sea already has enormous areas of dead bottoms.
we're going to need all the energy, all the new technology, all the innovation, all the research and all the computing power that exists to deal with all these different problems.
the regulations put forward by the commission, including the financing package, are very good, but our citizens are still waiting for governments to dare to take decisions on energy solidarity and to dare to take decisions to break up the large state monopolies.
these monopolies are not only about the production of energy but also about the distribution of energy, and thus lock citizens and businesses, both small and mediumsized, into an unacceptable situation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the deadline for the adoption of the regulation to 31 december 1999. the eu has learned the hard way what it means to be overly dependent on a single energy supplier.
for environmental and economic reasons, this line should not be drawn into the baltic sea.
the report is pleasing in that it states that nuclear power must be an important part of europe's future energy mix.
if we are to meet the climate package's emissions reduction requirements, we need a modern european nuclear power plant.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste, which is a matter for the member states.
we are also generally in favour of investments in energy infrastructure, but we are questioning whether we should support all the projects and investments that the rapporteur wants.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
finally, after more than one and a half years of work, we are going to decide on this climate resolution.
the long-term reduction targets: in article 3 we call for reductions in eu emissions of between 25 and 40% by 2020 and at least 80% by 2050. that is good, and it means that we are going further than what the eu climate package from last year requires.
according to the fao report livestock's long shadow, the meat industry accounts for 18 percent of global emissions.
just as we must reduce motoring, we should also dare to say that today's rampant consumption of meat is not sustainable.
it's not sustainable.
between 1990 and 2005, emissions from the european transport industry have increased by 32%.
we have to ask ourselves if it's sustainable to have all this transport.
it covers pretty much every topic that has been mentioned in the climate debate for over two years.
yet i think it lacks the edge and the drive and the pressure in this work that is actually needed to follow the political line that we have started in europe on climate issues.
in the field of energy efficiency, there are opportunities that are not available where we have decisionmaking powers in parliament.
in the important area of health, the focus is on the collection of facts and the control of mosquito bites, whereas we need major strategic decisions in europe to cope with the effects of climate change on human health.
a specific call is made to use the stimulus packages all over the world to promote clean energy and green technologies, stressing thereby that the financial crisis and the climate crisis have the same roots – unsustainable use of resources.
while i support the report, like caroline lucas i would have liked to see more attention paid to the most recent signs, which tell us that climate change is both more rapid and serious than we thought just a couple of years ago – contrary to what some colleagues here have said, in particular mr helmer.
by the way, a recent screening of more than 900 climate articles in scientific journals – peer review – showed that not one of them questioned the main thrust of the ipcc.
what i am particularly concerned about is not co2 emissions per se, but the positive feedback mechanisms that are now happening in the planetary system, like the acidification of the oceans, reduced albedo and the possible leaking of methane from thawing tundra.
we can control emissions but we cannot control these factors.
this means, by the way, that the 2°c target has to be revisited and that greenhouse gas concentrations have to be lowered, rather than continuing to increase.
i hope the next parliament will build on our experience and deal with climate change and sustainability in a similar way.
- we voted today in favour of the report on the future of the eu's integrated climate policy.
- there is no doubt that the climate is changing.
but it is precisely the uncertainty that suggests that we should take the first steps to reduce carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere, for example.
i have therefore voted in favour of reducing these by 20% by 2020. the european parliament's ad hoc committee on climate change has now produced a report on how the eu should act on climate change.
we cannot go on saying yes to everything that is put forward to demonstrate our legitimate concern, uncertainty and willingness to act on the climate issue.
a shift to smaller, more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles is necessary.
this blatant waste of eu money must come to an end.
in the second amendment we want to see the possibility of having a lower vat rate on renovation and repair work to save energy.
we share the basic view of the report that fisheries policy should be based on science and that a consensus between fishermen and scientists is the basis for a policy based on sustainability.
it is important to support increased research efforts on the impact of fisheries policy on fish stocks, ecosystems and biodiversity.
however, miguelez ramos stresses the importance of policy decisions being based on science and long-term sustainability, and not primarily on the short-term interests of the fishing industry, which i see as positive.
a clear environmental perspective should permeate all research in the fisheries sector.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
it is important to support increased research efforts on the impact of fisheries policy on fish stocks, ecosystems and biodiversity.
we are deeply critical of parts of the eu's fisheries policy on environmental grounds.
miguelez ramos stresses the importance of policy decisions being based on science and long-term sustainability, and not primarily on the short-term interests of the fishing industry, which we see as positive.
a clear environmental perspective should permeate all fisheries research for which additional resources are allocated.
− mr president, i oppose both parts of mr cohn-bendit’s proposals because less than a month ago we debated this topic and voted on it in the committee on the environment, as we heard was suggested earlier.
it is also pathetic to see the way in which these two reports deal with the financing of climate and energy policy.
the same applies to energy policy.
this is a good report with clear environmental and safety objectives.
noise from tyres is not the only way to reduce traffic noise, but the best results are achieved with a combination of measures, of which noise emissions from tyres are an important part.
but it is also important not to allow any further derogations or longer time limits in this directive, in order to continue this positive development with less fall-off of dangerous emissions across europe.
we would also like to see a clear limit on co2 emissions.
emissions trading is not a sufficient tool to deal with the peak crisis we face.
mr president, since i have limited time, having thanked mr krahmer for his hard work, allow me to focus on amendments 136-139, where some 40 colleagues, including myself, suggest that this directive should include an environment performance standard for large combustion plants, limiting co2 emissions in the future.
i believe that recent science is enough substantive evidence that we need to be more ambitious than we thought just one or two years ago, when it comes to climate change mitigation.
as currently designed, the emission trading system will lead to a carbon-free power sector only after some 60-65 years.
that is why we have tabled these amendments, where we call for all power plants that are built in the future to limit their emissions to 350 g co2 from 2020 and onwards and those which are already in existence should be retrofitted by 2025 or close down.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
another reason why we felt compelled to vote against is that the proposal misses the chance to seriously reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the rejection of the amendments tabled by our delegation, which advocated limit values for co2 emissions from new large-scale electricity generating installations, shows that the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is not taken seriously.
in addition, several areas identified in the report, such as the financial crisis, climate change and energy policy, will be associated with enormous costs that are out of proportion to the eu budget.
it is about environmental investment, it is about new infrastructure projects, it is about energy efficiency in housing and it is about education, education and education.
- this report, outside the legislative procedure, advocates, among other things, an eu forestry policy, a dedicated eu fund to finance preventive measures in relation to climate change and an eu-funded drought observatory, among other things.
we believe that the environmental responsibility for agricultural land must be borne primarily by the member states.
and although there are important environmental and regional policy reasons, we do not believe that any agricultural production should be maintained by means of aid 'at any cost'.
the current long-term budget, which runs until 2014, was in practice established in 2005. what would we know about the current economic crisis, the situation in kosovo or gaza, the depth of the climate crisis or the violent fluctuations in food prices?
it is climate policy, it is jobs and growth, it is foreign and development policy.
what is needed now is a rapid proposal and a substantial mid-term review of the current long-term budget that brings rhetoric and resources closer together and that starts the process towards a more sustainable long-term orientation of the eu budget for the next long-term budgetary period.
what we're experiencing now is both a financial crisis and a climate crisis.
there are car brands and models that are better able to cope with these crises, namely those that have invested in sustainable technological development.
we shouldn't waste good money on bad.
another aspect that i recognize and welcome is that we should be able to take into account the impact of food on the environment.
we in the green group will take strong action against air transport in other ways, including proposing different environmental and transport charges.
the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a european database for citizens containing reference prices for products and inputs, as well as information on energy costs, wages, rents, fees and taxes for the whole of europe.
– madam president, i have participated in a number of meetings in the arctic region focusing very much on climate change.
because of global warming.
at the same time, since we do not have a careful, sustainable environment framework in place for the kind of activities that are now being explored by the nations in this region, i think this resolution sends a very important signal: be careful.
second, a moratorium, pending new scientific research and a better understanding of the region and its vulnerability or sensitivity, but also pending the results of many energy alternatives that are now very progressively developing.
i want to stress that we want to go beyond just enhanced multilateral cooperation and dialogue; we want to ensure that the safety of the environment and the livelihoods of the people are protected.
– mr president, we have been waiting quite a long time for the commission’s plan on sustainable production and consumption.
having read some of the early drafts of the commission proposals, i know that, in the environment dg in particular, there were much more ambitious plans to start with.
we are facing at least three parallel crises today – the financial crisis, the climate crisis and what i would call the ecosystem crisis, or overuse of natural resources.
it is only by tackling the root causes together – that is to say, unsustainable use of resources – through investing in low-carbon and eco-friendly production and products, that we will be able to build a better future.
the voluntary environmental management scheme emas basically involves a company or organisation conducting an environmental inquiry, looking at the environmental impact of its activities, developing an environmental policy, setting objectives and developing action programmes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i will start with the internal energy market because two years ago we started with an ambitious goal: to create a truly competitive and truly european energy market for the benefit of the citizens of the european union.
the tool to achieve this goal is the third internal energy market package for gas and electricity.
first, it will facilitate cross-border energy trade with the establishment of an agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators, with binding decision powers, to complement national regulators.
fourthly, it will ensure effective unbundling of the generation and transmission of energy so as to eliminate any conflict of interests, promote network investment and prevent discriminatory behaviour.
this is not just about a properly functioning internal market but more generally about ensuring that the eu can rise to the challenges we are facing in the field of energy: climate change, increased import dependency, security of supply, global competitiveness.
in particular, a functioning internal market is a key element of the eu’s effort to tackle climate change.
without a competitive electricity market, an emissions trading scheme will never work properly, and our aims regarding renewable energy will not succeed.
parliament’s call for stronger consumer protection and the fight against energy poverty is now enshrined in the legislative texts.
smart meters, allowing for consumers to be precisely informed of their consumption and promoting energy efficiency, are provided with a target of 80% of consumers to be reached by 2020. the powers and independence of national regulators have been strengthened, as well as the powers of the agency, and the rules on effective unbundling have been made more efficient.
energy efficiency is definitely one of the key policies of the european energy policy.
the building sector still has considerable potential to further improve its energy efficiency, at the same time creating new jobs and stimulating growth.
i warmly thank parliament for its support for the commission’s proposal on the recast of the energy efficiency of buildings directive.
the directive provides a framework to upgrade the energy performance of the eu’s buildings.
there is the issue of financing instruments that are very important for stimulating energy efficiency measures, but these need to be tackled in the appropriate legislation and initiatives.
very efficient buildings, whether they are called low- or zero-energy buildings, or next-generation buildings, are a new feature introduced into the directive by the commission.
it is essential to make this provision ambitious but realistic, and with some flexibility given the eu’s varied climate and economic conditions.
unified requirements like net zero-energy buildings would not exactly fulfil this requirement and would therefore be excessive.
however, prescribing a common methodology for the energy performance calculation itself could be counter-productive, causing delays in the implementation of the directive by several years due to the complexity of member states’ building codes.
the rapporteur also spoke about tyres that can play a significant part in reducing road transport energy intensity and emissions.
i believe we have really made remarkable progress on the energy dossier during this legislation and, most importantly, it is supported by our citizens and by industry.
having been at the hannover messe, we have seen a huge drive from industry for energy efficiency, not only in the areas we have now legislated on, but also in other branches of industry such as different appliances used for end consumption and to produce tools for different types of industry.
energy efficiency, energy and europe: these are the key words for what we have achieved during this legislation.
as a shadow rapporteur it has been a pleasure to work together with her, and i think it is fair to say that we have been able to achieve a liberalisation of the energy markets.
i think it is important to state that this is also in contrast to those in different countries who would like to have more protected borders regarding energy markets.
it is by opening up the markets that we can do something about climate change and can make the best use of renewables and nuclear power.
we can also ensure that we have a good supply of energy all over the union, binding countries and markets together.
i think the steps we are taking with this energy market package should be seen as important ones.
although there are more steps to be taken, we have contributed to the energy security of europe and to the fight against climate change.
it also requires more of us to deal with the discharge and to devote more time and energy to it.
− mr president, i think it is fair to say that we are now in a new era of energy policy, where there is a need for energy policy to be consistent with a policy for stopping climate change, and at the same time to be combined with a policy for energy security.
those three legs – energy policy, climate policy and energy security – must function together.
a letter has been sent from the committee on legal affairs to the committee on industry, research and energy saying that if it is a new proposal then there is a need for a new opinion from the group of experts.
we based our work on the western european nuclear regulators’ association (wenra) and on experience in the high level group on nuclear safety and waste management.
the union must look at the world market for cotton as a whole and enable eu consumers to buy cotton as cheaply as possible, regardless of where it was produced, as long as it is produced under certain ethical and environmental conditions.
− there are very good reasons to strive for better energy efficiency and lower emissions from our vehicles.
the reluctance of industry to increase the requirements for a certain level of energy labelling, for example for refrigerators, has led to the fact that the labelling system is today hopelessly complex and difficult to manage.
i believe that the eu can play an important role in reducing the environmental impact of vehicles.
eu policymakers should create sustainable and beneficial frameworks for society and business, not indulge in small-scale governance.
this parliament will be devoted to the internal market and cross-border environmental issues.
the amendment by the committee on the environment to allow member states to grant prior authorisation before the treatment is carried out may be considered by some to be a good thing.
to widen the scope from energy-consuming to energy-related products is, of course, good.
the problems we face in terms of resource use go beyond energy.
the fact is that the current growth model and concept is not sustainable.
who but the european union could help transform the concept to a more sustainable one?
as with energy efficiency, we could establish standards and norms for how to source materials, how to design products to facilitate recycling and reuse and enhance resource efficiency.
parliament is now making a very clear demand that the commission should review all relevant legislation so that we can protect consumers, workers and the environment from the negative effects of nano products and so that they can have a market that is safe and secure and developing.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
- this report proposes to amend an existing directive on ship-source pollution.
this is to enable criminal prosecution of pollution.
junilista supports measures to stop pollution from ships.
− the junilists consider that transnational environmental issues are one of the eu's most important tasks.
we believe that the amendments, better than the commission's proposal, offer the final consumer the opportunity to make smarter choices by improving information on the energy consumption and environmental impact of products.
we are, however, critical of certain individual letters in the amendments which seek to increase the level of detail in european energy policy.
cross border cooperation increases innovation and jobs, the only sustainable ways out of the crisis.
it's about energy efficiency in housing that creates jobs now but also makes housing better for the future.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
in the committee on the environment, we voted in favour of my opinion, which calls for, among other things, shorter transport and standby times at the slaughterhouses, investment in mobile slaughterhouses, the inclusion of fur animals in this regulation, the possibility for member states to take the lead and have stricter rules, and the independence and strengthening of the animal welfare inspectors and the proposed national reference centres for animal welfare.
we have three crises in the world and in europe right now: the financial crisis, the accompanying jobs crisis and the climate crisis.
it is very much to be criticised because it is an old-fashioned energy and above all the time factor.
finally, madam president, i would like to thank commissioner fischer boel for an incredibly good job and commissioner piebalgs, with whom i have worked very closely in the committee on industry and who has personally meant an incredible amount to the energy package, the climate package and what we have achieved in this area in these five years.
- the commission's ambition to increase investment in energy infrastructure is the latest example of the hubris that has infected the officials at berlaymont.
in addition, there is no support for measures to improve energy efficiency.
the commission proposed at an early stage that €500 million be allocated to 'sustainable cities', a proposal which was subsequently withdrawn.
the 'sustainable cities' aid had enabled extensive efforts to expand district heating and cogeneration and to improve the housing stock.
such measures would be cost-effective, would reduce emissions and create new jobs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the junilist is in favour of the completion of the internal market and supports the search for solutions at eu level to the environmental challenges facing europe.
we have a climate crisis that has already created climate refugees.
investments in green technologies are needed which besides creating the necessary new jobs also contribute to growth and tackle climate change, which is one of the most important tasks for humanity and for europe.
you have the power today to send a strong signal to our citizens that we are now building a people's europe, a social europe, to show both our citizens and the world that the eu is ready to take on its responsibility for global justice, for human rights and for global environmental responsibility, and to show the power we have with our ballot paper to send the signal that the citizens of europe expect from this parliament.
as regards the climate issue, which will be our main subject of work before the copenhagen summit, i would like to say that it is true that there is still a lot to be done.
we have analysed exactly how we have to think about climate change in our development work.
it is not possible to pursue development without also seeing the climate change and how it is already affecting poor parts of our planet.
so we cannot separate development policy from climate policy, but they are interrelated and must work together.
we must be able to deliver answers to the citizens who want to see us act on the financial crisis and on climate issues.
we are all politically active and we know that in the political environment, where we become introverted and discuss names and leadership, our citizens perceive it as if we have turned our backs on them.
so i share your approach to have a more coordinated european plan, namely to get out of this crisis and to build this kind of smart green growth we want; but at the same time we have to accept that we have 27 national budgets, we have 27 finance ministers, we have 27 national banks apart from our european central bank, and it is very important to strengthen the euro and to have economic policies and financial policies that are sustainable.
finally, on the question of climate change, once again we can always have more ambition.
we can always have more ambition, but the european union is leading the fight against climate change in the world.
let us now try to convince others, because we need others because the problem of climate change is not just a european problem, it is a problem for our planet.
we are now living in a new era of change, with a new treaty, the climate issue requiring a coherent policy that can have a global impact and the economic crisis.
it is about jobs, it is about dramatically widening disparities, it is about a generation of young people going straight into unemployment and it is of course about the environmental and climate crisis.
you also have a surprisingly good climate rhetoric.
what i'm looking for now is, of course, climate science as well.
you often talk about europe and sweden being responsible for a small share of the world's emissions, but if we are only eight percent of the world's population in the eu countries, and we emit 30 percent, then it is also our responsibility to take a big part of the climate work seriously.
how do you proceed with the ippc directive on industrial emissions?
how do you go about setting energy efficiency standards for buildings and how do you go about airlines not being able to continue to emit and not have to pay the 14 billion euros in energy taxes that they should be paying?
politically, of course, i share the presidency's view of the two major crises - the economic crisis and the climate crisis - and these are the priority issues, of course.
the economic crisis and the climate crisis are not predetermined destiny.
it is the same economic policy that does not take social or environmental considerations into account.
the challenges are many in these stormy times: a severe economic downturn, the uncertainty surrounding the lisbon treaty and the negotiations ahead of the copenhagen climate summit.
energy policy, as some have said, requires both realism and solidarity.
of course, i am very happy and proud to see my government in the swedish presidency and i also think that there is a lot of good in the programme in terms of solving the climate jobs, the financial crisis, the copenhagen conference, the baltic sea strategy, community policy, enlargement, iceland, croatia, turkey, etc.
if we want to have a good international climate agreement, we have to listen to other countries.
if we realize that we need, firstly, the eu and other countries to take greater responsibility for reducing our emissions at home, and secondly, the eu and other member states to give concrete expression to how we will contribute financially to the climate action of poorer countries.
the council of ministers must also recognize this, and i would therefore like to ask the following two questions: is the swedish presidency prepared to contribute to a good international climate agreement by doing more of the eu's emission reductions at home?
when will concrete proposals be made for financing climate action in poor countries?
this is also an important environmental issue which may be said to require its copenhagen meeting.
the automotive industry is the engine of the european economy and it is important that decisions are taken on the basis of long-term objectives for the development of a sustainable european automotive industry.
we are living in a financial crisis and an environmental and climate crisis.
the economic crisis calls for a new global order with a balanced regulatory framework that makes it possible to overcome the climate crisis.
it is very gratifying that the environment is a top priority in the new baltic sea strategy.
the baltic sea suffers from two major acute environmental problems.
the problem is that the baltic sea needs a healthy ecosystem.
it is, of course, unacceptable that people in europe can lose their energy supply in the middle of winter, or that people are forced into unemployment because the industries in which they work cannot afford to pay the high energy prices and are therefore forced to lay off people or simply have to shut down their businesses.
so it is vital that we make wise decisions to safeguard our energy supply.
at the same time, the requirements for the large infrastructure projects required must be unambiguous in terms of both environmental impact and country independence.
environmental impact assessments must be carried out by reliable and independent bodies before large projects are allowed to start.
i regret, and i think it is deplorable, that there is so little on solving the climate crisis in this resolution and also in the material from the g-20 summit.
there is also mention of the tobin tax, which i think might be a new way of financing both development aid and helping developing countries when it comes to climate issues.
one is, of course, as we have already talked about, the financing of climate action in developing countries.
reusing money already pledged jeopardizes the possibility of a global climate agreement.
to achieve this, it is not enough for the industrialized world to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent.
if you include the entire production chain, about 40 percent of all greenhouse gas emissions come from our food production.
we must recognize that agriculture and forestry are probably one of the most important keys to tackling the emissions problem.
the climate refugees are gathering.
i wonder then: will you offer 35 to 40 billion euros a year in new climate aid?
will you exclude nuclear power and carbon dioxide storage from eligible projects?
the world is now fighting three major crises: the financial crisis, the jobs crisis and the climate crisis.
we have three crises that we have to solve simultaneously: the climate crisis, the jobs crisis and the financial crisis.
in the face of high unemployment, it is of course good to make investments early on which should be made anyway and which help to build europe into a genuine single market, for example in the area of energy infrastructure.
we are open to discussion, but it goes without saying that it would be pointless to take money away from other priority areas which also contribute to employment, lifelong learning, energy and climate development, etc.
we must also find the time and the energy and the political planning to have a common european agricultural policy which is robust, which is durable, which is flexible and which eliminates the worst consequences of the price instability we can expect.
the first point i would like to raise is the climate issue.
but it is not enough if we cannot include china, india and a whole host of other countries that are not currently participating in the joint climate commitment.
but i am concerned that there is a growing alarm that the copenhagen climate summit will not be the success that so many have hoped for and that has characterised many of the speeches in this debate and the questions to fredrik reinfeldt.
while the council reaffirms that the developed world must reduce its emissions by 80-95% by 2050, achieving this requires ambitious commitments in the near future, and to achieve this, the issue of financing for action in developing countries must be resolved.
it is the countries that have contributed least to climate change that will suffer the most from its effects, and if the funding is not resolved, there will be no climate agreement.
i just recognized this from when we were negotiating the climate goals.
the climate targets that we proposed and worked for in this parliament had been both declared dead and buried, not once but perhaps ten times, when we got the final decision.
the same is true of the climate package.
it's been declared dead and buried by those who are actually against the climate goals.
the poor world is not responsible for global warming.
the second myth is that labelling provides consumers with relevant information and consumer protection and promotes environmental interests, as if it were a matter of geography.
this has nothing to do with competitiveness, but is only enhanced by open markets and a good business climate.
world leaders, the european council and even the prime minister in charge of the swedish presidency seem to prioritize short-term political gains at home over long-term environmental gains at the global level.
among other things, we need clear information on the financing of climate action in developing countries.
secondly, when we talk about the funding: a large part of the money is expected to come from emissions trading.
it is in copenhagen that three things in particular need to be specified and made legally binding commitments: (1) how much each industrialised country will limit its emissions by 2020. the science suggests that we should be approaching 40% reductions, which is not only something we can do, but also something that will make us more competitive and create more green jobs.
it is important that the swedish presidency is also ready to change its mind and fight so that those who are most affected by climate change do not also suffer even more from hunger.
but the criticism must be addressed, because many now conclude that the member states are happy to see the eu function as a simple intergovernmental coordination body, not as a separate political level tasked with finding common solutions to major challenges: growth, jobs, peace and the environment.
it's about transportation and energy infrastructure.
we need to solve the issue of climate finance at least partly through the eu budget and we need to prepare for future enlargement.
however, since this resolution opposes a change in the current european agricultural aid system (which could benefit the climate, the world's poor and europe's farmers), we have seen no alternative but to abstain.
we believe that the remaining three years of budgetary negotiations will be a pain in the ass if no change is made, especially considering that we are facing both a new enlargement and new major commitments in the field of climate.
we only stand for 13% of global emissions.
we updated just yesterday the reduction of emissions that has been done in sweden since 1990. we are now down to -12%.
in fact, if there is a field where we can be proud of the leadership role of the european union, it is precisely on climate change.
the european union has announced its intentions through legislation which is already binding: legislation which originated from the european commission, which received the support of the european council and of this parliament, and – unilaterally and unconditionally – the european union has already put the reduction of greenhouse gases at 20% by 2020. no other player has done anything comparable so far.
that cannot be done only by europe, because europe is responsible for about 14% of global emissions, and the trend is to go down in relevant terms.
so, even if europe, tomorrow, stops completely its greenhouse gas emissions, it will not solve the problem.
the environmental movement is disappointed that sweden has not stood up for environmental issues.
sweden has rather taken a step backwards rather than seizing the opportunity to push for higher environmental and climate ambitions.
the fact that sweden has not been given a more important role at the climate summit in copenhagen is due to the fact that prime minister reinfeldt himself, for party tactical reasons, played down expectations for the summit at an early stage.
but more serious than that, it undermined the prospects for a good climate deal.
the proposal to introduce a euro coin to curb emissions from lorry traffic has stalled, as has climate policy.
the council acts as a crawling hole for the forestry, shipping and aviation industries in the climate negotiations.
where are the emissions targets?
now we're being told that the documents the council is working on are further weakening our emissions targets.
the council's climate policy seems as crude as a blue whale fishing net, or worse!
they're working against climate change.
so at least make sure vattenfall does its job and stop questioning the environmental laws of the eu and germany.
the second area is about climate and, i would argue, the betrayal of poor countries that it means to use aid money to repair the worst damage the rich world has suffered and is suffering.
even though the unfccc, the bali plan and the kyoto protocol say that money for climate finance should be new.
the copenhagen climate summit can also move in the right direction if we in the european parliament want it to.
in the fall, we've had both a climate crisis and a jobs crisis to deal with.
i am particularly pleased that the eu energy labelling of household products has now been introduced.
other examples of legislation now in place are energy efficiency requirements for buildings and eco-labelling of car tyres.
now the final, biggest and most long-term task is the completion of the copenhagen climate summit.
we are in favour of further research in this area, but we believe that too much emphasis should not be placed on this technology without first also comparing ccs with other existing methods of reducing co2 emissions.
such a comparison then allows us to invest eu funds where they have the greatest impact in combating climate change.