the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the clean energy package is an important building block for a successful energy transition and for achieving climate goals. the three reports we are discussing today are indicative of the way forward for the sustainable implementation of this package. the concrete targets we adopt in the renewable energy, energy efficiency and governance of the energy union will shape the structure of the european energy industry, the structure of many industries, competitiveness, employment and consumer behaviour for decades to come, namely by 2050. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the union's energy union strategy. and if it does, it will be with investments in the quadrillion-dollar range, which are detrimental to the competitiveness of european companies, which are hampering economic growth and threatening security of supply. a recent study by the bdi demonstrates this for german industry. the narrow vote in the itre committee on the energy efficiency directive has shown that there is no clear consensus in parliament on the new climate targets either. increasing energy efficiency to 40% by 2030 is neither economically nor technically feasible. this is confirmed by an impact assessment carried out by the commission. increasing the target to 40% would require additional investments of around eur 500 billion and increase the overall system by eur 125 billion by 2030. however, efficiency gains are increasingly difficult to achieve with efficiency and therefore not arbitrarily controllable. this debate on the three dossiers is certainly not conducive to planning security. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the commitments made by the member states in the context of the union's climate change strategy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister! presidencies come and go every six months a routine procedure. the union is nevertheless concerned about who holds the presidency and how it is held. there are presidencies that make themselves known, that talk about themselves, and there are those that do not push themselves into the limelight. the latter are usually the most efficient and successful. the estonian presidency has quietly steered european affairs forward and inclusive, in accordance with the motto it set for its presidency: unity through balance. with this performance, estonia has given itself the most important gift for the centenary of its independence. the estonian presidency has made important progress in the following areas: brexit has been set in motion. at least now we know what we're talking about. the idea of europe finding a common defence doctrine has also become concrete. there's a lot of uncertainty. estonia has been a key driver of the digital agenda. the digital summit in tallinn was the highlight of your presidency and we have taken a very, very big step towards the goal of a digital single market. in this sense, europe has become estonian. we are not yet, mr prime minister, as you wished when you took office in june, at the point where the free movement of data becomes the fifth fundamental freedom. it's a bit more than that, but other people have slowed down, not you. and it's also slowed others down on other problems that we'd like to solve. the question of asylum is something that still needs to be resolved urgently. i hope that the next two presidencies will take action here.
in writing. the estonian presidency of the council in the second half of 2017 has taken a major step towards a european digital single market. agreements have been reached at eu level on the free movement of data, the development of the 5g network and e-government services. a specific electronic signature has been developed to allow the application of certified electronic signatures to eu legislation. a common cybersecurity strategy is designed to protect european citizens and businesses from the risks associated with the free flow of data. the new measures are aimed at ensuring a free and legally regulated internet. the agreement on vat for e-commerce has made cross-border sales even more efficient and fair. it has become easier to tax companies that do business online without a clear physical location. these companies are now taxed in the countries where the effective profits are made. the estonian presidency has taken many measures to make the european union a promising environment for innovative companies to invest in a digital future. the eu must create the best conditions for companies, especially smes, to invest in new technologies such as artificial intelligence, big data processing and blockchain.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. colombia, like all of south america and the mercosur countries in particular, is undoubtedly a very important partner for the european union. it is also important that we contribute positively to this peace process here, within the limits of our possibilities. but we should not be saying nice things about colombia that are not nice. the question i have is: is the effort we put into it really proportionate to the results we see? i do not think so, because the european union and its member states and the taxpayers have so far invested 1.5 billion euros in this project, and what we are seeing is not exactly exhilarating. measures and projects have been decided to make this possible. the peace treaty of havana was signed. the problem is that major measures have been decided upon, but they are not being implemented and, in the end, they are not being monitored. violence is on the rise again - we've heard this - violence against ordinary farmers, violence against journalists, and the security situation in colombia is as dire today as we have known it in the past. and that's just the tip of the iceberg. these developments cannot encourage us to see such a lack of progress in peacebuilding in an eu-supported project. we cannot have that in our minds, and that is why i say that agreements must be respected by all parties and that implementation must be monitored with vigour.
i have to say, madam president, iran has been occupying this house a lot lately. you can either look at this fact positively or you can look at it negatively. negative, because there are obvious problems. positive, because we're talking about it constructively. this constructive dialogue is the imperative of the hour and we must adhere to it. for too long, the relationship between iran and europe, europe and iran, however one wants to see it, has been disturbed. we've been living side by side for almost 40 years. the nuclear agreement has created a basis on which we can begin to build a zone of stability in the region. we need this urgently because the problems of the region are directly affecting europe. stability - this is the lesson of our painful history - can only exist if there are democratic conditions, an economy and economic prosperity, and if states do not use violence in their relations with one another. the nuclear agreement is an important step which others must follow. first of all, we must put an end to the arms race in the region. the protests in iran have their roots in the unsatisfactory economic situation. many people probably expected the agreement to bring about an immediate economic upswing. all this has not happened because the effects of the sanctions are still there. but the protests have also made it abundantly clear that people are concerned about democracy, the rule of law and human rights. it is positive that the reformist forces are in principle in favour of the right to freedom of expression, but this is in contradiction with the use of violence against demonstrators, the many arrests and the blocking of social networks. we expect those responsible to follow their words with action. the human rights dialogue must be continued and intensified. it is a positive sign that the new law against drug trafficking will lead for the first time to a drastic reduction in the number of death sentences. of course, we will continue to call for the abolition of the death penalty, but it is an important first step if at least 4 000 people are not executed. many such steps will be necessary and the people of iran expect them, and it is our duty to acknowledge and promote these positive developments. but we must not lose our patience.
i have to say, madam president, the days of unrest in iran can be seen as a necessary signal to the iranian government that reforms must be implemented. iranian president rouhani also called for the release of detained citizens and now reaffirmed the right to demonstrate, according to der spiegel magazine. this reaction of the president clearly shows that there are forces in iran that have a will to reform, and that even without the patronage of the west. i wish there were such forces in saudi arabia, qatar, bahrain etc. but right now, at this very moment, the american president trump is calling us and threatening to blow up the nuclear deal, and he is making a junktim, he is making demands such as for iran to give up the development of conventional weapons - a provocation, because what sovereign state would accept that? perhaps - ironically - mr trump is dreaming that in the future iran will buy american weapons systems with open arms like the saudis, and then the financial blockade on iran would certainly be lifted. europe should absolutely support this nuclear agreement, commit itself to it, not only because it is supposed to keep its word, but also because withdrawal from it would be a fatal signal with regard to north korea. why should pyongyang seek a diplomatic solution with the west when the whole world can see live how the beacon of democracy, how america - or rather the trump administration - deals with existing agreements, even though the international atomic energy agency testifies that iran actually complies with all the conditions prescribed in the agreement. well, trump doesn't even want to discuss and negotiate, and now he's trying to exploit the union. it is feared that trump's policies are destabilizing the entire middle east. russia and china will only increase their influence. europe would have to live up to its own claims, and therefore the recent activities and also the commitments of mrs mogherini on the nuclear deal are to be fully supported. what does europe need? europe needs an independent, vigorous policy to ensure israel's right to exist on the one hand, but also to bring its rivals iran and saudi arabia to the same table. if europe fails to do so, it will be relegated to the sidelines, and will ultimately have to leave the field to russia and china.
i have to say, madam president, to jeopardize the iran nuclear deal, as donald trump has done time and time again, is not only narrow-minded, but grossly negligent. president trump called on the europeans a few days ago to renegotiate the treaty. just, the deal is not perfect, but it's the best we have at the moment in terms of international agreements with iran. this does not mean that we should not start to think about what can happen after the expiry of the nuclear agreement. the current agreement has been negotiated for 13 years. of course, we are also concerned about the protests in iran and, above all, the reaction to them. we must, as the european union, insist that the right to freedom of expression be respected and that human rights be respected. overall, the eu should speak with one voice on iran, including to donald trump. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to combat terrorism in all its forms.
madam president, although my language as an austrian member of the parliament is german, i want to speak in english, so that the enormous number of people in iran who follow events via the internet and who want great change in their country may understand me better. let me express my deep respect for the thousands who have been arrested, and the many dozens who have been murdered at the recent legitimate uprising of the iranian population. this uprising is one of the most important developments in the middle east and i think we should get the message that brave – and mostly young – iranians wanted to express that the people of iran have had enough of their islamic regime. they wanted, right from the second day of the uprising, khamenei and rouhani to step down. we must understand what is going on there. by their slogans they clearly said that they are not interested in any of the ruling factions of this regime and they reject it. we can easily see a rather weak and fragile regime, despite its adventures in the region by meddling in iraq, syria and other countries in the region. this meddling in other countries is to cover its internal problems. i think the eu and our european external action services under mrs mogherini should really revise the current policies towards iran. in reality there are no moderates in this regime. under rouhani’s government, around 3 500 people have been hanged, which makes iran the number one state executioner in the world, per capita. so it is absolutely a very bad policy for our long-term interests and not just morally problematic to be on the side of this religious dictatorship. we expect our high representative to tell the regime that we will not accept any of executions, and especially those of people arrested in these protests. i was quite pleased by the position adopted in the united states, and especially by prominent leaders of the democratic party who expressed their support for the uprising, and by the agreement with that position, including from nancy pelosi, jack schumer and even bernie sanders. without any doubt, the position of my republican friends is consequently against the regime. colleagues, you may know that the supreme leader of iran, ali khamenei, was silent for 13 days, and when he finally spoke, he blamed this uprising on the opposition under the leadership of ms rajavi. even the top leader of the regime has admitted this, so maybe the people should take this seriously and support this opposition, just as we support a free iran.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. reform of dual-use legislation is urgently needed. the aim is to revise the export rules for dual-use goods which can be used for both civilian and military purposes. in particular, the internet and communication technologies must be given greater consideration in export controls. during the arab spring, it became clear that these very technologies were deliberately used by dictatorial regimes against human rights activists and journalists, leading to human rights violations and persecution. the s&ds have therefore been strongly in favour of a system which is practical, transparent and fit for the future, and which protects the competitiveness of european industry. european trade must be based on clear values, with human rights at their core.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we are to advance and strengthen human rights through trade agreements, we need finally enforceable sustainability chapters with sanction mechanisms. this is the only way to show the public that we are serious about trade for all. critics often cite the us/guatemala example to explain why such a sanctions mechanism does not work. i am firmly convinced that the european union could create an effective mechanism which would provide sanctions as a last resort for settling disputes. in most cases, it won't matter at all. but the mere possibility of sanctions has already led to improvements on the ground in the past, as in the case of gsp+ for el salvador. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental policy. we are not going to get anywhere with voluntary action and dialogue alone. we need sanctions mechanisms in trade agreements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to take this opportunity to wish the bulgarian people and state a very happy new year and good luck with the presidency of the council. we know that the european union has been stuck in a reform process for over a year and nothing is happening. this started with the referendum in the uk, which has since been a shock, and we have had five scenarios on the table for over a year, from less cooperation to complete centralisation, where finally the states, the parliaments, the people, the institutions should talk about where we should go in the future. i miss that resolution, and i can only hope that what happened yesterday will not happen, namely that the united kingdom has been offered to stay here when it does not want to. that we do not have to repeat what happened in ireland with the lisbon vote, where a result was not liked and the result and the vote are repeated until it is liked - that is not the right way! i hope that bulgaria will be a partner in the reform process. i wish you all the best and thank you for your commitment.
in writing. the motto of the bulgarian presidency united we stand strong is a good one to use to tackle the important challenges of the coming months, because only united and together can we make europe strong. it will also have to be a question of defending the rule of law in europe, which is increasingly under threat in individual member states. austria will take over the council presidency in six months' time. and we have big challenges ahead of us: from the conclusion of the brexit negotiations, to eu-wide tax harmonisation, to the urgent need to forge alliances for a social europe. we shall not get anywhere with the idea of a minimal europe of black and blue in austria. this is a slap in the face to the europeans. if we do not reduce the ever-widening disparities in wealth, labour rights and opportunities for advancement, europe is in danger of breaking up. the 'austria first' approach is the wrong approach to austria's important tasks in making europe capable of action.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we've known for some time now - almost exactly a year now - that it's possible to spread lies and fake news from the white house. however, there is a difference between a self-centered politician who believes that this is to improve his own standing, and foreign media companies who deliberately spread false information to destabilize countries. as my group's shadow rapporteur for the european parliament's report on anti-eu propaganda, i have dealt extensively with this propaganda and the targeted disinformation. it was clear that some companies, like sputnik and russia today, were making a significant contribution to the spread of misinformation. it is, of course, undeniable that the kremlin is not averse to this dissemination of propaganda, especially when it funds channels like russia today. europe therefore needs a strong strategy. this is particularly important to protect against outside influence and to counter the destabilisation and radicalisation of european citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to thank you for the strategy you have presented to us. because between plastic is fantastic and ban on all plastics, there's a long way to go. what you have proposed is a very balanced approach. we don't want to do without plastic. i think plastic will continue to have a place in our lives. but the partly reckless and often very irresponsible use of plastics in our society, in our economy, has made plastics and the products made from them a threat to our health, to the environment and to people. the strategy aims to ensure that, on the one hand, products are produced safely, that recycling and reuse of products is meaningful and desirable for people, the environment and health, and that, on the other hand, products that do not meet the concept of sustainability are removed from the market. and that, of course, includes all microplastics. i would ask you to take real action in this respect as soon as possible so that we can have legislation as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, we should be glad today that the marrakesh treaty is finally being ratified by europe. this international treaty makes current literature and art accessible to blind and visually impaired people - something that is actually taken for granted. this treaty was signed back in 2013, and four years later europe finally has to ratify it a long period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should be glad that we have finally succeeded, but it should be a lesson to focus on the common and not on competence disputes. unfortunately, this happens far too often in european politics, such as - because the commissioner is here - in asylum and migration policy.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. more labour mobility is a commonly expressed wish in europe, as lack of mobility is one of the limitations of the internal market. but in some areas we have more mobility than one would expect or even wish. i have recently been studying extensively reports of thousands of women working as modern slaves in agricultural areas in sicily. these women are barely paid for hard work, even though they toil twelve hours a day in the scorching heat. police reports say that some 7,500 women, mostly from romania, are being held in these conditions as modern slaves. unfortunately, we all know that these official figures are just the tip of the iceberg for victims of abuse and exploitation. when these women should be able to rest after a hard day's work, they are often confronted with another form of abuse: sexual harassment or exploitation by the landlord, the employment agency, their acquaintances or friends. we have to face the facts and really look ourselves in the eye and say, modern slavery exists! not thousands of kilometres away on other continents, but right in the middle of us in the european union - and not just in italy, but in other member states as well. two thirds of these victims are eu citizens, most of them women and girls, and they are often trafficked across borders for the purpose of sexual exploitation. the member states have a legal and, above all, a moral obligation to protect these people who come from one country to another and are in danger of being abused in the worst possible way. eu law requires all to carry out regular checks to identify cases of exploitation and abuse, to protect the victims and to punish the perpetrators and tormentors. as co-rapporteur of the report on the implementation of the victims' protection directive, i will be more committed to the protection of those affected. victims need targeted support, information on their rights, reliable law enforcement and consequences for their tormentors.
the commission has already done so. a clear commitment to the single market and the four freedoms - which of course includes the free movement of services. and yet, that is why this debate is so important today there are areas that cannot be simply subject to the free market economy. this is the whole area of social care for me, and in particular health care. that is why i am pleased with the speeches we have had today. we need regulation in certain areas, we need harmonization, but also in terms of consumer protection, transparency and the prevention of distortion of competition. i believe that this is a good, balanced paper, and one with which we can fully agree. but i would like to make one further comment: if i am afraid that we are going to have intra-european migration flows, then the answer to that cannot be to block the free movement of services, but we must look at the roots of this intra-european migration and we must not apply austerity measures in the areas of structural or cohesion support to the extent that we are driving people away from the regions where they would actually like to live and work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the ecb's annual report 2016 identifies four key risks to financial stability in the euro area. these are the rise in global risk premia, the low profitability of banks, the sustainability of government and corporate debt and the liquidity risks in the area of investment funds. unfortunately, this initial situation has not changed much for 2018. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the measures in force. the ecb now holds significantly more italian and french debt than is required by the national central banks' capital key. this usually indicates that the yields on these bonds are under high upward pressure. in addition, structural problems exist in the euro-zone member states. economic growth and unemployment are not moving in the same direction, and inflation is also below target. in this context, the econ committee adopted an own-initiative report last november calling for greater transparency and accountability to parliament, and thus for better monetary policy dialogue. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. i look forward to hearing your specific proposals.
the commission has already done so. i join in condemning these fraudulent attempts which are unworthy of man and also of animals. but i might also like to turn to another problem today. i would ask you to consider in the commission whether we could not introduce a general ban on smoking in cars, because every day hundreds of thousands of children, minors and others who do not wish to do so are sitting in cars and are exposed to high concentrations of pollutants. some member states have already introduced legislation to take this into account. i would ask you to take measures here in the interests of protecting children, minors, but also to protect society from the dangers of smoking, namely inattention in road traffic. the indignation against industry today is justified, but i think it would also be worth trying to improve everyday life here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we adopt the geoblocking regulation tomorrow, we will be one step closer to the digital single market. geo-blocking is diametrically opposed to the objective of a common internal market. it is absurd that artificial boundaries should be set up for intangible goods. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. we have achieved a great deal, and i would like to join in the thanks to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. but we should not rest on that. we have a lot of work to do. our goal must be a truly borderless internet that applies to all offerings and platforms. that is why our current work on copyright legislation is so important. we must carry it out responsibly and not lose sight of the pan-european dimension.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. that is a subject that is very much in the public domain. if we remember that we have a vat gap of 170 billion euros alone, if we remember that european taxpayers lose 50 billion euros through crossborder tax fraud alone, and if we remember that we are a single internal market, and if we remember the work of the taxe i, taxe ii and pana committees, yes, this is a topic that belongs here. we also need a european vat area. it is therefore right that we strengthen cooperation between member states and authorities as tax fraudsters increasingly operate across borders. it is right that we should create a uniform system of vat rates. but in doing so, we must reduce the 250 exemptions to eliminate further inequalities. it is right that we introduce a simplified system, especially for smes, when the complexity of the system is holding back growth and employment. it is right that we should create a new and better system if vat is to be a growing source of public revenue for the european union too, because we must rely more on own resources in the future financing of the european union. we look forward to working with you. there are things to be worked out, but the approach is the right one.
in writing. the european commission proposes an eu-wide reform of vat rates and collection. the vat gap between expected and actual vat revenues in the eu is estimated at eur 150 billion per year, due to inefficient tax collection, uncoordinated cooperation between member states and fragmented vat regimes. cross-border fraud costs member states €50 billion a year. the commission therefore wants to reform the current vat system to create a fairer and more efficient tax system in the european union. an important element of the vat package is an eu system for simplified vat compliance. the cost of tax compliance for european smes operating across borders is 11% higher than for smes operating exclusively domestically. the commission's proposals would reduce compliance costs by 18% by simplifying registration, accounting and bookkeeping rules for smes with a turnover of less than €2 million per year. we need to ensure that the eu continues to work on better cooperation between european tax authorities and reduces compliance costs for european companies without opening the door to a european vat. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed greater flexibility in reducing vat rates for certain goods and services, which is linked to further harmonisation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. research, development and innovation are particularly important in the field of clean energy, as they are the only way to ensure the industrial leadership and competitiveness of european companies and to create sustainable growth and jobs. the european union is now a world leader in high-quality low-emission energy innovation, energy efficiency innovation, renewable energy, smart grids, storage and the development of clean technologies. however, to remain competitive in the global marketplace in the future, clean energy innovation needs to be accelerated. the range of optimisation is wide - from simplifying access to research funding through ppp projects to translating knowledge into economically viable products. and: we need a regulatory and financial framework that is consistent with the energy roadmap 2050 and the paris agreement. the main points to be taken into account - and mr buzek has done so in his report - are the coherence of action at eu level, financial security, safeguarding global leadership and the participation of citizens. for europe to remain at the top, we need more money, faster and better clean energy r&d.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to welcome prime minister plenković back to the european parliament. prime minister, you came to discuss with us the future of europe and to do this we must know where we come from. like many of us, you come from a region, the balkans, which has been at the centre of european history. i would even say it has been its destiny region. its history has taught that peace in europe can never be taken for granted. the balkans also tell us that history does not provide the answers. moving forward means no longer being obsessed with the wars of the past. a european perspective for the western balkans is the right answer. our group is supporting this endeavour by the commission. from your government, prime minister, we expect a clear commitment to peace in the balkans and respect for neighbouring countries’ borders and integrity. we also call on croatia to respect arbitration decisions between croatia and slovenia. history teaches us that a good future is not possible with extreme nationalism and racism. i am deeply worried by the recent racist attacks in italy and i am sad to say that they could also have happened in other member states. our union is not just a market: it is built on values, the rule of law and democracy, and it does not always deliver. a european democracy needs more open and inclusive institutions. we need bold decisions in order to overcome mistrust and apathy. let us give our electorate the opportunity to choose a transnational list, giving people the right to choose this democracy. we also support the idea of a spitzenkandidat for the commission presidency, as it improves participation, but we should not be obsessed with institutional reforms. sometimes it is hard for ordinary people to follow what we are discussing. institutions must serve the people’s interests and not the other way around. europe has to deliver by changing our lives for the better. too many people in europe are unhappy with the status quo. they want decent jobs, safe pensions and fair treatment when they are sick. all of us want a good future for our children. it is time to engage for a more social europe, with a european minimum wage, with no social dumping, and with better and longer maternity and paternity leave. this is why the multiannual financial framework (mff) will be crucial. brexit cannot be an excuse to undermine the european budget. the union must have more resources, its own resources, in particular to accompany the ecological transition towards a new, more sustainable development model. there is no future for a continent when too many young people are stuck in precariousness and unemployment. we need to invest in the future. we need a strong initiative for public investment and we have to rethink the dogma of austerity. after brexit, a new-found awareness of the importance of the european union is growing. we cannot disappoint our citizens again: they will not give us a second chance. we must deliver now, but we can do so only if we are looking forward – not looking to the past – and in a courageous and inclusive way. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the inhuman practice of cutting female genitals in fact reflects a deep-rooted inequality between the sexes and constitutes an extreme form of discrimination against women and girls. there is no place for such a practice in a civilised society. today is the international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation (fgm). however, it is important to remember that we have to fight this human rights violation every single day of the year. this is not just happening outside our continent. this is a practice – as we heard from our colleagues here in the house – also inside the eu, probably in most of our member states. i want member states to mainstream the prevention of fgm into all sectors: health, social work, asylum, education, child protection and media. cross—sectoral cooperation is the key to fighting this inhuman practice. this cooperation will serve to disseminate acquired knowledge and foster an enabling environment for collective social change and, above all, it will contribute to an improvement in the well—being of young women and girls where fgm is practised. actions speak louder than words. we have a shared responsibility to fight this practice, and i thank the commissioner for presenting to us the concrete measures taken in order to mainstream fgm prevention. the istanbul convention is the first treaty to recognise that fgm exists in europe and that it needs to be systematically addressed. therefore, i urge the member states which have still not ratified the istanbul convention finally to do so. i call on the bulgarian presidency to accelerate the process on their side, because it is their issue too. it is highly important that the eu cooperates in this matter and finds a unified approach to fighting violence against women and to fighting female genital mutilation. the time for zero tolerance is now. (applause)
in writing. female genital mutilation is a cruel violation of the human rights of girls and women. worldwide, over 200 million people are affected by this devastating form of violence. up to 3 million girls are circumcised every year. female genital mutilation has lifelong, sometimes life-threatening consequences for the victims. it is a worldwide problem, which does not stop at the gates of europe. it is estimated that over 500 000 women in europe are affected by this violence. female genital mutilation must come to an end! let's work together to leave girls exactly as they were born: perfect.
in writing. according to the world health organization, 140 million women and girls worldwide are currently living with the consequences of female genital mutilation. this is a serious form of violence against women and girls and has lifelong, sometimes life-threatening consequences for the victims. up to 3 million additional girls are circumcised each year. this cruel violation of women's human rights does not stop before europe either. the european institute for gender equality estimates that there are victims in at least 13 eu countries and more than 500 000 women affected. female genital mutilation is a criminal offence in all eu member states. however, more than laws are needed to finally put an end to this traditionally based violence against women and girls.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in september 2017, commission president juncker called for an enlargement perspective for the western balkans to ensure stability there. it has now become clear that this, at first sight, laudable idea is more difficult to implement than it might seem in the flowery theory. the commission itself regularly points out that the rule of law in a number of candidate countries is - to put it politely - in dire need of reform. the commissioners, including mr hahn, have to deal almost monthly with the fact that organized crime and corruption are widespread at all levels of government and administration. in addition, of course, the commission itself acknowledged, in march 2017, upon my written request, that it was aware of the is recruitment camp in montenegro and, in may of the same year, again due to my concerns, had to admit islamic radicalization in the western balkans. so too does the german federal intelligence service. mr president, you may have missed that i have one and a half minutes to take this interruption into account, thank you very much! the german federal intelligence service has also found that saudi arabia, in particular, is using enormous financial resources to install a radical salafist-wahhabi islam in the western balkans. i don't think we should suffer from a loss of reality. the european union is once again ignoring its own concerns. and i predict that this planned and hasty enlargement will be the next ticking time bomb that the union will bring into its own house.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i very much welcome the western balkans strategy presented by you, commissioner, and by mrs mogherini. we austrians feel a special historical obligation to the people, regions and peoples of this region. but for us, the integration of the six countries of the western balkans is a political, an economic, a moral and a security issue. we can both benefit from it. we are therefore extending both hands to the countries of the western balkans, but the countries and governments themselves must take our hands. the mention of a possible date of accession for serbia and montenegro and all the other states is therefore neither a discount nor a relaxation of the accession criteria. it's an incentive, it's a motivating factor. moreover, i would prefer to join the european parliament elections in 2024 if the criteria are met because then people could already participate in the election for their house of commons. but there is still a lot of homework to be done, and the european union, for example, must also recognize the independence and sovereignty of kosovo as a state by all states. we must clarify these issues between serbia and kosovo, we must clarify the bilateral issues. we have a lot of work to do, but i am delighted to put this vision into practice and thus give europe even greater integrity and stability.
in writing. highest standards for eu enlargements: this also means that existing border conflicts in the western balkans must be resolved before accession, not afterwards. once before - and this was also pointed out by commission president juncker - these problems were simply pushed aside before inclusion. we can't let that mistake happen again. however, a possible accession by 2025 still requires a great deal of work. it must be ensured that such an accession process is guided not by a date but by the conditions that are met. a candidate for accession must meet the highest democratic standards. the eu has also made progress in the fight against corruption, especially in the areas of the rule of law, the judiciary, freedom of expression and the media. in the case of serbia, there are still open questions. the country's relations with kosovo are still not normalised. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to see clear democratic structures in montenegro. before enlargement takes place, we too must think about how we can strengthen the european institutions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area.
i have to say, madam president, the turkish intervention in afrin is disturbing and paradoxical. for a long time, it seemed that the syrian civil war was coming to an end, but the attack on afrin, which is against international law, means a renewed flare-up of fighting. the european union must not allow the kurdish people to be forced to live in a state of war. it is more than disturbing that behind these incredible activities there is a nato member state and the use of war material from other nato member states. it is scandalous that those who claim to be fighting terrorism are joined by islamist extremists. these are acts of indiscriminate violence against minorities, such as the yazidis, who have just escaped genocide. many innocent and uninvolved people - children - are victims of air raids. this has to stop!
i have to say, madam president, a week ago, a demonstration was held here in strasbourg against the situation in turkey and the invasion of afrin. today, a few hours ago, a participant in this demonstration was arrested for his participation in istanbul, turkey: mr selçuk duman, an austrian citizen, an eu citizen, who is being arrested in turkey for participating in a demonstration in the european union. according to my informal information, it's the third one in the last few days. i do not know how many eu citizens from other countries there are. we are no longer talking about human rights violations in turkey against turks, where europe is looking the other way. we're not just talking about the kurds being left behind, the yazidis being left behind, the alevis being left behind. the european union is also now dealing with eu citizens who are spied on in the union and systematically arrested in turkey. there's a step to be taken. we all know that turkey will not become a member of the european union in the next few decades. threatening that it won't happen is not going to be enough. i welcome you, commissioner, and i ask you to take this a step further: if we increase the pressure on erdoğan, we increase the pressure on turkey! there's this customs agreement that's important to turkey that would put pressure. let's put it to the vote. let us make it clear that if human rights continue to be violated and if turkey continues to behave in the international arena as it is doing now, the european union will withdraw from this customs agreement. let's increase the pressure!
i have to say, madam president, it is a matter of the european parliament. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. as a longtime journalist, i am particularly appalled by the fact that 148 journalists, publishers and authors are in prison. you've never seen an indictment - probably because the government is afraid to say it. the recent events in the city of afrin also show that turkey is literally moving beyond internationally recognized borders. the only thing that is certain is that only a fraction of the turkish population is on this course. i am therefore quite clear: we must make it clear to the progressive forces in the country that we are on their side, but on the other hand we must also make it clear that we demand the rule of law and reliability from the turkish side.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the situation in venezuela is both worrying and shocking. the people of the country - especially the children - are suffering from hunger and lack of access to medical care. inflation in the country has risen rapidly. looting happens every day because people can't afford food. leading opposition politicians are also in prison, under arrest, in exile or barred from running in the upcoming elections. these are unacceptable conditions. the european union has already taken action: sanctions have been imposed on venezuela. we must use all the means at our disposal to improve the situation in venezuela. respect for human rights and democratically elected institutions must be restored and political prisoners released. but above all, the human suffering on the ground must end as soon as possible.
mr president, i say to the commissioner that this should come as no surprise – a president who is throwing all conventional norms overboard has no empathy for the victims of his policy. and yes, that we are stuck in a mess in the middle east is certainly the result of us action or inaction, and now we come to unrwa. we all know that the united nations is doing an excellent job in the gaza strip and the west bank. without the dedicated support of the un we would have no schools, no hospitals and probably no food for about a million people who live under dire circumstances. the commitment of the european union to allocate an additional eur 42 million for the palestinian territories and east jerusalem is a very positive step. it is, in addition, an important signal by the european union at a time when the us administration is retreating more and more from its international commitments. it could and should also open a window for the eu to revert from being a mere payer to becoming more of a player in the middle east.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, i am speaking to you directly. i think you're right with george orwell: all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal. so i think it is quite remarkable that you let mr verhofstadt speak for 50 seconds about the time, when you turn others off after five seconds. in this context, we always talk about citizenship. colleagues, do you know what real citizenship would have meant in this case? real citizenship would have meant that we would have saved the 73 seats that would have become vacant after brexit. that would have been a real benefit to the citizens of europe. the plan is therefore - at least according to the committee - to allocate 27 seats among member states and the other 46 seats that remain or become vacant to transnational lists. i am very much looking forward to seeing how the council views this house's initiative. i find it very difficult to imagine that this will be accepted there. well, there's a lot of debate about the seating arrangements. but if it did, it would have been only logical and right to distribute these vacant seats in total among all the member states. 46 seats on transnational lists what does that mean? what do you think brings you closer to the people? i think you're making a huge mistake, if you're making that up. the consequence will be that these supposed 'top candidates' will end up coming only from the large member states, because there are then de facto votes to be won, with the consequence that in the small member states these top candidates will be relatively unknown. mr president, i think you will give me a few seconds of your time. but i know where this is going. it's heading for the state. but i can tell you this: you could have learned that from brexit - that's exactly what the people don't want.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the report is pragmatic, it is democratic, it is european, and above all it takes concerns seriously. i'm glad the seats will be more evenly distributed in the future. austria will have one more seat and thus the representation ratio will be restored. we are all citizens of the european union. we have common european interests: social, economic, fiscal and foreign policy. in order to safeguard these common european interests, we must also think and act in a european way. the transnational list of the european union contributes to this. the eu treaty, article 14 (2), states that the eu parliament is a body representing the citizens of the union. a pan-european constituency, cross-border european electoral programmes can help to bring this concept of union citizenship back to life and thus european democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i got five points. we welcome the new distribution of seats proposed in the report after the withdrawal of the united kingdom. less citizens in the eu means fewer representatives and a fairer distribution. second, we say yes to the top candidate model. it has strengthened the president of the commission, it has strengthened the commission, it has strengthened the european parliament and it has increased the influence of the citizens on the president of the commission. we all benefited from it. there must be no going back on the decisions of 2014. thirdly, the report continues the process of strengthening european democracy by creating a european electoral area and the european list initiative. european democracy is much more than the sum of local, regional and national democracies. there is a model of democracy. i therefore welcome the introduction of supplementary european lists, basic mandates on national lists, supplementary residual votes and secondary votes on european lists. fourthly, the european lists should be linked to the creation of european parties - we are a european party and parliamentary democracy. fifthly and finally, i regret that we are only discussing the european lists in theory, because the legal basis is not yet in place and there is no clear model on the table. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my question is: how do you see the fact that the political groups and the european parties give the opportunity to nominate different candidates and that they are then elected accordingly? will your group also make top candidates available for a correspondingly transparent selection of the best candidates?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we social democrats welcome today's debate and this is the right place to do so because we are concerned with the rule of law, democracy and human rights, and because the stability of eastern europe is important and the economic upswing now taking place must be accompanied by a consolidation of democracy. romania is an important country in this respect, a country with great potential. it is therefore not unimportant that fundamental criticism is voiced. the willingness to engage in discussion also means the will to seek solutions, to discuss everything openly and transparently. we welcome the fact that the romanian minister of justice has agreed to come here and regret that he cannot take part in the debate. we want to know what progress has been made in judicial reform over the past year. we have clear criteria for assessing whether the reforms are in conformity with the constitution, whether the reforms are in line with the european legal order and whether european standards, in particular those of the venice commission, are being respected. it is only when we are concrete that we succeed and that is the only way to solve the problems.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much. i would also like to thank mr denanot very warmly, because i think he has highlighted a very important point: this programme can also strengthen social security accordingly. do you think that small and mediumsized enterprises here will also have a chance to work with countries that are in urgent need here?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular, because i think it was not so easy to set up this framework in such a way that most interests could be taken into account. for me, from the development policy committee, this is of course a european union milestone that has been set here, where we see that we can actually make investments on the ground that help people. mr denanot has also said it well: this also brings about social progress, because small and mediumsized enterprises can get involved. i think it's very crucial that we can also promote the sustainable development goals, especially in the area of renewable energy, sdg7 or sdg6, where we can finally provide people with clean water and sanitation so that they can stay healthy and also produce healthy food in agriculture, investing in the future of these people and not just in consumption, which is quickly consumed and where the money often goes in the wrong channels. i would like to emphasize for the future that this is a great advantage not only for the people in these developing countries but also for our economy in europe, because new partnerships can be found here, because there is a return on investment, because the conditions have been created here to export our european model to other countries. i think we can be quite proud of that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. an important basis for good coexistence is that the state, the economy and society are in a balanced relationship with each other. if the social element is missing, then there is a risk that there will be no voluntary commitment from individuals. we saw this in the communist era. the party-dominated state stifled the commitment of free people until resistance was mounted. this was the background to a civil society movement that eventually turned to peaceful, velvet revolution in hungary, the czech republic, poland and many other countries. for a long time, this link was clear, ngos were seen as important pillars of the new order. tadeusz mazowiecki once put it this way: everything depends on the strength of society - on its spiritual values, on its wisdom in asserting the rights of man and the rights of the nation. it is worrying that in these countries in particular, the space for ngos is now being systematically and with great pressure restricted. this means a return to a past which we all do not want, and we must therefore resolutely oppose all relevant trends.
i have to say, madam president, this is not the first time we have had a debate on the human rights situation in our neighboring country egypt. we should not let this go unchecked until the situation has changed decisively. anything else would be negligent. it is a deceptive and dangerous illusion to believe that stability can be achieved through systematic repression. we are bound to egypt by fate; everything that happens in this country has a direct impact on us in europe. the rule of law, democracy and human rights are the best guarantee of stability. we are therefore deeply concerned about the almost obsessive use of the death penalty and the systematic restriction of freedom of expression and assembly. we call on president sisi to suspend the executions and to use the forthcoming presidential elections as an opportunity to finally allow for democratic alternatives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the starting point of the debate was the decision of the british people to leave the european union. so far so good. the decision has been made. but what is the european union doing? not simply to remove the 73 seats that the british had here, to signal to the european taxpayer public that you are prepared to save accordingly. no, we are going to take 27 of the 73 seats that are still to be saved and blow up this parliament again. a wrong decision, because this parliament, while it should be able to work and effective and accepted, is to be resized accordingly. the same applies to the commission, where there are also corresponding provisions in the area of the lisbon treaty, to reduce this commission by at least a third. what do you do? a unanimous decision by the council to keep this commission in its original size of 27 members. it's a wrong signal. if this european union and this project are to find unity and acceptance, then we must reshape ourselves.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are debating the council meeting today as we do on a regular basis. once again, we criticise the fact that the expectations were not met or were only partially met. at home, we are then faced with disappointed expectations. people will then flatly claim that the eu is not working. things have become too confusing for people to grasp, and the lack of responsibility often results in skepticism and rejection. this time the heads of state or government had the power to take an important step. whatever one's view of the top candidate principle, it is certainly a major contribution to establishing accountability. the representatives of the member states have preferred to put everything on the back burner rather than make concrete proposals. but what is particularly disappointing is that some of them are heads of state - like the one in france - who normally can't do anything too fast.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner, more than two years ago our house started to debate the situation of the rule of law in poland, seen as difficult and serious but still solvable. in the meantime, we have observed a dramatic deterioration. whereas the position of the european institutions did not alter and our concerns remained, the polish government continued its activities. dialogue did not happen for months, whilst vice-president timmermans was constantly urging cooperation. there is now a new situation. the language has softened, but the substance remains. as we all know, the triggering of the article 7 procedure by the commission was not something done lightly. the activation of article 7 is a last resort. we know this and we know that action has been taken only because the situation is serious. the polish people deserve a free and fair judicial system. no citizen should ever feel that their judges could be under political influence. no polish person must ever doubt that they can receive a fair and free trial. there are also other issues we have to address. three months ago we passed a resolution criticising attacks on civil society organisations and the threat to the sexual and reproductive rights of women, and we are also concerned at the repression of some groups as retired public servants. but today we are focusing on the matter of the judiciary to make it clear that triggering article 7 in the case of poland is not directed against the people of poland. it is a last signal and it is against the government which systematically neglects european concerns, concerns which are not developed by so-called brussels bureaucrats. there is a clear foundation in the treaties and an obligation. a government that does not accept this is telling lies to its people. you may win elections but you put the future at risk. we stand fully behind the commission in its triggering of article 7.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in europe is an important cornerstone of our work. this year we have a particularly balanced and forward-looking report. the rapporteur, mr frank engel, and his shadow rapporteurs deserve our warmest congratulations on this. the report's emphasis on the rule of law is particularly noteworthy, given that we are faced with a number of worrying developments in some member states. in the case of poland, the commission has already initiated an article 7 procedure and in the case of hungary, the libe committee is currently examining this connection. the aim here is not to put individual countries on the spot, but to monitor developments closely and to correct them at an early stage. we need a low-threshold instrument. i therefore welcome the recommendation to establish a permanent mechanism for democracy and the rule of law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as one of the few representatives of a country neighbouring the former yugoslavia, i would like to begin with a quote: 'the tribunal has given a voice to the victims.' i can only agree with the words of un secretary-general antónio guterres, who has called for the end of the work of the icty. the abominable acts committed by the convicted during the yugoslav war had to be elaborated and then duly punished. it was the only way to bring some kind of justice to the victims. the international criminal tribunal for yugoslavia has now completed its work. this work has given victims the opportunity to publicly name the atrocities committed during the war. the contribution of the court to stability in the region remains to be assessed. it is undeniable that the judgments of the court have also led to polarization in the region. nevertheless, the hague tribunal has made legal history, clearly identified the most heinous crimes, and served as a model for subsequent institutions. it is clear to me that this work must be seen as an added value for the law and the international community.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it runs through all the verbs: we have two main criticisms: the lack of transparency and the lack of credibility. neither the european parliament as a chamber of citizens nor the european commission as the guardian of the treaties has been given access to the political commitments of the eight countries under discussion today. how are we to judge whether the council's decision is justified or not? and how are we supposed to exercise our control function if we don't have access to this information? the second point is the question of credibility. if we demand improvements from other countries without giving a comprehensible justification for our decisions, we lose our credibility. we must not be fooled by letters, and we must not be fooled by promises which are only to be implemented later. we must continue the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion, for transparency and credibility. it is therefore good, right and important that we should vote on the special committee on taxation tomorrow, because we must continue our work consistently and we should carry out our control tasks. we are therefore very sceptical and call on the member states to be transparent, to be credible and to disclose their documents.
in writing. the eu list of non-cooperative countries and territories was adopted by the member states on 5 december 2017. as early as 23 january 2018, eight territories were removed from that list again, following commitments by them to address eu concerns. barbados, grenada, the republic of korea, macao, mongolia, panama, tunisia and the united arab emirates are now in a separate category of territories subject to close surveillance. the council agreed that delisting was justified in the light of an expert assessment of the commitments made by these countries to address the deficiencies identified by the eu. the eu list aims to promote fair tax competition worldwide and to maximise efforts to combat tax avoidance, tax fraud and tax evasion. however, the decision to halve the list 49 days after its publication raises concerns about the transparency of the group code of conduct. i therefore welcome the council's publications on the commitment letters of the countries concerned which led to delisting, but i ask for further action to improve accountability and transparency.
i have to say, madam president, the european food safety authority is not necessarily known for distributing green content. in this particular case, however, efsa itself recommended that the use of neonicotinoids in the open air be banned. if we also recognize that diversifying our agriculture and working with nature is the way forward, then we can learn from the bees. i can ask you all, as an active farmer and as an active beekeeper, on behalf of my colleagues in the profession, to support this report, for healthy food, for healthy agriculture and for saving bees.
i have to say, madam president, this report also addresses an important area, namely the market distortions affecting european beekeeping. at the moment, we are allowing - and quite rightly - honey importers to mix their products with small amounts of european honey and then simply declare it as a mixture of honey from eu and non-eu countries. i therefore ask very clearly: 'eu' can only be written on it if at least 50% of eu honey is inside. and i also demand that the percentage of honey from non-eu countries be declared. this is fair to the interests of european beekeepers and it is fair to the consumers. we do not need misleading designations of origin, but clear ones: wherever the eu is inside, it may be marked 'eu'.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! supervision and resolution are now the two pillars of the banking union. the rapporteur has put this very well in his report. the third pillar - deposit insurance - is a controversial subject, as we have seen in this debate today. but there are large member states who are quite clear that a systemic reduction of high risks in the bank balance sheets of eu institutions must be carried out before there is a common deposit guarantee i.e. risk reduction before risk sharing. i would like to join in that call. while an agreement on deposit insurance is still a long way off, banking supervision should work. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union are respected. the fact that this case was not uncovered by the ecb's banking supervision but by the american financial authorities does not strengthen confidence either. the banking union has undoubtedly made the financial sector safer. this is also reflected in the commission's latest progress report on the reduction of npls. the commissioner was in charge. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is able to compete with the rest of the world.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question is in the direction of risk reduction. we know that in the case of major failures, it is still common for the state to intervene. in fact, small businesses are executed relatively quickly and immediately. do you think that risk reduction should also support smes in particular so that they have better opportunities in terms of liquidity to implement their business models accordingly?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you very much for this report, which shows us that we have made a lot of progress in the banking union, but at the same time we are not finished. we have created the first pillar of common supervision, but we must take account of the size and complexity of institutions in a more appropriate way in the future. we have reduced the stock of bad loans by one third since mid-2014, but we need to take further action as the stock is still above pre-crisis levels at eur 950 billion. we have created the second pillar of joint resolution, but we need to remove existing inconsistencies between state aid rules and eu law. we have applied the resolution rules for the first time, but we need to improve the decision-making process about whether a bank is failing or likely to fail. and we have strengthened deposit protection in europe. but we have not yet completed the third pillar, which is the common security. i expect the council to put edis in place now, to set out clearly the timetable for risk reduction and risk sharing. it's not about the if anymore, it's just about the how. let's finish the banking union building this term.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question is this: we have heard from the banks and from consumers that a lot of new bureaucracy has moved in. there are massive complaints that the bureaucracy in this area has increased extremely, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises that do business across borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
i have to say, madam president, we are constantly concerned about the istanbul convention, although it was drawn up in 2011. in fact, all this should have been taken for granted long ago, and we should be proud of it - proud of the fact that the members of the council of europe at that time agreed to condemn all forms of violence against women and to take concrete measures to combat it. but it is obvious that we cannot conclude the whole thing accordingly. this cannot be explained by a misunderstanding, nor by the slowness of the decision-making structures. there is a suspicion that some simply do not want women to be equal to men in every respect. the arguments that the convention would contribute to the division of society are especially absurd. the opposite is true: a society that tolerates violence against women is a society that splits. and it is particularly strange that a member state which currently holds the presidency of the council and is not present today refuses to ratify the convention.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. package delivery, that's something that we're much more involved with in our daily lives today than we were even 15 or 20 years ago. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in europe alone, four billion parcels are sent each year. that means someone orders them and someone delivers them to someone. how this process takes place and, above all, how prices are formed, is very often kept in the dark and is very difficult for the european consumer to understand. i am therefore also in favour of this initiative to create transparency for consumers. on the other hand, there is of course a good debate about the extent to which we should intervene in this market, because market regulation always means that i, of course, move the market in a certain way in a certain direction. it is therefore a massive interference with the freedom to conduct business and a considerable amount of bureaucracy, in relation to which it remains to be assessed whether it is really worthwhile.
in writing. existing rules on the training of professional drivers are regulated in directive 2003/59/ec. following the publication of an evaluation report in 2012 which identified some shortcomings, the commission proposed a legislative proposal to amend the directive. the report recommends that the commission proposal be amended in several respects. for example, the focus is on efficient driving to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector (target 20% fewer emissions by 2030 compared to 2008). the opportunities offered by intelligent transport systems to reduce emissions, reduce the accident rate and develop a competitive european transport sector are also recognised. member states should be given the opportunity to harmonise their training practices. however, such harmonisation should exclude sensitive areas such as the driving of vehicles for the transport of dangerous goods, heavy goods, animals, etc. driving licences should be issued in the prescribed form to ensure mutual recognition. the rapporteur believes that transport operators should be aware of the sources from which they can obtain information on the prescribed laws of the various member states which affect them. periodic training with a focus on road safety is required. the importance of a network of national cooperation databases for verifying the validity of 'certificates of professional competence' (cpc) is also emphasised.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not in a position to do so. we have rightly recognised that a hard brexit will cause even more problems in ireland. can you imagine that we will also make provision in the financial framework of the european union so that if the conflicts in ireland lead to even greater losses than they are at present, we can give ireland the support it needs to avoid the disaster we fear today?
i have to say, madam president, it's not easy to predict how this sad brexit theater will end. not even for those of us who deal with it regularly, and certainly not for the millions of people directly affected, over three million eu citizens in the uk and over a million britons outside the uk. she's haunted by this question to the point of sleep, her future uncertain. they feel that they are bargaining chips, and they fear that they may become waste at the end of the process. almost 4.5 million people many member states have fewer inhabitants are affected. they have made their decisions in the confidence that legal norms will continue to exist. they need clear decisions, not uncertainties. as european parliamentarians, we will do everything we can to ensure that justice is done. the rights of citizenship of the union deserve our special attention. i cannot imagine voting for a brexit deal at the expense of civil rights, and i agree with many of my colleagues on this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking mr juncker and mr barnier, and in particular mr barnier, for the calmness, consistency, competence, objectivity and seriousness with which he has led and is leading these negotiations. (applause from the centre) i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. she still thinks she has to negotiate something like a warm ice-cream pop. the uk should leave the single market and the customs union, but retain all the benefits. that's not possible! it's not possible! i would like to make a second point: we must also use the experience of brexit to develop european democracy. brexit is showing us again how the constitutional treaty referendums show us that national populism, party tactics, personal vanity and voting democracy can harm people in their own country, but can also harm all people in the european union. 4.6% of all eu citizens have directly or indirectly decided on all 508 million eu citizens. i do not think that is democratic. that is not appropriate for european democracy. it is also necessary to discuss this at eu level and to develop european democracy further.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. once again the council is debating the issues of migration and asylum, and once again nothing but hot air is being produced. since 2014/2015, this discussion has been going on and on, and since 2014/2015, it's been like this, that millions of people are pouring into our continent. yes, there are people in need of protection, and i think it would be better to provide protection in the region. but there are criminals and there are terrorists. and we have the situation -- whether it was in brussels, whether it was in paris, whether it was in munich -- that now austria has also become a victim of a terrorist action, where a person originally from egypt attacked a security guard, tried to stab him with a knife, just because there is an involvement of iran in syria -- and all of this on austrian soil. i say it is high time to protect the external borders. we've been discussing it for a long time, it's not going to happen. and as long as the external borders are not effectively protected, i call for the right to protect the borders to be left to the member states. austria is now negotiating at european level and i would ask you to give your consent to this solution.
i have to say, madam president, the next council meeting promises to have an agenda that is not just about reacting. it addresses questions that citizens have long been waiting to hear: jobs, growth and the competitiveness of the european economy. there's a lot to show for it. the single market is the heart of our union. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital revolution. we've come a long way in this area. we should not allow that to be jeopardised by national unilateralism at this time. unfortunately, such tendencies are also evident in economic policy. the eurozone in particular needs more european impetus, especially at a time when it is clear that the crisis interventions have been successful against all odds. some things could have been more successful if we had not been constrained by the dogma of austerity. we shall hear from the portuguese prime minister, in particular, how things could have gone. for us social democrats, the black zero is not a dogma, we are concerned with the responsible use of budgetary funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore welcome the fact that the council has been dealing with social rights for a long time. only by strengthening the social pillar can we also strengthen our future. let me say this: i believe it would be important for the council to take a position on the terrible developments in afrin.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the commission has already made a number of proposals. for us in development policy, it's really crucial that these sustainable development goals are implemented: goal 2 agriculture, goal 6 water, sanitation and goal 7 renewable energy. we want to see public tenders so that consumers can clearly see where their money is going. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. we also want to promote blending and ppp models in the future and also integrate the edf european development fund into the eu budget. it is important for us to adopt the more-for-more approach, whereby those who cooperate well with us in development policy get more, and that we encourage, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises on both sides to cooperate with each other. the only way to do that is through open bidding, transparency, and the best bidder should win.
i have to say, madam president, we welcome the retention of funds for agriculture and rural development, provided that they are able to meet the central challenges of our time. we will not be able to meet the paris climate targets if we do not make european agriculture greener. we cannot preserve rural jobs if we cut all the money for rural development and agriculture. we will not be able to save europe's biodiversity if we do not make european agriculture more ecological. i therefore call on you to maintain the agricultural budgets only if we have a proper greening of agriculture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i do not see why a train ticket here to strasbourg or brussels should cost significantly more than an air ticket. such a tax can only be levied transnationally. the same applies to a financial transaction tax. or do we want to wait for the next financial crisis when we should already know better?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the uk's withdrawal from the eu will leave a huge hole of 14 billion euros, which will not be easy to fill. after all, we are talking about 10% of own resources with a budget of some eur 1 000 billion. in addition, new policy priorities in the areas of security policy, the fight against terrorism and migration are costing the budget. the mff 2027 therefore presents a major challenge on both the revenue and expenditure sides. in the last financial framework, some 72% of the budget went to the common agricultural policy and the structural funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in addition, there are two programmes which it would be sensible not to cut, namely horizon 2020 and erasmus+. programme lines such as cosme or the connecting europe facility are also important drivers of growth and employment. there is, of course, resistance on the revenue side from the net contributors. parliament has set a contribution of 1.3% for this. a group of five european net contributors, including austria, have already spoken out against an increase in net contributions and against a linear progression of the budget. they therefore face a difficult task, because without massive savings and a reform of own resources it will not be possible to ensure sustainable financing of the eu budget and at the same time to launch all those projects and programme lines which are politically desirable and which actually bring european added value.
in writing. when we debate the new eu budget, it is also said that the bargaining for power and money is about to begin. i would urge that we have an honest discussion about the eu budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if minister köstinger says there must be no loss of income for farmers, i expect the same for the employment initiative. agriculture must not automatically take precedence over unemployed young people. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of youth workers, to provide training and to provide training for young people. long-term unemployment is one of the greatest social problems of our time. the fight against youth unemployment must also be reflected in the eu budget. we have already made our position clear in the european parliament in favour of additional financial instruments. now, finally, the member states must also have a serious debate on these instruments for the eu budget. european coordinated taxes such as the financial transaction tax, the digital tax or the ccctb could support the eu budget without imposing additional burdens on national budgets.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not syria is a prime example of the double-talk of international political actors. on the one hand, the white house is criticizing the casualties of syrian civilians in the eastern ghouta region, european politicians are pushing for a ceasefire, and on the other hand, the same protagonists are silent and watch in silence as nato partner turkey, with the support of fundamentalist islamic militants, invades syria in clear violation of international law. in the meantime, the kurds, who also defended the christian minorities against the islamic state, are being abandoned again, the afrin region and its civilian population are being left to their fate, and the deaths of children and women, which may well happen in the future, are being tacitly acknowledged. when mrs mogherini recently, on 6 march, emphasized the good cooperation between nato and the eu, i think it was a mockery of the men and women of afrin who are trying to defend themselves against the turkish army. what cynicism . these men and women in afrin are defending themselves with nato weapons against a nato aggressor.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the messages of the women's committee are simple and clear. unemployment, cuts in public spending, poverty and social exclusion are all too often and predominantly affecting women. it is sad that in 2018 we still have to ask for one thing above all. but don't worry, we won't get tired of doing it: equal pay for equal work. the european semester must be an instrument for this. the european semester, however, lacks a gender-sensitive perspective, which is not reflected in the report. equal treatment and equal opportunities for women and men must be guaranteed and promoted in all areas. this is the second principle of the social pillar and it must be fully integrated into the european semester.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the current analysis of the european semester is positive from the point of view of short-term economic policy. the economy has been growing steadily for the last 18 quarters. the recovery is being felt in all member states. unemployment is at its lowest level in ten years, almost at pre-crisis levels. this applies to both longterm and youth unemployment. the good economic situation is favourable to public finances and investment activity. in the 2018 european semester country reports, three member states report excessive and only eight member states report economic imbalances. progress is being made in key areas such as budgetary policy, fiscal governance, financial services and improved access to finance, which has led to a higher rate of implementation of the country-specific recommendations. however, there are also weaknesses, namely the persistently high public and private debt and the slow implementation of structural reforms, as well as a lack of productivity and competitiveness. further reforms are therefore necessary, especially in times of good economic conditions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to make three points. firstly, the reports show very clearly that only two thirds of the country-specific recommendations have been largely implemented by the member states. this is at a time when the european economy is growing faster than in the last decade. this is at a time when unemployment is at 10.5% the lowest since 2009 and we had the lowest interest rates. it is time to fully implement the structural reforms and to implement the country-specific measures. secondly, the european semester is a process, and i therefore welcome the fact that the priorities of the social rights pillar are being taken into account for the first time and that - it has already been addressed - many member states are being monitored for aggressive taxation. yes, we are improving the european semester. the third point i would like to make is that the european semester is essential for economic policy coordination in the member states and for addressing the challenges and the need for action. it is not, however, a substitute for the development of monetary union towards a full-fledged economic and social union. i therefore ask that we complete the building of the banking union, that we adopt the new measures for the capital markets union that are still lacking, and that we deepen economic, social and monetary union. strong economies, even in good times, and especially in good times, are concerned with overcoming their weaknesses. we have a lot of work to do and we also need an efficient sanction mechanism.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first aluminum and steel, then german cars and now industrial and agricultural products. trump's plans to impose punitive tariffs on european products are hard to fathom, but they follow a treacherous strategy. while all industries are trembling over us sales markets, all trading partners should be bidding for bilateral exemptions. this is in stark contrast to our vision of a multilateral trade policy based on values and the rule of law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine. but a negotiated solution can only succeed if we do not just selfishly push for exceptions for europe, but together with our allies, advocate fair and rules-based trade. it's like the schoolyard, where bullying stops when no one else is around.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have listened very carefully to what you have said and have been very impressed by your remarks. i have been taking two pages of notes on the question of the future eu budget. on the question of the multiannual financial framework, some net contributors have a different opinion. we don't believe that a focus on more security or on high-quality agriculture that's small-scale has to mean more money. i would like to focus my question on something you said about european values, that the values of peace and democracy - europe as a community of values - led portugal into the european union. i would like to ask you what portugal's attitude is towards south-west europe and south-east europe, where the european commission has presented a commission strategy for the western balkans, what the future scenarios for albania, bosnia, kosovo, macedonia, montenegro and serbia - the six western balkan states - can be, and how we can ensure that the european values you mentioned can also pave the way for south-east europe to join the european union, so that both sides do their homework. the member states have a decisive say in the council, so this is my question to you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we know that. fortunately, moving more of our lives into the digital world makes our lives easier, but it also makes us more vulnerable to terrorists and cybercriminals. the internet does not stop at national borders, so the top priority is europe-wide cooperation between the european commission, the eu member states and us here in parliament. we're showing resolve here. maximum protection of critical infrastructure must prevent what happened a few weeks ago in latvia, where the online health system was shut down by hackers. this maximum protection must be extended to businesses, authorities and citizens, and we must all ensure that targeted awareness is created on this issue. it starts with the manufacturers, as well as the citizens who don't have antivirus protection or don't even update. the motto is to protect not only the data world of transport systems, which includes rail, air and road transport, but also power stations, dams, industrial plants, hospitals, all public authorities and so on. i think we are well aware that the european elections and all elections are affected by this. europe must act now!
i have to say, madam president, the news of the violent deaths of journalist ján kuciak and his fiancée martina kušnírová has caused great consternation everywhere, as has the murder of daphne galizia. we must do everything we can to find those responsible and bring them to justice. first of all, the background must be clarified and it must be ascertained why the authorities failed or why individual officials may even have been involved in the incidents. this must be done ruthlessly and without consideration, immediately. but we also have to ask ourselves what impact such crimes have on the professional practice of journalists. we owe it to the victims. a living democracy needs independent journalism; it's like the air we breathe. journalists must be able to do their work without fear of repression, persecution or even death. we must therefore oppose with all our might any attempt to curtail the independence of the media and restrict the freedom of the profession. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we can't undo what's happened, but we may be able to prevent it from happening in the future.
i have to say, madam president, nothing is clearer in this parliament than the fact that there must be independent european investigations together with the authorities in slovakia. the issues that journalist kuciak has researched must be followed up consistently until the trial. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. the european parliament must of course be fully involved in this. that is why i respect manfred weber for asking me to do this. not only the demonstrations of the last few days, but also the eurobarometer survey shows that the slovak people have more confidence in the eu than in their own authorities. no more games in europe! europol is well placed to do the job here. we all in europe have a responsibility to protect journalists as the watchdog of democracy.
the media and freedom of the press are the cornerstones of democracy. as a former journalist, i am particularly struck by the murder of ján kuciak and his partner martina kušnírová. kuciak had information about a network of the calabrian 'ndrangheta that is believed to reach the highest levels of the slovak government. the murder is most likely the result of his research. unfortunately, this is not an isolated case, as there have been several such cases in the recent past. this fact once again reflects the importance of protecting journalists. until the double murder, slovakia was considered a model country from a political point of view, also with regard to the neighbouring countries poland and hungary. the fact that the slovak minister of the interior, mr kaliňák, resigned a few days ago raises some questions which need to be answered, precisely because kuciak is also alleged to have investigated mr kaliňák. slovakia is now in a deep governmental crisis; it must return to stability. this can only be achieved if the murder of ján kuciak and his partner is fully investigated.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we have enough mice. a couple of big, beautiful, successful animals, that's all it would be. as cumbersome as it sounds, the common consolidated corporate tax base is at the heart of tax justice in europe. this is the only way to ensure that taxes are actually paid where profits are made. but as the european parliament we go one step further. with the digital office, we want to make internet companies pay their taxes in the future. i would also like to hold the austrian government responsible for this. i expect that in the forthcoming council presidency the consolidated corporation tax will be a top priority, because if you say yes to google tax, you must also say yes to the common corporation tax base, the basis for tax justice. congratulations to paul tang and alain lamassoure, you have done a great job!
the commission has already done so. the european union's public budgets lose around €70 billion in tax revenues each year due to aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance. this is mainly a minor revenue from corporation tax. the two reports under discussion today, which seek to harmonize the corporation tax base, are intended to close this gap in revenue terms. corporate tax is one of the most important tax areas, alongside vat and income tax. the cctb and ccttb are intended to simplify the tax rules for the calculation of cross-border taxable profits and to improve comparability, to eliminate differences and discrepancies in the tax base and to create a level playing field, in particular between multinationals and smes, without undermining the tax sovereignty of the member states. in order to achieve the greatest possible multinational effectiveness, these two reports, these two areas, should be in line with the requirements of the oecd peps and the international accounting standards under ifrs at least that is what the commission proposal envisaged. the european parliament has made some changes here, namely, it has reduced the threshold for the mandatory application of the directive from eur 750 million to zero over a period of seven years, it has eliminated the possibility of an unlimited loss carry-forward, it has massively reduced the credit for r & d expenditure and it has created new criteria, for example, for the qualification of a parent company, which differ from ifrs. this is not helpful to a multinational approach to tackling tax avoidance and is also detrimental to competition in the european economic area.
in writing. the work of the luxleaks and panama papers committees has shown: aggressive tax avoidance is not a problem of any one country or company, but a structural problem of tax policy in europe and worldwide. €60 billion in potential tax revenue is lost every year in the eu as a result, gaps between national systems, double taxation and high administrative burdens hamper growth and investment, and large companies can often choose the 'most tax-friendly' country for every part of their business. the common consolidated corporate tax base is the most effective medicine. we want companies to pay their taxes where the value is created. we want to harmonize what is taxed and where. we want to establish common rules for the calculation of taxable profits and their consolidation. we want to reduce red tape and thereby generate 3.4% more investment and 1.2% more growth in the eu. and we want to include digital activities of online corporations and define a 'digital workplace' for internet-based businesses. the idea is not new, but was born in 2011. the european parliament has delivered today as it did then. the member states must finally stop stopping each other and decide on this important initiative during this parliamentary term.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must take a firm stand against this, or else we shall soon have the same problems in other areas. i would also like to suggest that in future we link the first pillar of the cap much more closely to public services, such as climate protection, clean water, biodiversity, healthy food, animal welfare or landscape protection, in order to dispel any suspicion that these are market support measures and to make it clear that these are public services that are legal under the green box.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is important that we also provide incentives to counter these tariffs. it is important that we look at the whole value chain and see where in the value chain we can support our exporters, for example in food exports, so that they can also become stronger in exports. we have just been discussing the corporation tax base. mr moscovici could have prepared a nice activity here, namely a 50% reduction, so that we become more competitive on the international markets. we will only be able to win if we become more competitive. the additional penalties are only imposed on consumers. the european union is setting an example. i'd like to thank you personally.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs malmström for her report. corporate social responsibility must not stop at transparency and voluntary codes of conduct. what happened in italy once again shows clearly that we need a pan-european framework for the involvement of the workforce in company decisions. the existence of almost 500 workers and their families was destroyed in one blow. how can the commission justify the fact that there is still no directive on information and consultation for the whole of europe? the commission must also consider how we can improve the european legal framework for multinational companies in the debate on the future of the european union. the decades in which the european union alone has strengthened shareholder access must be over! the social responsibility of large corporations, as it has been practiced up to the present day, is based on the ideas of milton friedman in the 1970s. he said that csr was all about providing jobs and taxes. as we see, it's not even lived in today. so we need this europe-wide framework. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. sudan is an important country for europe. the country is in the midst of a transformation and faces great challenges. it hosts millions of refugees and displaced people, and it is relatively stable compared to its neighbors. but that is a false stability. it can only exist if the arbitrariness that is so prevalent in this country is replaced by structures based on the rule of law and if human rights are respected. it's a long, long way to go. i was in sudan with a delegation from the subcommittee on human rights in december and i was convinced that many people are aware of this problem. we also met with various human rights activists who shared their concerns but also their hopes. they place all their hopes in europe, and in particular in the european parliament. that is why our resolution today, calling for the immediate release of salih mahmoud osman, is so important and central.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i understand the concern of the honourable member and i can also support it in the sense that a debate on the budget is of course very important. we shall have a full debate on the budget this week, namely in the discharge procedure, where parliament's budget will be discussed explicitly and exclusively. we know that the preliminary draft is currently an internal procedure and that the official budget debate will of course take place in the autumn as it does every year and then it will also be voted on in the plenary, so there is every possibility of that here. i therefore reject this motion because otherwise it would be a duplication of the debate, and we have very little time to debate this week anyway.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we should always keep this in mind: good coexistence and long-term stability are only guaranteed if the state, the economy and society are in a balanced relationship with each other. in the communist era, we could see what it meant when the social element was missing. the party-dominated state stifled the commitment of free people. the strengthening of civil society eventually led to the peaceful revolution. tadeusz mazowiecki once put it this way: 'everything depends on the strength of society, on its spiritual values, on its wisdom in asserting the rights of man and the rights of the nation.' but what was unchallenged for a quarter of a century and became a cornerstone of the new european identity seems to be falling into oblivion today. it is necessary to see this connection from a european perspective. we cannot accept that the civil society sector is threatened again. and it is not an excuse to say that this is becoming a global trend. many developments in europe are also worrying. administrative measures and political campaigns are reducing the space for civil society, as our fundamental rights agency has recently noted in a worrying report. if we do not take these well-founded concerns seriously, we will endanger the european project in the long term. we should be firm in opposing these tendencies. civil society is not opposed to politics, as is often feared and claimed. we need civil society as a critical and sometimes unpleasant partner. it's the only way to ensure that we as politicians don't take off. this is why it is necessary to promote civil society at european level. and, ladies and gentlemen, what is possible for political parties must also apply in this context and above all to those organisations which are committed to the values of the european union.
madam president, there can be no functioning democracy without a functioning civil society. it promotes the rule of law and accountability. there can be no fully functioning human rights catalogue without an active society, as it helps to implement international human rights standards. but the shrinking space for these organisations is in fact a reality. on my latest mission to hungary, i met with civil society organisations promoting human rights and women’s rights. i witnessed their struggles, which are much related to a lack of adequate funding, a tactic by the hungarian government to prevent these organisations from functioning. civil society organisations need our help to carry out their work. therefore, i call on us all, the european union, to set up the european values instrument to ensure funding and support for these organisations. together we can defend our common european values.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. let 's face it . i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in poland, but that we should be concerned about the situation in hungary. and what is being promoted here in election results, in hungary for example: two-thirds of the people are in favour of orbán continuing here. two thirds of the seats in parliament will be won, and this should be treated with respect. orbán was the only one who, at the beginning of the refugee crisis, respected the european rulebook and tried to protect the borders. and what did he get for it? nothing but a name. this is the wrong way. ladies and gentlemen, please note that pluralism, diversity and the way to give our own state a sovereign structure must be possible on this continent, and let us meet each other with friendship and not with reproaches as you do. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not sure i understood your question. but the only principle that can be stated about the funding of ngos is that ngos must of course be free to act within their framework and also be able to act independently of political influence. i see no problem with that at all. what i don't like is that you're here, a thousand miles away, telling other countries how to act, how to think. we are a european family of nations, and you must also allow for the fact that different accents may be used in different countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. for seven years assad has been massacring his people, for seven years he has been protected and supported by putin in the united nations. it is not possible to act against it in accordance with international law. this is not a recent development, and it will remain so. there will be no military solution in accordance with international law, and we should not seek that. we are the european parliament and not nato, we must strive for a political solution. if putin has his hand on assad, then we must increase and strengthen the political and economic pressure on him. that is the solution we should be striving for. we as the european parliament, we as the european union have failed for seven years to put enough pressure on putin, we have failed to put pressure on assad, and we have failed in other wars in this region. yemen has exactly the same problem as syria. it is the western ally saudi arabia that is committing the war crimes. we must stand with the democrats in this region and do so with really massive political pressure. that is the solution to this question.
mr. chairman, please. "mission accomplished" was tweeted by donald trump, full of himself and naïve after the missile attacks. but fulfilled or achieved, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing. the war, with its 4 000 deplorable victims, continues. assad is staying in power. russia remains the driving force in the region, not the united states. france is playing the role of pseudo-world power again and is participating in the bombing, which is against international law. the economic giant germany, with its materially and ideally united bundeswehr, gives its well-meaning commentary on this as if it were a muppet show. the union of god, unfortunately, and you have to admit, has no script. she has no discernible strategy. that has to change, and it has to change fast. i am optimistic that under the next austrian presidency we may be able to make a diplomatic leap forward. ladies and gentlemen, vienna has always been a good neutral ground for bringing the parties to the negotiating table.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the war in syria is a tragedy of incredible proportions for the people of the country, for the displaced and refugees, for the neighbouring regions and for europe. but above all it is a poor testimony to the absence of a european foreign policy. many things would not have happened and many things would have been different if there had been a common approach. we must learn from this, but it does not help the people affected. the only thing that will help them is an immediate end to the hostilities, which must be accompanied by a stable post-war order based on democracy and the rule of law. and that can only be done diplomatically. it is all the more paradoxical that we have allowed turkey to intervene in afrin a few weeks ago in violation of international law, using weapons sold by individual member states to the aggressor. we 're all paying the bill now: tens of thousands of people who had sought refuge in afrin became refugees again. it is high time that this short-sighted policy, which is geared to the particular interests of individual member states, was brought to an end.
i have to say, madam president, how to deal with russia? if i were still a journalist, i would highly likely not be satisfied exactly the way the uk framed the kremlin as the perpetrator of the poisoning of the skripal father and daughter, even though there is still so much evidence pointing in a very specific direction. when it comes to the use of chemical weapons in syria, there is at least one repeat offender, and that is bashar al-assad. this is not a good way of approving russia's behaviour in syria. moscow is supporting a regime that has hundreds of thousands of victims on its conscience, if it has any at all. i am convinced that all this would not have happened if the european union had intervened at the beginning of this conflict with a robust common, strong foreign policy - at a time when there was no is and no islamist fighters, and russia was not yet involved in this war. you could have made peace back then. now is the time to talk to all parties, including russia.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all feel it, we're powerless, but also through our own fault. and others are fleeing to the old theory of an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, not only because they are two different systems, different political selves, different approaches to problems and strategies, but also because some people think that politics is a game, guns are a toy, poison gas is a miracle weapon and legal violations are a cavalry offense. i therefore appeal to everyone to finally leave the sandbox, to stop playing games and to return to the negotiating table. responsible behavior and action looks different from what's happening in our world right now from syria to russia to ukraine. but it's also about us, not letting ourselves be provoked. let's not split up and play games. let us speak and act together, united not only in words but also in deeds! there is no way around a common foreign, security and defence policy, an independent energy supply for the european union and diplomatic solutions. clearly in position and ready to talk...
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the council because it is important for us to have this debate here in the house. nirj deva, our chairman in the korean delegation, has already made it clear that we have to negotiate. our first contacts are, of course, the ambassadors, and i would like to specifically mention and commend the ambassador of south korea, who is really very supportive of us, who is informing us, who is giving us factual information, and i would also like to believe that the ambassador or ambassadors of north korea will be active here in the same way in the future. europe is a bridge here. i think we are quite capable of approaching each other and mediating here. we also suggested to the delegation that we should attend the olympic games. the two countries have now done so. we have proposed cultural exchanges, and i think it would also be useful to provide incentives in the future, once korea is a nuclear-weapon-free zone. i would mention the sustainable development goals here, with number two: safe food, sanitation, renewable energy, but first the negotiations must be a success, and then europe can deliver. i would also ask mrs mogherini to take initiatives in this area.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. the first is syria, where i already feel uneasy when large sections of this house applaud that it has taken place, and we all know that it has taken place in violation of international law and without even a un mandate. if this european union claims to be based on a common set of values, these important basic principles should be respected accordingly. the same is true of salisbury. it may be the russians are behind this, it may be the russians are not behind this. but here again, serious diplomatic action is justified only if it is really happening on the basis of indisputable evidence, and not if it is based on mere suspicions. we had french president emmanuel macron here yesterday. with all due respect to his vision of the european union, i would like to emphasize one thing as the austrian representative: this european union is based on 28 members, soon to be 27, and it cannot be that the dominance of france and germany here sets the tone and the direction in which this european project of unification must develop. i imagine that 28 or 27 equal partners are sitting at the table, from eastern europe to western europe, from southern europe to northern europe. this is the spirit which could make a european project of unification strong, namely having equal partners and not a domination of a few big ones and the small ones who only have to understand what the big ones are pretending.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. my patience is running out. we are constantly seeing a huge contradiction between macron's speech yesterday and the council's results today, between the commission's proposals and the council's objectives and decisions, between parliament's decisions and developments in the member states. we need a new dynamism in the council to reach decisions that make the european union more capable of action and more efficient. the contradiction between european objectives and european tasks and needs and results is blatantly apparent in the election results and the election campaign in hungary, in the election results and the election campaign in italy, in the events in poland, in the contradiction between our decisions on the migration package and the results, between the needs in the financial perspective and the declarations of the member states, in the need for a european monetary fund and your response to continue intergovernmentalism. i expect the council to come back as a european legislator and not as a nationalist organisation within europe. there's got to be an end to the navel-gazing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without these results, we will not get an increased turnout on may 26, 2019.
in writing. the conclusions of 22 march 2018 refer to social issues in point 5 and mention that it is a common political commitment and responsibility of the eu and its member states to deliver on the european pillar of social rights. it is good that social indicators should be more prominently anchored in the european semester in the future. but the lack of commitment to implementation remains! the european pillar of social rights aims to achieve comprehensive reforms in terms of equal opportunities, access to the labour market, fair working conditions and social inclusion. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i hope and i ask the commission to be more binding and not to continue to make non-binding recommendations to the member states! only binding minimum social standards with a high level of protection can strengthen social cohesion in europe!
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i too would like to thank you very much for the preparatory work carried out by the court of auditors, for the good cooperation with dg devco and for the very good cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs. i would also like to thank all the staff who have contributed to this report. the european development fund is, as you all know, the union's main financial instrument for development cooperation with the countries of africa, the caribbean and the pacific, as well as with the overseas territories. the basis for this cooperation is the cotonou agreement and the overseas association decision. the main objective of the cotonou agreement is to combat poverty, in accordance with the means of sustainable development and the gradual integration of these countries into the world economy. the agreement expires in february 2020. this means that negotiations on a new agreement must begin by august this year at the latest. the council is expected to adopt an authorisation decision in this respect in the first half of 2018. this is all in the context of new global challenges that will change the way development cooperation is allocated. all the relevant actors are already working on new aid concepts and a reorientation of the current external aid framework. this will also have an impact on the impact and operation of the european development fund. the report addresses these new challenges, both in the chapter 'responding to a new world, a world of development priorities' and in the chapter on the new acp partnership, which includes the inclusion of the edf in the general budget. the financial dimension of the european development fund is large. the 11th european development fund alone has a portfolio of eur 30,5 billion for the period 2017-2020. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the union's contribution to the financing of the union's external action is estimated at eur 10000000000. in the area of migration and development alone, 106 projects were approved in 2016 for a total value of eur 1,5 billion, eur 594 million were contracted and eur 175 million were paid. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united kingdom on the application of the union state aid rules to the compensation granted to the united kingdom for the costs of the provision of services of general economic interest. the target of 15,15% for the expired contracts, i.e. the reduction, was only slightly exceeded. similarly, the -25 target was achieved with only a slight surplus for all the old open prefinancing. old commitments to be settled were reduced by 36%. overall, the error rate was 3.3%, which is a slight decrease. the residual error rate was 1.7%, which is below the 2% materiality threshold. eur 14.16 million in unjustified payments were recovered. the cost of controls was 4.26% of the total cost. the court of auditors notes, however, that the monitoring and control systems are still ineffective in some respects, and the report is also, by its very nature, critical in its outline of the allocation and monitoring of funds. development assistance is delivered in a difficult and volatile geopolitical environment and is affected by problems such as weak governance, corruption, social and economic instability, armed conflicts or crises, which means that, in particular in budgetary assistance activities, the risk of diversion of resources remains high because of the risks of corruption and fraud, that more domestic revenues are to be mobilised in developing countries to reduce dependence on development assistance, and that increased cooperation with the european union is required, in particular in the fight against tax fraud and aggressive tax planning. the court of auditors nevertheless considered that the audit of the european development fund was reliable and that the operations were carried out in a lawful and regular manner. a discharge of the fund for the financial year 2016 is therefore foreseen and has already been approved by the cont committee.
the committee on agriculture adopted an opinion on the proposal. the commission has already done so. the error rate in agriculture has, fortunately, largely receded and in many areas has even fallen below the materiality threshold. traditionally, of course, the error rate in rural development, including the second pillar, is much higher than in direct payments. this is of course partly because direct payments are much easier to execute. here we have an error rate of 1.7%. but even in very complex rural development, error rates have been steadily decreasing in recent years, from 6% in 2014 to 5.3% in 2015 and finally 4.9% in 2016. in other words, the request also goes to the point of not only having the first pillar, direct payments, in the field of simplifications, but also to focus more on the second pillar, which is much more prone to error. we welcome the fact that the commission and council have similar error rates and hope that in the coming years we will be able to develop an area which is important for the development of the european union, especially the new common agricultural policy, but which, as we have heard, is still prone to error in some areas.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. with regard to the general reimbursement of costs, it is possible that you now voluntarily post this on the internet and publish the documents. i have actually looked at all the members' home pages, and none of the members in this house have presented all the documents in chronological order in a proper accounting system. i wonder why you don't do it voluntarily. why do you want to tell the others? i think a flat rate is a fair arrangement because with a flat rate, like a kilometre flat rate, you don't have to give everything in detail. i want these lump sums so that the member has the right to shape expenditure as he sees fit and not criticise officials in this house for doing one or the other in this area. i therefore ask you: do you personally have all your documents publicly available, and can any citizen check with you which documents you have enjoyed with taxpayers' money?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have been able to clarify a great many points, and we will certainly take up some others in the next discharge. for information: the european parliament costs each european three sixty euros a year, and this parliamentary budget is intended to support the work of members. we are making decisions affecting 510 million europeans and we must be extremely careful with taxpayers' money. i would like to take the debate on the single seat of the european parliament as an example. one of the biggest problems with the house is that we actually have two houses. a second seat may be a cherished tradition, but one we should no longer afford. i would like to say to my french colleagues in particular: if it is costing the taxpayer a three-digit million, we must be able to talk about this travelling circus. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the reason why i am speaking out for the second time, now as mrs karin kadenbach, is firstly to thank the court of auditors and all the members involved for this discharge and for the discussion. i would like to emphasize that we have talked today about how much money we are spending here at european level. what we have perhaps not emphasized enough is what we have achieved in the eyes of europeans and, above all, how much more it would have cost us in many areas if we had not spent money. i think the costs of not trading, of not investing, are always underestimated in the general discussions. i am a health and environmental policy-maker first and foremost, and it is in those areas that the money we invest helps not only to prevent human suffering, but also to make us competitive as a european market, to enable our children and grandchildren to experience a development that makes europe worth living in. that means that a lot of money has been spent here, well spent, and we would have needed more to achieve more.
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. i would like to thank you for your interesting speeches and also for the speeches of my colleagues. of course - and it has already been said - these contributions will continue to provide us with valuable inputs, especially for the next budget, and in my context, namely the discharge for the european development fund, i would like to thank mr frunzulică. it has drawn up the opinion of the development committee on the discharge report for the development fund. you have said it, madam minister: transparency and accountability are the basic prerequisites for democratic control, and in the area of the development fund in particular, they are the basic prerequisites for coherence between the union's development policy and the objectives of the other actors, namely the member states, international organisations and multilateral development banks, etc. the low error rate of the development fund shows that the trend is more positive. we had a 3.3% error rate and a residual error rate of 1.7%. this is below the materiality threshold and is going in the right direction. but the error rate alone is not enough, as we have learned today. we also need added value and good performance. this will require greater involvement of the private sector, particularly in the field of development policy, the introduction of blended finance in cooperation with international organisations, and a focus on additionality. yes development policy is not easy. you said it yourself, mr president, there are special conditions. these are often unstable environments and difficult political situations. we shall continue to work, and that is why i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept the discharge for the development fund tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when i opened the newspaper on monday, i was astonished to see a full-page ad from facebook: 'new eu legislation means more data protection for you', it said. i've had a few thoughts. wasn't mark zuckerberg's speech a few days earlier, and his answer to our colleagues in the us congress, not very convincing? he left a lot unanswered. this was probably due to the questioners' lack of understanding. in fact, many things are incomprehensible to those who are not familiar with the subject, since everything has become known in connection with facebook and cambridge analytica: voter manipulation, data theft, unfair competition, etc. you could have known all this if you had listened to the concerns of data protection and civil society who have long pointed out the shortcomings of this business model. some of us took these concerns seriously. the basic regulation on data protection, which we fought for in this house five years ago, has taken up this. we were met with rejection and ignorance. i remember the moment when a colleague objected to my claim that our law could set global standards, saying that i really believed that. meanwhile, observers of developments - such as the washington post recently - are coming to the realization that the future of facebook will be decided in europe. what does that mean? what does that mean? this means that europe is capable of action, but it only needs the will to do so. but above all, the nation states must not try to keep throwing sand into the gearbox. but it is not enough to rest on our laurels. the council therefore has to stop blocking the eprivacy regulation, which is necessary to complete the whole thing and which has already been adopted for us, and the member states must finally implement data protection in full.
the commission has already done so. from this seat in the european parliament, i turn to you, mr zuckerberg, who with your fundamentally very positive platform facebook, are again creating the most serious problems for the people of europe and the world. again, because you have not dealt responsibly with hate mail and terrorist mail in the past. the cambridge analytica case is a clear example of the negative consequences of this abuse. i think it's obvious, mr zuckerberg, that you have a duty, and we in politics have a duty, to protect the many millions of people who may be the victims of targeted actions, whose background they themselves do not even know, because you have the psychological profiles of people in a quality that people often do not know themselves. it carries enormous risks, including election manipulation. and i think the european elections next year are showing a danger: if facebook allows cambridge analytica, then it will also be possible for russian intelligence to commit these abusive crimes. so, please, introduce yourself to the european parliament. come and answer our questions now!
the commission has already done so. the fifth anti-money laundering directive is actually a fight against anonymity, as the rapporteur has pointed out, because it provides for a number of tightening measures. this concerns in particular the registers of economic operators, virtual currencies, prepaid credit cards and the exchange of information with high-risk third countries, as well as the establishment of a european central reporter (fiu) to support and coordinate national fius. the most controversial and hotly debated measure is probably the register of beneficial owners, namely the beneficial owners of legal persons and trusts. these registers are intended to be publicly accessible, although access may be restricted for reasons of data protection and security. at the same time, the threshold for declaring an economic interest is reduced from 25% to 10%. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be given a wide margin of discretion in the design of their own policies on cash controls and the surveillance of virtual currencies. the threshold for prepaid credit cards has been reduced from eur 250 to eur 150. there is also a duty of care in the high-risk area. the european parliament has already been consulted on this matter. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mrs kappel very warmly for raising a good problem, namely that when this regulation comes into force, the member states will probably be back to gold plating. it is to be expected that each member state will again make its own regulations, which will of course be very burdensome in terms of bureaucracy and very expensive. do you think it would make sense to have a central register for europe where this is done and then every member state can use this central register? the second thing, which would be very important, of course, is: don't you think that ngos should also be included in these arrangements?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. i really think that there should be a central reporting office so that we can have a uniform approach, and austria, which will be holding the presidency of the council for the next six months, will be taking steps here, namely to harmonize gold plating, not to implement it to that extent. secondly, i think that the approach you have taken is very, very important: in any case, this reporting agency should also include the data of ngos, and it should also apply to all financial expenditure by ngos. this too should be reported centrally and made publicly available.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it is very encouraging for me as an organic farmer to hear from the groups here that everyone supports organic farming, including the commissioner. i want to talk about one topic in particular, and that is seeds. for me, as an organic farmer, a central point of this regulation will be that in future we will be able to allow our own seeds, even if they are heterogeneous - that is, genetically diverse - to be sold, to be given to our colleagues, with a simple authorisation procedure. in organic farming, the diversity of the seed is an essential basis for coping with different climatic and regional conditions. we live off this diversity in organic farming every day. i would like to thank mr häusling and all the other shadow rapporteurs for their work and also express my thanks to the commissioner for his support.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, welcome to the european parliament. the annual report is for us to evaluate your work. this is done very quickly in most years, with consistent and fair judgments, where you can be congratulated on this implementation. this year, perhaps, we should talk about the role of parliament. there's one decision or one decision that you've made that, as a green, of course, bothers me: that's the monsanto merger. i've given the decision a lot of thought. you have made the right decision on the basis of the law, the competition law of the european union. but if ecological criteria are not a factor in preventing this merger, then the problem is the law and not the implementation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that brings me to the topic that's been talked about a lot here: digital platforms. it is true that we apply competition law to protect our consumers and our businesses, but it also has a democratic aspect. we will have to think about going further in legislation than just having a purely competition law regime for such large groups.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on 4 july 2017, so a long time ago, parliament adopted its decision on the proposal for a directive on public country-specific reporting. the aim is to increase transparency and public scrutiny of corporate taxation and to promote corporate responsibility by imposing disclosure obligations on certain companies. the content of the new directive is improved reporting requirements for companies. the initiative aims at new accounting standards for corporate groups, which is why the commission's proposal amends the accounting directive on the basis of article 50 and has chosen the legal basis accordingly. the european parliament confirms this choice on the basis of the opinion of the legal affairs committee of 12 january 2017. two institutions, the commission and parliament, are therefore in agreement that it is a question of transparency obligations, accounting, financial reporting - the balance sheet of companies - and not a new tax initiative. we have our mandate to negotiate with them. we have our mandate since last july to complete the public corporate tax return. they have still not put forward a plan or a concept for public country-specific reporting in the council. why would you do that? because some finance ministers are questioning the legal basis and claiming that this is a new tax initiative. the commission's proposal was to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the european parliament's position is clear: the proposal is not aimed at harmonising taxes or improving cooperation between tax authorities, nor at creating new tax obligations. it is only certain companies, the largest on the planet, that are required to report their income tax information. let's call it the public corporate tax return. so this report is the heart of good corporate governance for corporations in europe. and that is what it is about: accountability of multinational corporations to all taxpayers in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. how does the council justify the blockade now, in view of the union's international commitments? we, as the european union, are at the forefront of public country-by-country reporting. i refer to the report on the disclosure of non-financial information, the directive, which has already made some progress in this area. you want to follow a trump system? what is your explanation for the two-year delay? how do you justify the council's position on the legal basis? is it clear to the ministers that the proposal does not concern the amount of national taxes to be paid? does the corporate tax return have priority in the council? how does the council intend to make progress on this important proposal so that it can be taken further during this parliamentary term? clearly, only large corporations are obliged to be transparent. small and medium-sized enterprises are excluded. so only the very big ones, those with a turnover of over 750 million euros, are affected. the debate is thus a sham debate of some finance ministers and a tactic of individual ministers, to simply block eu laws which are unpleasant to them, to wait until the grass has grown over them and no one is talking about them anymore. i would ask the austrian colleague why he is blocking the law, mr minister. is it because the law is so much about big corporations, because the big corporations don't want it? you're not protecting startups, you're not protecting the coffee shop on the corner, you're not protecting the big companies themselves. they only protect the very large companies, the corporations, which currently pay little or no tax. it is therefore the right of every taxpayer, every taxpayer in europe, to know how much tax companies like google, facebook, starbucks and others pay in our countries, and that is why i am calling on you to take action in the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner oettinger very much. he did a good job. brexit will cost maybe 12 to 14 billion - that's 12 percent. and if i now see that in cohesion we are to cut by seven per cent and in agriculture by five per cent, that is a real step in the right direction, and we see that the commission's support for agriculture is there in any case. i am particularly interested in supporting small and mediumsized enterprises, which pay 80% of taxes and generate 50% of gdp. in this respect, i also see the cosme programme as one of the pillars of european policy, because it is only through tax revenue that we can push the other areas in the right direction. the integration of the european development fund into the european budget also gives us new opportunities, particularly in the area of sustainable development objectives 2, 6 and 7, in which we really want to invest because it is the future of europe to provide stable structures in these countries.
in writing. we greens are disappointed that the commission's proposal does not focus on social issues and only wants to commit 25% of spending to climate objectives. we greens have asked for 50%, the european parliament for at least 30%. at the same time, a massive expansion of the 'fortress europe' is planned, with frontex, for example, to be more than eightfold increased from the current 1 200 to 10 000 officials. i would like to see the same commitment in other areas, such as the fight against wage dumping or tax fraud. the positive aspect is that the commission's proposal is still more forward-looking than the ideas of the black-and-blue federal government in austria. we also support the introduction of an eu own resources system and more funds for erasmus+.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr valli, and the shadow rapporteurs. i am doing the annual report of the european investment bank for cont for the third time in a row, and i must say that it has been a great pleasure for me, because it gives you a better understanding of the bank, and it is one of the real success stories; the eib is the largest multilateral bank and the largest public lender in the world, the bank of the eu and its member states - a real success story, and that has been said and briefly mentioned today. the total amount of funding has already been discussed: eur 83.8 billion, and a total of eur 280 billion has been mobilised. what is important: a quarter of this was directly related to efsi funding, which in turn is essential for closing the investment gap at european level, 1.1 percent gdp growth and the creation of 1.4 million additional jobs. the eib has invested in four policy areas in 2016: innovation and knowledge, sme and midcap financing, infrastructure and environment and climate. almost a third of the financing, or eur 21.3 billion, went to small and medium-sized enterprises. in total, 385 000 smes have been financed by the eib. these are also given priority, as they play a crucial role and are the backbone of the european economy. it is important that access to finance is therefore made easier and more effective and that smes operating abroad also receive support from the trade finance facility.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we look with great concern to venezuela. the situation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law is deteriorating markedly. venezuela is experiencing a political, social, economic and humanitarian crisis, with tragic events and deaths. it cannot and must not continue like this. a solution must be found urgently. the solution cannot be found in the elections scheduled for 20 may, since fair and free elections require certain conditions, such as the participation of all political parties. i do not see these conditions being met. before elections can take place in venezuela, the government and the opposition must reach an agreement that defines the electoral process, in any case - as i have already said - with the participation of all political parties. the elections must be fair, free and transparent, and the worrying situation must be brought to an end as soon as possible. the people of venezuela should no longer suffer from this grave crisis.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, as the libe co-rapporteur for the victims rights directive, i would like to remind everyone that the istanbul convention to combat gender violence has been signed but not yet ratified by the eu and all member states. in fact, i'm very sorry to say so, but the bulgarian presidency which is present here tonight has not yet done so. i thank the presidency for being present here and i would like to call upon it to do this as soon as possible. the convention stipulates that all of its provisions, in particular, measures to protect the rights of victims, shall be secured without discrimination on any ground and it explicitly ensures that its signatories to recognise stalking as a criminal offense. stalking is a serious crime that deserves serious consequences and it must be defined as such. a legal definition of stalking is needed in order to protect the victims’ personal safety and to enforce her or his right to safe determination. the safety of victims of stalking relies upon criminal justice professionals’ ability to recognise this damaging pattern of behaviour and to take appropriate action to stop it. we must ensure that police officers and prosecutors across the european union take stalking seriously and treat every allegation with serious concern.
in writing. children and minors are among the most vulnerable. according to unicef, there are 5.4 million young migrants in europe, of whom 46% are unaccompanied or separated from their parents. children in particular are particularly affected by the dangers of trafficking and exploitation. the member states are therefore invited to do everything in their power to ensure that the best interests of the child are served. the member states still lack childcare facilities to provide psychological and psychiatric support to refugee minors. the search for missing children and the fight against child trafficking must be intensified through cross-border cooperation. access to child protection officers shall be provided at hotspots and border crossings. but integration in the member states must also be further promoted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the duration of integration into schools varies from country to country, and some minors are still not accommodated in educational institutions three months after the asylum application is submitted. the union shall contribute to the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against trafficking in human beings, in particular by supporting the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against trafficking in human beings, and by supporting the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against trafficking in human beings, in particular by supporting the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against trafficking in human beings, and by supporting the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against trafficking in human beings. when accommodating minors, care shall be taken to ensure that minors are accommodated separately from adults in order to prevent the risk of violence and sexual abuse.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we have here an example of what we can learn from europe, of what we can be proud of. we have given industry and research enough time - the previous speakers have done it: in 2004 the first push, then finally in 2013 a general ban on marketing. this best practice shows that a lot can be achieved by working with industry and research. we have further secured our market, we can be sure that the products that reach consumers are products that are not harmful to health, and we have taken a big step towards animal welfare and animal welfare. i believe that this appeal to ban animal testing for cosmetics worldwide is more important because we may be able to press for products which are not yet covered by this regulation, namely those ingredients which can still be tested on animals because they have other uses in the pharmaceutical sector, in the detergent sector, etc. i think that we can really create incentives here to ban these ingredients in the future because there are alternatives. i ask you to ensure that, as you have done today, these requirements are not weakened, particularly by wto rules. i would also like to appeal to all those colleagues who are currently discussing international trade agreements for the european union to include this appeal in their discussions, and to ensure that in future international agreements in the european union do not include the use of animal testing for cosmetics in these countries. this is particularly true of china, because the reverse is actually the case there at the moment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it's a dangerous business. we work with heavy animals, we work with heavy machinery, we work on the chainsaw. i raised three kids on a farm. the question at the end of the day is, after seven, eight, nine hours of chainsaw work, can i put my machine away because i can afford it, because i've made enough money to feed my family? several of our members have pointed out that the point is that farm incomes must be designed in such a way that i can feed a family on them and i do not have to work 10, 11 or 12 hours to afford them. that is the crucial question! because if i'm tired and a tree falls on my head, the best safety gear won't help.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm afraid i have a different view of the praise. the automobile manufacturers and their supplier industries are the backbone of european industry. here we are still the continent that sets the tone. over 50% of the world's patents for autonomous driving come from either munich, ingolstadt or stuttgart. and at the same time, it is the only it sector where europe is the measure of things. we know that autonomous driving is going to change our society massively. and then you'd think that area would have priority. it is also of considerable importance for jobs, trade, energy, environmental policy and research. the commission has not done anything for a long time, and now that the hat is on fire, something is quickly added here and there, as in platooning, or at least a strategy is announced. it is also stated that the data on the cars would be of interest to the authorities or to third parties. yes, of course! but it's not enough that different stakeholders notice it in the background, the commission announces it, and the car dealer has to swallow the wisdom. this is precisely the kind of patronage, this backroom politics, that is hard to swallow even for convinced europeans. better lawmaking is different, and the procedure, in my view, borders on contempt of parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. everyone likes to talk about climate change. but at the same time, it is a fact that the co2 emissions in the transport sector continue to increase, because more and more goods are transported by road. just talking about climate change is not going to be enough to drive climate change and reduce emissions. it needs action! the commission has recognized this by presenting the proposal and is finally turning from talk to action. strict emissions standards for heavy-duty vehicles and an industry initiative for clean battery production in europe are long overdue. it is high time that you no longer bowed to the interests of the car industry which has lied to european consumers for decades. the ecological transport revolution must come, there is no way around it. the commission's proposals focus on the reduction of greenhouse gases in the transport sector. that makes me positive and optimistic that we can make the change.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the new agricultural policy will have an impact on our farms, on the health of the food supply for our citizens and on the environment. the first objective must be the preservation of our agricultural structures. we need fair producer prices for producers and reasonable payments for small and mediumsized farms too. the second objective i see is the production of healthy food by european farmers for european citizens. because we use european taxpayers' money to give subsidies here. the aim is to produce food for european citizens. the third objective must focus on climate benefits rather than climate damage, laying the foundations for clean water, ensuring healthy soils, using a minimum of pesticides and farming in the best possible harmony with nature. and fourthly, i hope that the subsidies for agriculture, for livestock farming and for a way of doing business at the expense of future generations will be stopped. we didn't inherit the land from our parents, we borrowed it from our grandchildren. that should be the first principle of our policy. i would like to thank mr dorfmann and my co-rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that the cap reform has finally reached parliament. as we have been stressing for years, the preservation of europe's cultural landscape is of great importance, and small and mediumsized farms in particular make a major contribution to this. the fact that large farms are being deprived of the opportunity to receive six-figure subsidies per year simply by leaving their land fallow is also welcome. the policy must learn to appreciate the quality of our domestic products and, above all, to clarify the protection of prices. the idea of simplifying the procedure for obtaining subsidies as a farmer, without having completed a degree in eu bureaucracy, is also worth highlighting. but until we know for sure who will be the net final funders of this cap reform and of the multiannual financial framework, i would suggest that we should not rejoice too soon over these well-intentioned promises.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am alarmed and concerned that only six per cent of all farmers are under 35 years of age. i am alarmed and concerned that the number of young farmers in the eu has fallen by a third from 3.3 million to 2.3 million. the total number of holdings has decreased by 3.8 million, while the average size of holdings has increased by 36%. i think the two reports we are discussing today belong together and we will judge your response to the legislative proposals to be tabled on friday by those two reports, not the other way around. the two reports do not concern net payers or net recipients. the beneficiaries of a competitive, sustainable, equitable and inclusive rural agriculture, of social cohesion in rural areas, of high food standards, of a cultural and natural landscape worth living in, of a young generation that enjoys farming with confidence, are all citizens. so we should do what we have to do and not let agriculture spoil the brexit soup.
in writing. the report argues that european investors need to increase their investment in green technologies to meet internationally agreed climate targets. the commission estimates that the annual investment in sustainable infrastructure required to achieve the sdgs is between eur 4,7 and 6,7 trillion. at present, investing in environmentally friendly technologies is not very profitable and rather risky. the report finds that investors underestimate the wage and social benefits of a decarbonised, green and sustainable economy. the report calls on the eu to learn from 'best practices' such as the german energy transition and make them minimum standards for all member states to attract investment and ensure a just and rapid transition to a sustainable economy. investment incentives include market mechanisms such as disclosure of climate risks, but also strong public investment and green bond issuance. although i fully support a boost to investment in a greener and more sustainable economy, i think it is rather risky to interfere politically in forecasts of the creditworthiness and profitability of green investment opportunities. such interventionist measures are vulnerable to market bubbles. i fully agree with the warning of dr. elke könig, chair of the systemic risk boards, that sustainability does not necessarily mean risk-free.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to congratulate mr arthuis because i think he has put it well: it is about european added value. one of the issues is, of course, unemployment in europe. i believe that the programmes which combat unemployment are the main focus here. mr arthuis, do you think that in future these programmes should be considerably strengthened, such as the cosme programme, which gives small and mediumsized enterprises the opportunity to create new jobs here?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the community's structural funds is a very good one. i think the key would be if there was a corresponding resizing, which means that on the one hand we are going towards halving at the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and look at what comes in here in terms of policies: from shower heads, tractor seats, to varying degrees of browning on french fries, we're on the wrong track. i think that a resizing would also be good as far as the european parliament is concerned. now that the british are leaving, not just saving british seats here, but even adding them, is the wrong way to go. we could also go in the direction of halving and thus increase the efficiency of this house and the parliamentary discourse accordingly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the financing policy of this european union will be heading in the right direction for the years to come.
in writing. when we talk about the new eu budget, we should first talk about what we want to prioritise. we social democrats have these things right in front of us: investment in the future, in youth employment and research must take precedence over industrial agricultural production. the money for the future challenges is to be raised by the corporations. we must therefore increase our own resources, and we must do this by means of an emissions trading system, the eu corporate tax, a european plastic tax, and also by taxing the digital economy and financial transactions! while many member states are at odds with each other from the start, european finance ministers are missing out on billions in tax revenue by acting reluctantly against the legal tax ploys of the big corporations. if we were to close the tax loopholes, the european budget would be easily depleted.
i have to say, madam president, equal pay for equal work in the same place - that is a milestone for a social europe. why would you do that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the hungarian harvestman is finally free of the three-euro hunger wage he is forced to work for in the austrian burgenland. the next thing we have to do in the european parliament is to ensure that truck drivers are also covered by the posting directive, that it is not possible for truck drivers to be commuting for weeks across europe on a salary of two euros. europe will be social or it will not be. we can take an important step, make an important contribution to this today. the austrian government, on the other hand, i expect more from it when it takes over the presidency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of the single market.
i have to say, madam president, let's not talk about the hot potato: gaza is a prison and has been for ten years for two million people. the prison guards are israel, egypt and hamas. how do people react, especially when they feel innocent and oppressed? they're revolting, they're trying to break out. if they do, they will be shot at, and there will be dozens of dead, thousands of injured. in gaza, women and children were among them. is there a way out? tom friedman, the well-known columnist for the new york times, has a suggestion. what if all two million inhabitants, he writes, walked to the border with laurel branches and shouted: "we want peace!"? would hamas want that? what would israel do? the current situation is more in line with prime minister netanyahu's concept: no progress in the peace process and blaming the palestinians for everything. but could the eu not perhaps...? well, we hope we haven't been waiting in vain.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. president trump is ruthlessly protective. it is now that europe must make a special effort to promote progressive and fair trade. protectionism and nationalism are ghosts of the past and are not the right answers to the challenges of the present. if trump is accusing the eu of unfair trade practices, he simply did not understand. we want to protect the internal market and european jobs from unfair conditions of competition. the eu must obtain an unconditional exemption for the planned punitive duties. the national security argument is of little use to the european side. in reality, these are covert safeguard measures which are not compatible with the wto. if there are penalties, we will respond with countervailing measures to restore the balance. i expect europe to use its strength and stand united against trump and the us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the schengen area is an essential prerequisite for the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. so it is important to regularly and self-critically examine what you can improve. the annual progress report, as presented today by mr carlos coelho, is a good opportunity to do this. it shows above all that schengen is a success story, despite all the criticisms. the reintroduction of border controls would cause immense damage. weaknesses must therefore be identified without mercy. i see three areas: the insufficient protection of the external borders, which is also based on the pride of some member states in their national sovereignty, and especially the dublin regime, which has not worked from the beginning, have contributed a lot to the credibility crisis. both have clear ideas of our house. and indeed, more europe could improve the security situation. the permanent border controls, which are motivated by symbolic politics, are also a serious problem. we see this every time we arrive at strasbourg airport for the plenary session. what is the security benefit? or if the austrian-bavarian border area has controlled motorway crossings but not the other border crossings. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to begin by thanking my co-rapporteur, ms jiménez-becerril barrio, and all the shadow rapporteurs for an excellent cooperation on this report. by assessing the implementation of the victims’ directive, we focused on the many areas that still needs to be improved in order to fully protect and support victims of crime. by strengthening these areas, we want to make sure that any victim, no matter where in the european union, receives the same level of rights, support and access to justice. we should leave no one behind. we welcome that some member states have successfully implemented certain actions, but much more needs to be done. we must give visibility to the victims. the justice systems in the member states must give priority to those who suffered, give them a voice and provide them with the support in order for them to rebuild their lives, such as access to shelters and to justice. we must build trust and help victims to report the crime. too many crimes go unreported, and this is very much linked to fear, embarrassment and social stigma. this is, of course, especially in cases of crimes related to domestic and gender-based violence, trafficking and forced labour. this report is one step forward in our commitment to fight gender-based violence. therefore, i call on the member states to set up specific support programmes targeting, in particular, some of the most vulnerable victims of gender-based violence, such as refugees and migrants, people with disabilities, roma, persons belonging to national ethnic or religious minorities, lgbtqi, elderly women and homeless women. we all know that we have to do much more to respond to the cries for justice of women who have suffered violence. we have to do much more to end these horrible abuses and the impunity that allows these human rights violations to continue. the effects of violence can remain with women and girls for a lifetime and can pass from one generation to the next. this violence against women has tremendous costs to communities, nations and societies for public wellbeing, health and safety, law enforcement and public programmes and budgets. for an effective response to these crimes, a holistic approach is necessary. all of society has to join forces and work together. police officers, lawyers, medical practitioners and social workers must be trained to address the needs of victims in an adequate manner. we must remember that these professionals are often the first point of contact for vulnerable victims. finally, this speech could not be held without stressing the importance of the istanbul convention, as already mentioned by my co-rapporteur. a crucial tool to prevent and to combat violence against women: a wave of opposition to the so-called gender ideology has emerged, and i urge the remaining ten member states who have not yet ratified the convention to do so. this is your chance to stand on the right side of history.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe is not only a single market, it is also a common area of security and justice. in addition to the prevention of crime and the prosecution of offenders, the protection of victims should be a priority. both the european commission of human rights and the charter of fundamental rights provide for special protection needs. more than five years ago, we were very proud to be able to adopt in this house a directive on the protection of victims, which sets out minimum european standards. no one believed then that this important measure would simply not be taken seriously by some member states. it is scandalous and totally incomprehensible that the politicians responsible for the problems and misery of innocent people have no choice. the commission's efforts to remove this stain are to be welcomed and therefore deserve our full support.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all those colleagues who expressed their views. i think from this debate it became clear that there is a real need for a common standard and a protection for victims of crime all over the european union. i think we all expressed a plea to the member states to implement the directive and our recommendations. i would like to express my big hope that we will have a good result tomorrow at the vote; i count on your support, and thank you all very much in advance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is high time that the european side responded appropriately to the threat of dumped products. it is gratifying that after years of discussion the council has finally reached agreement. we already adopted a position on this in the european parliament in 2014. the fact that environmental and labour standards, as well as free wage negotiations and the ilo core labour standards will be taken into account in the future in the calculation of dumping is due mainly to pressure from the social democrats. our task is to ensure the best possible protection for european industry and the european labour market, because after all, we are talking about 200 000 jobs for steel workers in europe, who are threatened by dumped imports from china. we must put an end to the cheap imports which distort competition. with this legislation, this is now possible. congratulations to the negotiating team.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we know that the implementation of trade agreements is not working satisfactorily. we must monitor more closely, especially after the agreements are concluded, whether the provisions are being respected and what the impact of the agreement is on the economy and on society. we must identify the problems associated with implementation and find solutions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. in this context, it is also essential to strengthen and enhance the role of civil society and the domestic advisory groups in the implementation of trade agreements and to better equip their resources. the commission will also be supporting the development of a european strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources, including the establishment of a european environment agency. if we are serious about 'trade for all', then sustainability, the protection of workers and the protection of environmental standards must be given the same importance as, for example, the liberalisation of customs duties. it certainly needs more transparency. i would like to stress in particular the publication of the negotiating mandate. if we do not act now, inequality will only increase and we will never have an equal share of the benefits of the agreements.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome the fact that we are having this debate today. it's overdue, and this is the right time to do it. citizenship is increasingly determining the life that a person can lead. the question of who belongs to a nation has become part of often shameful political debates. for various reasons, people are deprived of the opportunity to settle permanently in other countries, even if this is necessary for reasons of political persecution or economic necessity. this debate is being held loudly. in some member states, protection of asylum seekers has become a political business model. at the same time, another practice quietly took hold: people could find permanent residence, they just needed to have the financial means. almost half of the member states have such programmes. the cut varies, but the principle is the same everywhere: it is not need that determines, but financial capacity. all the barriers that individual member states have erected against immigration are suddenly meaningless, and the principles that were invoked for them are suddenly no longer valid. this is outrageous. the fact that most countries are still on the offensive makes matters worse. these practices deserve european attention. we must not leave it to the individual member states to decide who they will recruit as citizens - firstly because citizenship also gives them citizenship of the union and the right to move freely, and secondly because this business model is a stimulus to money laundering and encourages criminal practices. this is what the experience so far shows. the commission is well advised to prepare a legislative proposal to this effect.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a number of eu member states offer citizenship and residence permits, the so-called 'golden visas'. and some of them - malta, cyprus and portugal - have already been mentioned in the reports of this house, in particular by the taxe special committee and the pana committee of inquiry, as examples and have been criticised for this. the award of 'golden visas' is a lucrative business for the member states. cyprus alone has generated €4.8 billion in revenue from the granting of citizenship to 1685 foreign investors over the last decade, most recently very prominent: oleg deripaska. my own country, austria, is also always mentioned in this context - i think it is totally wrong, because the so-called superparagraph, paragraph 10 of article 6 of the austrian citizenship law, does not explicitly provide for 'golden visas'. the citizenship of austria is granted only in exceptional cases, namely to 300 persons in the last ten years. these are primarily artists, such as the opera singer anna netrebko, sportsmen or distinguished personalities. the golden visa scheme is, of course, characterised by a lack of transparency suspicions of corruption and circumvention of common accounting standards must be avoided. here 's the fitness check ... (the president cut the speaker off)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – mr president, i would like to thank ms gardini for her excellent work on this report. people often seemed surprised. what does gender equality have to do with the union’s civil protection mechanism? well, in fact, a lot. gender equality is a fundamental value of the european union and therefore, in the context of the union’s civil protection mechanism, member states must consider gender in all phases, from prevention to preparedness and response processes, because natural and human-made disasters, as well as environmental policies, affect men and women differently. colleagues, you will also be voting on this very important issue. i urge you to support the view that money should not be taken from funds allocated to the key european policies, such as those promoting rights, equality and citizenship, including all the funds allocated to gender equality and women’s empowerment programmes and projects. instead, any additional funding necessary should be mobilised using the flexibility provisions of the mff regulation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not in principle, any union coordination and support measure in the event of a disaster is to be welcomed. fortunately, the rapporteur also believes that the decision on the use of national capacities should be taken by the sending state. however, there are some problems. the deduction of capacity once deployed could prove to be legally questionable, since the commission must be consulted first and the member state cannot decide this alone. the supporting coordination becomes a clear control for me. the fact that resceu could increase the planned eu own capacities by means of delegated acts at its discretion is also more than problematic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not a political body.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am therefore glad that we have succeeded in establishing a disaster prevention model through a parliamentary process which respects the principle of subsidiarity but also the principle of solidarity. i thank rapporteur elisabetta gardini and commissioner stylianides for the openness they have shown throughout this process. the european union needs better disaster protection. this was shown, for example, when aid from other parts of the world was sometimes faster than that from the european union in the case of the forest fires in portugal. to find out how better disaster prevention can work, you can first look at where it already works well. i am therefore glad that from my home country, austria, top representatives of the fire brigade, the red cross and rescue organisations were in the european parliament in brussels to report on how this works in our country. on this basis, as someone who has been a member of the european parliament for exactly six months now, i have found that a parliamentary process can change a lot about a commission proposal which is essentially centralistic, and we now have a proposal which we can wholeheartedly support because it really gives the regions what they can do and makes disaster protection at eu level possible where we need it at a larger level. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have followed the austrian colleague's remarks with great interest and can underline much of what he said. i would like to ask you, mr president, if you are aware of the position of the land of upper austria on the proposal. and do you know what the vorarlberg region thinks of these proposals?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. what you may be referring to is the old commission proposal. what i am referring to is what we have worked out in the parliamentary process in the preliminary discussions in committee, what we can decide here in the plenary tomorrow. and this is not the centralist and bureaucratic commission proposal - if i may say so - but a proposal which honours subsidiarity and freedom, a proposal which we have also been considering together with the voluntary organizations in austria on several occasions and which we have drawn up on this basis and which we can fully support.
i have to say, madam president, the indecision and inertia of the turkish question are particularly remarkable. either the commission is pursuing a particularly sophisticated strategy here, or it is simply helplessness. we are here today - and this is the case throughout the house - constantly concerned about the situation in turkey, and we are discussing this for the tenth time. the situation in turkey is also really untenable, both as regards democratic rights and civil rights and freedom of the press. there's never any deals. there are empty words being used in this house. we have heard this many times before: a total of nine billion euros will be paid to turkey as pre-accession aid. and what happens to that money? there is no control! we have a good chance, on the other hand, of filling the budgetary gap left by the british with these nine billion. the only thing left to say is that our demand remains: the immediate termination of the accession negotiations and the immediate suspension of the payment of european taxpayers' money to turkey.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are facing with iran a regime which, according to amnesty international, brutally represents half of all death sentences in the world and which is against all human rights and eu values. we are facing a brutal dictatorship which is responsible for half of all death sentences in the whole world, against all human rights and values of the eu. young women and men protest in the streets of iran for freedom and democracy. it is our duty as european politicians to support these people. we must stop looking to the nuclear agreement and the treaties. we have to stop only looking for the nuclear agreement and the business we are chasing ahead. so it is clear that we have to stop our policy. so we face iran with a regime which threatens the whole peace in the world by trying to extinguish israel. we must stop supporting this regime. hezbollah and hamas must be cut off from iranian funding. stop the iranian regime today!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. ten years ago, we didn't know what a smartphone could do. we didn't know that the refugees were communicating with each other on the refugee routes. we didn't know that six north african dictatorships would fall because of this smartphone, and we didn't know that we spend a third of our waking hours on this phone. why do i say that? we're voting on a bill tomorrow on drones. drones are going to be a game changer. we don't know how the story of the drones will develop, but we have taken a bold step. and i say this quite consciously, whereas i usually criticize something that is in the legislative field: we are going to vote tomorrow on a uniform european approval for drones, and we are also going to vote on the uniform european training for the pilots. that's wonderful. and we are giving the member states the possibility of acting in a subsidiary way, i.e. they decide when, why, where these drones may fly and who controls the whole thing. this is a procedure which is really important for all europeans and also for europe's image throughout the world. i welcome this very much and am delighted because this is what europe must do!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there is no question at all, of course: we need action! i am, like probably everyone here, curious to see how the current events at daimler will develop. if you add the truck cartel to the volkswagen story, you have to realize that the industry absolutely needs rules and controls. stricter rules and checks are needed, not only because of the lack of trust, but also so that we can check how our decisions are working in practice. i very much doubt that taxes on fuel have saved a single spark of co2. this will only make road transport more expensive for users and consumers. i believe with all my heart that the majority of this house and of europe share the same objective. the environmental impact should be reduced, the sector should play its part in climate protection and we should - also for geopolitical reasons - move away from oil. synthetic fuels not only protect the environment, they reduce our dependence on them and bring the value chain back to europe. the batteries don't solve this problem, they actually create new ones. i would therefore caution against giving in to current events and focusing solely on the road and the combustion engine. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. only the finance minister is happy. the development of engine and exhaust technology helps, as euro standards have impressively demonstrated. the cost cannot simply be passed on to the consumer, but it is pushing the producers in the right direction. i repeat, we need monitoring, but we certainly do not need the eco-waste trade.
i have to say, madam president, in recent years, there has been hardly a summit that did not deal with the issue of refugees and migration. this could be seen as an indication of the importance of the member states in resolving the problem. but if that were the case, then every summit would have to be followed by a series of measures. unfortunately, that is not the case. the unresolved problems are increasing. and once something happens, it's badly communicated. all this has created a feeling of insecurity among the population, and many people feel that europe has failed them. it seems that this state of affairs is not so unfair to some rulers, because the game of fear has long since become a successful political business model. but in the long term this puts the very existence of the european project at risk, and it is therefore necessary that the heads of state and government finally overcome this intolerable paralysis and engage with us in constructive negotiations on the asylum package. if that doesn't happen again, we should take legal action.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i am pleased to say that for more than five months now - with a strong increase in popular support - austria has had a government that is finally putting a stop to the illegal flows of migrants, fighting islamism, fighting crime and stopping these migration flows, which have been heading towards europe since 2015, from the austrian side. in this context, it is an excellent thing that in italy too a person from our party alliance, matteo salvini, is working as minister of the interior. and matteo salvini is right to finally stop the more than 600 people on board the aquarius, this ship, and to deny them entry to italy. the key is that the people who are coming to europe from here get help on the ground. and when ships try to come to europe to help people, to give them food, to get medicine on board, but to bring them back to the port of origin and to get help on board in their regions, and not to bring them all to europe. this is the wrong way.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! the euro summit is due to take place at the end of june and will set the course for the key issues of deepening economic and monetary union and stabilising the euro zone. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes, in particular the conversion of the european stability mechanism into a european monetary fund and additional financial instruments to promote investment and innovation, as well as a common backstop for bank resolution. but we also want democratic legitimacy, that is to say, the proper involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments in these financial instruments. the german chancellor made concrete proposals last week, and leading commentators agree that much more than what merkel has brought to the debate will not be decided by the heads of state or government at the end of june. these proposals are three modified financial instruments: first, a short-term credit line from the new european monetary fund for member states in difficulty as a result of external circumstances; second, an investment budget; and third, an additional budget for the implementation of structural reforms. the commission will love these proposals. i would just ask you, commissioner dombrovskis, to respect the principle of democratic legitimacy and accountability and to ensure that the national parliaments ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. today is a special day for austria: 24 years ago, austrians voted in a referendum with a two-thirds majority 'yes' to membership of the european union, making it clear that our future is closely linked to the future of the european union and that we are actively involved in every step of integration. we had said 'yes' a few years after maastricht. maastricht created the euro, our common currency, as a political project that unites rather than divides. and we knew very well that we currently have only one common currency, but the only common currency that does not have a common budgetary, fiscal, economic and tax policy. and we knew we had to work on this common budgetary, fiscal, economic, social and tax policy to stabilise the euro and to create a strong common currency in the single market. we're not done with this, but we need to pick up the pace. the lessons: we need to complete key instruments for joint risk containment and shoulder and more proportionality: banking union, capital markets union. we must carry out institutional reforms and transform the european stability mechanism into a european monetary fund under community law. and we need a euro budget within the framework of the new eu budget and based on own resources.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr buchner, we are all interested in the most positive development of europe's economic relations with all the countries of the world. we have the wto and the appellate body and we are really trying to get things going in the right direction, not just multilaterally but also plurilaterally. do you think it is possible to create a corresponding basis here with iran, so that our businesses, the economy, can come together with small and mediumsized businesses and that both sides will be in favour of a peaceful solution?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the nuclear agreement with iran has rightly been hailed as a triumph of diplomacy. a seemingly intractable problem was resolved through dialogue and confidence-building measures, and the efforts of the high commissioner for foreign affairs, federica mogherini, were essential to this success. it was not only proof that european foreign policy can work, but also a strong signal for multilateralism. the agreement also opened the door to possible developments in the region, to peace, to greater prosperity, democracy and the rule of law, to greater stability overall - all of which depends on iran's adherence to the agreements. the iaea has repeatedly stated that the agreements have been fulfilled. the decision of the american president to ignore all this is irresponsible and represents a radical breach of the principle of trust. what basis will conflict be based on in the future when it is no longer possible to rely on agreements being respected? it is therefore to be welcomed that we are sticking to our agreements. but it cannot be limited to goodwill alone; it needs robust safeguards, also in the interests of european companies, which have made decisions in the confidence of the validity of international agreements. the european investment bank is needed here. all the projects of common interest that have been carried out so far must be continued, such as the human rights dialogue, which is just beginning to take shape and which is very important and will be decisive, or the joint efforts to combat drug trafficking or regional security cooperation. it would be very helpful if we could now also tackle the opening of an eu delegation in tehran. the present crisis can only be resolved by intensive diplomatic activity, as has already been done.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european union is also committed to the development of the european union's energy policy. in that time, chile has done a lot. it's been done a lot in south america in general. but chile is already in a special position here. i think that we as a union are far too inactive in relation to south america. chile has this special position, and we should not lose sight of that. in particular, for south america as a whole: wherever we go, the chinese are often there, and we must keep that in mind. my experience, which i have repeatedly made on the ground, is that this development, especially in chile, has once again received a catalyst since the last election in 2017. i have already spoken to our foreign minister, for example, about the fact that we austrians will be making a trip there soon to improve relations. economically, there's a lot going on in this country. this is not only because of the abundance of natural resources, but this country is actually a prosperous country. the people there are very educated, and i think it's only logical that we can be a special partner for chile.
i have to say, madam president, it is not long ago that human rights were at the centre of international politics and no state dared to argue against them. today, it's a very different situation: many people see it as a nice to have, some states even openly mock it. human rights ngos are being restricted in their freedom of movement and their activists are being persecuted more and more frequently and more brazenly. in a world like this, it's important that not everyone succumbs to the zeitgeist. the european union is now the most important global actor in the field of human rights; the european union's foreign policy is centred on their observance. we have developed our own tools, and our delegations have become hotspots for human rights activists all over the world. but this should not make us complacent. we must do more, we must improve our instruments, we must involve the member states more and we must look for allies. but above all, we must strengthen the self-healing power of the world, and that is civil society.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the problems we have in crimea, the problems we have in ukraine, the problems we have in georgia, all have a common cause: russia does not respect international treaties, russia intervenes militarily and occupies, and russia does not respect the sovereignty of neighboring states. but we must also say to ourselves today, when we look back on the past ten years: we have reacted less strongly, less firmly, less resolutely to georgia than we did to ukraine and the post-crimean invasion. we could have prevented a lot of things in ukraine and crimea if we had acted so decisively and so unitedly in georgia. the situation is therefore clear: russia must abide by its international obligations and withdraw its forces from the territory. the observer mission in the territories of south ossetia and abkhazia is hereby authorised. the eu-georgia stabilisation agreement, in which we continue to work successfully together, needs to be extended and deepened.
in writing. in our globally connected world, modern technology has brought many benefits and made many things easier for us. unfortunately, the transition to a digital society also involves risks and threats. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. cyber threats are a threat and are becoming more and more present. i am particularly concerned about the protection of critical energy infrastructure from attacks from the internet - an area that has only recently received more attention and in which we cannot invest enough in protecting it. energy infrastructure is an essential service, because it is the only way to ensure the proper functioning of a modern society and economy. this is where a cyber attack can have particularly devastating and frightening effects. if there was a cyber attack on our energy supply, we wouldn't be in this room, we wouldn't be in strasbourg, we would probably be locked in our homes. lamps, cell phones, refrigerators, our water supply, gas stations and many other things - nothing would work. the debate on an eu response to so-called cyber threats is therefore also an important one. it should be conducted in detail, with the appropriate seriousness and the necessary pragmatism.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, dear commissioner. all around the world, in every country, women and girls still struggle to exercise their full human rights. violence against women and girls is perhaps the most obvious manifestation of the deep imbalances empowering our societies and the vulnerabilities and limitations that follow them, especially for the most marginalised groups when vulnerabilities are at their peak and protections at their lowest point. this year marks the first anniversary of the signing by the european union of the istanbul convention, and it is an opportunity for us to reflect on the steps that have been taken so far. but it is also a possibility for a wake-up call. only robust action can ensure women a life free from violence. i welcome the steps that have been taken in the negotiations of the code of conduct, which lays down the rights and obligations of the eu and the member states under the convention. this gives me the opportunity to call on the next eu council presidency, austria – my country – to conclude the code of conduct and to find a political agreement with the remaining problematic member states who keep blocking the ratification by the european union of the istanbul convention. for those member states i have a crystal clear message: i urge you to stop spreading outrageous misinformation about the convention and its content. gender is not a threat; domestic violence is.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the one hand, it is regrettable that some member states have not yet ratified the istanbul convention, but on the other hand, it is clear time and again that ratification of the treaty is not accompanied by the protection of women. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on women's rights. in 2017, 409 women were murdered in turkey under these circumstances. they are all silent witnesses to an archaic islam, as turkish president erdoğan would obviously like it to be. it is no surprise, then, that earlier this year, the turkish state religious authority proposed allowing marriage for children once they reach puberty. for us, ladies and gentlemen, a wake-up call to prevent islamist parallel societies with their archaic image of women in our midst. commissioner timmermans, you obviously need a refresher course in religious studies if you are asking at this point today which religion clearly allows violence against women. condemning violence against women is right and important. but to combat them preventively, commissioner, is in my view of even greater importance.
in writing. today marks the first anniversary of the signing of the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. the convention has not yet been ratified by 10 member states, including bulgaria, which currently holds the presidency of the council. it is a moral duty to do more than make declarations of intent to protect women. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the own home is still the greatest threat to far too many women. in austria, one in five women has experienced physical or sexual violence at some point in her life, and in the eu, one in three women. we have taken a first step towards greater protection for women with the istanbul convention, but now we must go further and fight for legal protection of women against violence to finally have binding effect in the eu. i expect the austrian presidency to take a decisive step in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i should like to begin by thanking vice-president timmermans for his reply. i can underline every single sentence, and it was also different from yours, mr prime minister, because there was not a single contradiction in the wording. so i have to ask. you speak of unity. i therefore ask you: are you prepared to reduce unanimity so that the european union can act more effectively? are you in favour of increased own resources in the european budget and of own resources for the creation of a euro budget in the eu budget? are you in favour of common standards for asylum? are you in favour of a common immigration policy? are you in favour of the european monetary fund? are you in favour of a sanction mechanism for violations of european and international law and european values? and you speak of the tensions between national parliaments and the european parliament. we only have them if we don't have clear responsibilities. we have to have unanimity and intergovernmentalism. the european parliament should be given democratic legitimacy and control over all matters where decisions are taken at european level.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. if populists in the beer tent shout: 'no more eurocents for europe!' then that is one thing. but when a serious politician - and i appreciate you as such - says in this house that we are only asking for more and more and more instead of dealing with the future of europe in terms of content, i feel that to a certain extent it is an affront. because we didn't just demand more and more. we have made very specific demands that what we have agreed on in the past and what we have committed ourselves to be respected, that the achievements we have already promised for this europe - whether in the field of the cohesion funds or in the field of agriculture - can be achieved. and we have agreed with the commission and the council to take on new tasks which we have defined as common tasks. these tasks require budgetary resources. and i ask you: beer is beer, but parliament and the future of europe are something we want to deal with seriously. we do not need more europe in general, we need a better, more social, more just europe.
mr president, mr prime minister – here. it’s good to have you back in the parliament, and i am referring to this, in particular, because i remember you were here in january of 2016, and at this point you said: ‘we have two months more in order to settle the resettlement issue’. and now it’s been, i think, 29 months since you said this, and we still haven’t a solution for that problem. so i ask you: why did you fail, and what kind of hopes do you have for the next presidency, which will also have to tackle that issue?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, what i will say is also directed at the people of poland. let me be clear. our political group appreciates the substantial contribution of the polish people to restoring democracy in the east of europe. we see the enormous progress the country has made since. we are also aware that not all aspirations have been met and that many people feel left behind. we understand that some people are angry. we have to be concerned. and if we don’t deliver, more and more people will turns their backs against democracy. the current discussion on and in poland is about the state of democracy. it is worrying to see the signs from your country. democracy, which your nation was so admirably fighting for, is in danger. all of us have the right to insist that a member state is adherent to its constitution. we have to know that our partners are predictable. in poland, the constitution is at stake. we are concerned about the independence of the judiciary – a key element of every democracy. we share this concern with relevant authorities such as the human rights committee or the venice commission, renowned scholars and friends of poland around the world. our group was satisfied that the commission has activated article 7, and in march, parliament explicitly welcomed this decision and urged the council to take swift action. they acknowledged that this action put the polish government in negotiation mode. but the results are poor and more or less cosmetic. the recommendations of the commission have not been fulfilled. the polish government continued its so-called reform of the judiciary. almost 40 per cent of the judges will be forced into early retirement, and procedural rules are fundamentally changed. in less than three weeks there could be no independent judiciary in poland any more. if the measures enter into force as planned, a large number of sitting judges of the supreme court will see their tenure unconstitutionally extinguished, including the first president of the court. in combination with an increase in the number of seats, this means that the government-controlled national council of the judiciary will be in a position to appoint a majority of the judges. this could mean the end of checks and balances in your country. we must not accept this. it is against the polish constitution and against the treaties, and it is against the people of poland, who gave their approval in referendums for this. the situation is serious and urgent and we are obliged to act now – and not later, when democracy could be already severely damaged. this is not the moment for short-sighted political manoeuvres. after all the experiences with the council (sorry), we must not expect that the summit at the end of june will deliver any clear results. therefore, we appeal to the members of the commission to fully stand behind its vice-president timmermans. the commission has to take strong action before july. it must refer this case to the court of justice. to make it clear, dear colleagues: if we give up poland, we give up europe.
in writing. this week's events on the aquarius refugee boat show us clearly how far europe's right-wing parties are prepared to go. they are not in the least interested in a real solution, and worse still, they accept dying in the mediterranean to continue their policy of prejudice and fear. i expected nothing different from orbán, kickl and salvini. the fact that european christian democrats are now joining the chorus of the far right with seehofer and kurz is a fire hazard for the eu. proposals for reform of the european asylum system have been around for a long time and have been delayed time and time again. people do not want rhetoric, they want solutions. the european parliament has repeatedly stated its clear position: we need legal entry, clearly defined distribution quotas and financial support for the countries of origin.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank commissioner bieńkowska very warmly. we all know - angelika niebler has already made it clear - that there is of course the danger, as with the basic regulation on data protection, of creating an enormous amount of bureaucracy, and that this disproportionate use of bureaucracy in the member states is of course a particular danger. we know gold plating is something that's very well received. i would therefore encourage the use of better legislation here, in particular in the sense that each member state really carries out the sme test and accordingly makes it as simple and transparent as possible for the member companies. i believe that the recognition of compulsory membership is a positive sign, that of course the recognition of the master's examination - that is, of this traditional dual system - is of the utmost importance to us and that subsidiarity can really be practiced in this area. i would therefore ask the member states to ensure that the health professions are also covered by the same rules. we know that health tourism also plays an important role in europe, and that is why the recognition of professional qualifications in proportion is an important and right step in the right direction. i would like to thank all the colleagues involved in this. if it is implemented sensibly, it is a step in the right direction.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have a question: there are constant reports in the media that terrorist networks are being supported from outside europe, particularly in the middle east. the newspapers say that turkey, iran, qatar and other countries are supporting such networks. do you think that in the area of financial markets, there should be an investigation at european level as to who is funding this, whether it is islamic groups or who is behind such influence?
i have to say, madam president, i want to start today on the positive side. commissioner, the 2011 anti-corruption package is something very sensible. there are measures for the member states; there are strategies to combat corruption; there are high standards of anti-corruption that should be promoted; the aim of the project is to identify weaknesses and make recommendations. and now tell us: what the commission does is to talk to the member states and to promote exchanges between the anti-corruption agencies in the member states. if i tell you now - something you know for sure - that we have a member state where over the last ten years, 1000 corruption charges have been brought and where the head of the anti-corruption unit is to be dismissed because she is allegedly damaging the country's external reputation, then i would very much like to know what your opinion is on this subject. the fact is that we are talking about money which could easily be used by the member states as co-financing money for eu subsidies. i have not yet heard the commission's outcry. i think it is really your duty to promote anti-corruption, to publish the 2016 corruption report, which is out of date in some drawer, to relaunch it, to publish a new report and finally to open your eyes and not just to advise member states or encourage an exchange, but to take a very massive and vehement action against corruption in the member states. it is all of our money and also money that can be used for the benefit of the eu.
the commission has already done so. the latest corruption index by transparency international highlights some member states of the european union. the scandinavian countries are in the top bracket, and countries such as germany, austria, belgium, the netherlands and luxembourg are in the top ten, while a considerable number of member states are also in the bottom bracket. bulgaria is the last country to be included in this group, behind hungary, greece, italy and malta. transparency international also shows that corruption has increased in recent years. the commission's failure to publish its corruption report is all the more incomprehensible. after all, there's a lot of money at stake here. estimates vary, but the cost to the eu institutions of corruption amounts to up to €900 billion a year. and here the european semester and the country-specific recommendations alone are not enough to fight corruption decisively. i'm not going to. i therefore call on the commission to lead by example, to resume the publication of the report and to pursue a credible and comprehensive anti-corruption strategy.
mr president, it is important that we do not close our eyes to the situation of the rohingya refugees. we know that our voice is heard, and today’s resolution should contribute to improving the situation of the most vulnerable, the children. we should also be grateful to bangladesh for its support for the refugees. europe has an obligation substantially to increase its financial contributions for humanitarian aid and lifesaving support. we should also be concerned about the political stability of the country. the situation is tense and elections are scheduled for the end of the year. it is important that they will be fair and transparent. human rights violations, enforced disappearances and riots are happening on a daily basis, and the leader of the opposition, khaleda zia, is in prison under questionable conditions. it is in our interest that the forthcoming elections meet democratic standards and guarantee stability in this country.
i have to say, madam president, there is another way of looking at it: the eu cannot continue to exploit the strong defence industry with eu funds. the edidp is to make changes to existing programmes. the 'connecting europe' facility alone is to receive 116 million. i wonder whether it is really necessary to promote high-tech weapons instead of sustainable infrastructure projects. do you really think that a questionable programme would make europe a global player one after the other? what about the common foreign policy? that would strengthen europe! the european defence industrial development programme continues to fail to solve the problems of existing dual structures in the procurement of arms. the aim should also be to reduce the overall cost of procurement in the defence sector through efficient pooling and sharing between eu member states. in this context, it is difficult to explain why the programme would increase defence spending by the european member states. i also believe that there should be no eu funds for arms exports.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the rapporteur's description of early and forced marriage as a violation of human rights and exploitation is not to be dismissed. unfortunately, the demand for ratification of various conventions, including the istanbul convention, is not the solution to this problem. the example of turkey is clear: forced marriages are officially forbidden there, but not islamic religious marriages from the age of 12. twelve-year-old girls are often faced with the choice of being forced into marriage or being rejected by their families. according to unicef, almost one in three turkish women are married before they are eighteen. istanbul-born sociologist necla kelek estimates that there were around 500 forced marriages in berlin in 2017, and also believes that the tradition of forced marriage is becoming commonplace in our country. we must not turn a blind eye to this in the union. because while we are discussing and addressing this problem very well, an islamic parallel world is escalating among us, in which sharia-based injustice against minors is also being lived.
rapporteur. – madam president, as every year, this report gives us an opportunity to present the views of the european parliament both on our relations with the united nations and on the most pressing issues that the un is facing. the global strategy on the us foreign and security policy affirms that the eu will strive for a strong united nations as a bedrock of the multilateral rules-based order. the un brings unique value-added measures to our citizens. nevertheless, let me start with a bleak observation. if winston churchill were alive, what would he have said about the un? it might have sounded like this: ‘the united nations is a weak organisation, but i don’t know a better one.’ in my opinion, which is reflected in the report, this weakness has a structural origin and it has a name: it is called the security council. it is, by the way, also the most powerful body within the united nations. let me illustrate this with an example. in april of this year, the security council held a debate about what turned out to be a chemical attack in syria. the question we all had on our mind was: how will the united nations react to this atrocity? but unfortunately, just as in so many other cases we have observed, the veto of one superpower blocked the resolution condemning the attack, and so each side voted against the other’s proposals. when the united states and russia are at odds, nothing moves and people keep suffering or even dying. this is one of the calamitous consequences of the power of veto. our report therefore urges all those responsible to redouble their efforts to change both the veto right and the composition of the security council. it was enshrined in the charter of the united nations, which was adopted a few months after the end of world war ii. the world of today is significantly different from that of the past 70-odd years, but the un security council has practically remained the same. we actively support the un secretary general in his reform agenda to streamline the peace and security structure, which needs to become more efficient, focused and operational. we also support the secretary general’s efforts in making a substantial change in order to align the un development system with the priorities of agenda 2030 and the sustainable development goals. we must not forget that the eu and its member states were instrumental in shaping the global un 2030 agenda, and the eu remains committed to being a front runner in mobilising all means of implementation and ensuring strong follow-up. we continue to support the women, peace and security agenda. the fact is that when women participate in peace processes, we have seen over and over again that peace agreements last significantly longer. let me now turn to disturbing trends: sexual violence, including rape, is still being used as a weapon and constitutes a war crime. we therefore call for strengthened protection of women and girls in conflict areas. with regard to weapons of mass destruction and the issue of non-proliferation, we support all un actions, as we do when we promote the full implementation of the arms trade treaty (att) and encourage all un member states to sign and ratify it. as for human rights, we are very concerned to observe an ever-tighter space for civil society around the world, and we would emphasise that human rights are indivisible, interdependent and inter-related. when we speak of human rights, this is directly related to our support for the un global compacts on migration and on refugees. we would strongly remind the international community to provide enough financial support for the un high commission on refugees in order to be able fully to protect refugees around the world. i may pick up on a few outstanding issues in my final statement at the end of the debate and i hope that, despite some differences, you will support this important report.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking mr arias cañete, on behalf of the commission, for his unwavering support for this report. in am really grateful for it. this stands in stark contrast to the speech that mr preda gave here. i am deeply disappointed that mr preda left the room immediately after his speech and i also deeply regret that, due to some – as a matter of fact, two – divisive issues, mr preda indicated that he would not support the report. that will mean that he – and how many others we don’t know – will not support the un in its efforts to provide peace. they will not support the fight against sexual violence against women and girls, they will not support standing up for human rights, they will not support the global compact on migration and refugees, and they will not support the necessary reform initiatives of the un secretary—general, to name just a few of the important issues. i would also like to mention at the end that we have to insist that, due to the ever-growing number of tasks for the un system, we demand adequate financing by its member states. we deplore that there is a growing gap between the organisation’s needs and the funding provided for it. last, but certainly not least, we reaffirm our unwavering commitment to the paris climate accord and stress the need for its implementation globally. we must not forget that the effect of climate change will – or already does – lead to severe changes in the lifestyle of the population around the world. colleagues – whoever is left here – let me express my sincere hope that this report, even when we do not agree on everything, still will find the broadest majority possible. let me add that i think that it will be an embarrassment if one of the largest parties here in the house will not support this report. at the very end, i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, and particularly the secretariat of the committee on foreign affairs, without which this report would not have seen the light of day.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not as an austrian, i would like to take this opportunity to welcome mr kurz here, and i would also like to apologize for the fact that the left-wing groups have not even taken over the presidency of the council to show respect for the republic of austria, and that they are engaged in cheap polemics. this is the culmination of a court town which does not even have the collegial courtesy to keep to its speaking time, but simply continues to speak despite repeated urgencies from the president. but they're not. we have a different way of looking at things. austria is a small country with only eight million inhabitants. but i think that austria is an important country because austria is something like a hub, because austria is a hub between the interests of east and west and because austria has always been a meeting place, bringing different interests here into a common whole so that all the participants also had something to gain from it. the current situation in europe and the european union is clearly not the best. the eu is failing to provide solutions in the very broad areas, but on the other hand it produces things with regulations, bureaucracy and standards that many people do not understand. i think we need to deliver solutions in three main areas: the first is the self-concept of the european union. you know that after the shock of the brexit referendum, the european commission has drawn up a white paper here with five different scenarios for a good future for the european union. this begins with the single market scenario and goes on to total community. austria has adopted in its programme for the federal government a definition of scenario number four, i.e. less cooperation, but more efficient. only this house and the institutions of the european union are reluctant to commit themselves to a scenario. often it seems that one person says, "this way", and the other says, "that way". if we succeed in finding a consensus here, we shall also have good chances of successfully developing the european community project. the second is the european union's view of the internal market. the real idea behind this european unification was to bring peace, freedom and prosperity to this continent. many today are filled with quarrels, hatreds, and resentments. this is the wrong way. we must learn to look for commonalities and not always work on fixing more and more on differences. but this can only be achieved by responding to the growing demand from the european population to transfer competences back to their countries, also in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which would also be a key to a successful future. the third point is the external dimension of the european union, where i think it is the wrong way forward - if i look at the two great powers, the united states and russia - to put one president in the closet and consider the other only with sanctions. it would be a good thing if austria, the european union here, would try to show these great powers the respect they deserve. i am convinced that the austrians must bring their presidency of the council, which has an ambitious programme, to a successful conclusion with the appropriate professionalism and neutrality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. welcome to the house of commons of europe, the only directly elected transnational parliament in the world! mr chancellor, you represent not only our common home of austria, but also the strengths and weaknesses of all the member states in the council, the legislator with equal powers to the european parliament. this is a challenging, difficult task which we can only succeed in doing together council and european parliament . you have been in the council since sunday, taking over the captain's role, and you are also expected to play the role of the game-maker - as a diligent provider, a good host, a committed consensus builder and a courageous pacemaker. the outcome of your presidency of the council will be a decisive factor in shaping the starting point for the next elections to the european parliament. what you we cannot do, will not happen before the election. we in the european parliament want the citizens to feel better after these six months that we are the european union. every demand we make of the eu is also a demand we make of ourselves. a more capable european union is in the interest of all of us. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the european parliament, which is the only institution in the world that can do this. the council must give the idea of europe its soul back. the violation or ignorance of european law and our universal values in some member states is the poison for credible cooperation and a functioning eu. unanimity is blocked, blackmailed, delays a credible foreign, security and defence policy, hinders our fight against tax avoidance, tax evasion, tax havens and corruption, weakens european democracy, transparency and all parliaments. let us take a step forward towards abolishing unanimity! let's work out some concrete solutions, some results. it is in the interests of all of us that the council should be able to act. have a good day. we look forward to working with you.
i have to say, madam president, i have to go. welcome to the european parliament, where we are working on solutions that do not work at national level, where eight groups are sitting - seven of them are working together on a european level, with one we cannot work constructively together here because it is far right, because it is anti-semitic, because it is anti-european. and you are putting this parliament in a difficult situation with a coalition partner who is in this group and who now occupies an important position in the council presidency. for the first time, a far-right party will hold the presidency of the council and negotiate with the european parliament in the trilogues. this is a european problem. but the problem is not the far right, the problem is when the conservatives adopt this policy and carry it forward. we have big european issues: we have climate change, which we cannot solve nationally; we have unemployment, which we cannot solve nationally; we have tax evasion by large corporations, which we cannot solve nationally. all these are european issues which we can tackle together. all i hear from you is "boundaries, boundaries, boundaries, boundaries, boundaries". this is a very narrow horizon, a very narrow approach to the subject of europe. i hope you'll do better in the next six months. in the first two days of this council presidency, 250 people have drowned in the mediterranean, and by the end of it there will be thousands. i hope you'll take as little of this as possible to your conscience.
i have to say, madam president, the european parliament is not a political body. the austrian presidency of the council is held one year before the next elections and many legislative projects are still to be completed. it is in the interests of all of us that this should work, and we austrian social democrats will of course support you in this. you have set your presidency under the motto 'for a europe that protects'. that's right! many people in our europe feel insecure. they have fears about the future, and they feel abandoned. if we want to protect people, we must not make them insecure for political reasons, but we must show that we can solve their problems, such as the all-important issue of migration. the council has been blocking parliament's proposals for months. you can negotiate with us on equal terms, mr. chancellor. our proposals are balanced and offer concrete solutions. with each other, not against each other! yeah, we need more together. for us, this means strengthening the social pillar. we do not want the european house to collapse. the only europe that protects is a social europe. the protection of the people also means strengthening the foundations of the rule of law. not only that, but especially in hungary and poland, something terrible is happening. help us to turn these countries around. the austrian presidency of the council could go down in history if you are prepared to do so.
i have to say, madam president, i hope that the presidency of the council of the european union will be a success. it's too much. a europe that protects our way of life, our quality of life. it is a europe of social protection. it is about wages, it is about fighting tax dumping and wage dumping. there are 200 files on the table. it's about the digital tax, the corporate tax. there's so much more going on that you didn't mention. it is a european labour market authority which will check whether social security contributions are not paid. that means that there is a lot on the table that is important to us as european citizens. and it's important that you don't just do a pr show, but that you actually do this bone-dead work when it comes to going through the files piece by piece. it is also about the fact that there is no contradiction with what is happening domestically, for example in austria, if you are advocating the 60-hour week and the 12-hour day and we on the other hand want to achieve precisely these improvements in the quality of life in work-life balance. there are so many good ideas on the table. continue to do so, and do so in a constructive way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think there is no one who would not wish you luck or better fortune in the austrian presidency. the word migration has been used many times today, and it seems to be attached to you wherever you go. but i also see a contradiction in your argument. you practically won the election by claiming you closed the balkan route. and yet you are now moving inland, inland, warning of a wave of refugees that a) does not exist - as the latest figures show - and that b) cannot possibly cross the closed route, or c) is not closed at all. if you, mr chancellor, want the applause of the whole house, then it would be good not to frighten the population for the next six months, but to do everything so that people do not have to flee first. start by working out a marshall plan for africa. this is how you can stop a wave of refugees in the long term, and it's also how you can make a proud entry in the history books.
i have to say, madam president, good afternoon, mr chancellor. migration is a wonderful domestic policy tool. we've all seen that before. but our social peace in austria and our prosperity are threatened above all by climate change. these are the challenges. they are threatened by tax evasion by the super-rich and many multinational corporations. they threaten our social peace and our prosperity. i have a question for you: the common agricultural policy for next year is being discussed here in the house and also under your presidency of the council. will you work to protect european farmers from dumping on the world market? will you be committed to financing european taxpayers' money for the european production of healthy food for our citizens? can we expect that of you? and can we expect you to be committed to a climate-friendly and environmentally friendly agriculture that leaves something of our nature for our next generation? please answer this.
in writing. we have waited too long for a workable outcome from the eu council! the blockade of some hardliners must finally be lifted so that we can sit down at the negotiating table. we need a common and sensible solution from the eu council. instead of relying on the decision of the eu parliament, however, the council is making ill-considered demands that even violate eu and international law ! our proposals, that is to say the european parliament's proposals for the reform of the dublin regulation, have been on the table since last year. we cannot stress this enough: we must combat the causes of displacement, conclude a future pact with africa, provide legal entry options and a pan-european, reasonable and above all humane solution!
in writing. the council's findings are not real results. the european parliament has already made several sensible and balanced proposals to coordinate the asylum reform at european level, but the council is not interested in any solution and is blocking any progress. the member states must abandon their blockade and pave the way for a pragmatic solution in accordance with human rights. the first decisions are already wavering, because each country interprets them as it sees fit. we are seeing again that some member states are not interested in a european solution, but are using the issue of refugees merely for cheap propaganda. the victims are people fleeing war and persecution, and in the last few days alone hundreds have died in the mediterranean. but the ngos that are saving people from drowning in the mediterranean are also now being targeted. it is cynical to make scapegoats of these people and the work of many ngos. they are saving lives that have been put at risk by years of inaction by the member states. helping people is not a crime.
the commission has already done so. truck drivers deserve decent working conditions. truck drivers cannot and should not be second-class workers. i have had countless conversations with truck drivers myself in the last few weeks, been on the road with them, and what do you see? driving for 15 hours straight, on amphetamines to keep them going, that's a lot of them. they sleep in the truck for months, and then they're often fed with hourly wages of around three euros. is that fair, is that fair? i'm not going to. i do not expect this in a progressive, social europe. we can't let that happen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive on posting of workers applies to lorry drivers from day one, as we have voted in the employment committee. no loopholes, please. i would like to address a special appeal to those colleagues in the european people's party: even ten-day exceptions are inhuman, not decent. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to invite you to take part in a control in austria, and i must tell you that what is prescribed is one thing, but how it is actually practiced is another. we must not be too blind, we must also design this whole package in such a way that it is realistically implemented, and these violations are unfortunately the rule and not the exception.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have a new ebola outbreak in africa, and the european union has managed to help better than in the past. it has been stressed many times, and we must stress it again: we need a europe that is strong on the outside and can help and can assert itself and is free on the inside and gives priority to freedom. i am therefore pleased that we were able to negotiate the disaster prevention package in parliament under the leadership of commissioner stylianides only recently, in such a way that we are strong and able to help from the outside and free from the inside and give preference to voluntary disaster prevention structures. but we must also talk to the congo and not just about the congo. we need to talk to africa, not just about africa. today, at the start of the austrian presidency, commission president jean-claude juncker has positively emphasised that sebastian kurz, like all the strong reform forces in europe, is looking for cooperation with africa. emmanuel macron is doing the same, and we need that. africa is growing. in 2050, there will be two billion people, one billion people in africa today. it is important to help our future, and the best way to do that is through economic cooperation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. we are trying to make sure that the transition from self-employment to being the first employee in an sme is as upscale as possible and that new jobs are created as quickly as possible and good wages can be paid. we do not want barriers to the top, it must be promoted and de-bureaucratized wherever worldwide success is in sight for our companies. i have just looked at the pilot projects and the preparatory measures and unfortunately there has not been much support from the commission. we have submitted the female business angels, for example. of course, it is extremely important for young women and for young businesses to exchange ideas among themselves on how to succeed, or we have submitted the capacity building for sme organisations. yes, small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed, they don't have ngos here in brussels, and if they do, they are not very strong. we also submitted the wto dispute settlement - this is where smes could receive support. commissioner, i would ask you to support these projects. this is really a basis for new employment in europe, and you are a guarantee that we can achieve this together.
mr president, i wish to thank the prime minister for coming here. i have great respect for the polish nation. without poland, europe would be a torso. i appreciate your contribution to bringing down the communist dictatorship without bloodshed. the roundtable is a polish invention. poland’s constitution was a paramount example of the rule of law, and also, with reference to my country, austria, we were able to learn from the developments in poland after 1989. this is the reason why i’m concerned at the developments in poland. what is happening today at the polish supreme court and what you said in an interview with deutsche welle, when you assert, i quote: ‘the law is not the most important thing. human life, security is more important.’ i would ask whether you really said that, and whether you actually want the rule of law in your country or not?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. with a capital buffer of 15 billion euros and a ten-year extension, the euro finance ministers have released greece from the third bailout package. in total, €274 billion in aid has flowed to greece since 2010. in return, painful reforms had to be implemented - we heard this several times today - to get the country back on track for growth. a primary surplus of 3.5% and economic growth of 1.8% cannot, however, conceal the fact that unemployment in greece is still above 20%, the brain drain from young people is continuing and the national debt is at a staggering 178%. the tax burden in greece is now as high as in scandinavia, while public services are at the balkan level and incomes are lower than in emerging countries. massive cuts in income and pensions, combined with tax increases, have weakened the small and mediumsized enterprises dramatically. against this background, there is a risk that the tsipras government will withdraw reforms once the austerity regime ends and the government can refinance itself on the capital market after 20 august. however, this will lead to higher spreads and also to more expensive financing, which will further weaken competitiveness. and i would like to point out again that the latest global competitiveness report says that athens is currently in the last place in the categories of financial market development, labour market efficiency and macroeconomic environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is a saying by catherine of siena, who said: "it is not the beginning that is rewarded, but only the endurance". we are faced with a new beginning every day, and yet we can say that we have persevered. i would therefore like to begin by thanking and congratulating the citizens of greece and the politicians who have been willing to work with the eu in a determined way towards renewal. no other country in the oecd has implemented so many reforms in such a short time. it's not a given. the fact that all 88 agreed ex ante reforms and austerity measures were implemented in the last review, that economic growth has increased from minus 5.5% to 1.4%, that the general government budget is stabilising from a deficit of minus 11.2% to a surplus of around 1%, that the unemployment rate is falling significantly and that the reform of the tax system is progressing, these were efforts; they are not taken for granted. and we in the european union have learned a great deal and had much to learn. but we are not done with the lessons of these experiences. in my joint report with pervenche berès on the causes and effects of the crises, many points have not yet been dealt with. the joint report with mr liem hoang ngoc on the troika has many of the consequences that have not yet been worked out. and we must make it clear that all the measures we have adopted intergovernmentally as emergency solutions must be transposed into community law. this includes an insolvency regime for euro area countries.
i have to say, madam president, in march 2014, this house, by a large majority, made it possible to repeal the safe harbor agreement. the european court of justice finally struck it down on october 6, 2015 a great success, without which we would not have privacy shield. but we cannot rely on that either, because even now the personal data of european citizens in the united states is not adequately protected. this is what the data scandals around cambridge analytica and facebook have just shown. both companies were certified, and yet the transfer of personal data to third parties was and is possible without any problems. with the reintroduction of section 702 of the fisa act and the introduction of the cloud act, it is clear that the american partner has no real interest in a real improvement of the situation. everything that happens is half-hearted, abuse is not isolated but systematic, and both the european data protection supervisor and the article 29 working party have found that privacy shield does not ensure the necessary protection of private data as provided for in european data protection law and the eu charter. we must not be frivolous, especially at a time when the trump administration believes it must wage a trade war against europe. the privacy shield must be suspended if the us does not meet its commitments by september.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. solidarity is good, volunteering is much better, and the whole thing is best in a corps. volunteering can be an educational as well as an orientation period for young people. at the same time, however, volunteers should not be allowed to simply leave if they no longer like the task. finally, further character development is desirable. that's what happens when you have to fight your way through difficult situations. another aspect is the promotion of vocational training. here too, there is a distinction to be made. eu-subsidised wages must not lead to volunteers acting as free replacements for regular labour. at the beginning of this year the commission had the curious idea of concluding a contract with uefa, which provided for the volunteers of the solidarity corps to provide free help for the forthcoming european football championship. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. equivalence is a useful tool to promote international regulatory convergence, which can lead to more competition in the eu internal market on a level playing field, prevent regulatory arbitrage, protect consumers and investors, preserve the eu's financial stability and ensure coherence within the internal market. equivalence also serves as a tool to ensure fair and equal regulation and supervision between eu financial institutions and third country financial institutions. equivalence also works on the basis of reciprocity: other legal systems grant eu market participants access to their financial markets. this gives european companies the certainty that european rules and conditions apply in the third countries in which they carry out their economic activities and provide their financial goods and services. since the financial crisis, more than 40 new eu financial regulations have been adopted. of these 40 new acts, 15 contain third country clauses which allow the commission, on behalf of the eu, to decide unilaterally whether the regulatory provisions in foreign legal systems can be considered equivalent. unfortunately, the commission has a wide margin of discretion in adopting equivalence decisions, far removed from any democratic control. this report calls for greater transparency and democratic control. this will allow for equivalence decisions that are more focused on the priorities of parliament and the citizens, and this is welcome.
mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our debate today will be in the history books. for the first time we are faced with the decision to make clear to a member state, by initiating an article 7 procedure, that it is not a cavalier offence to significantly and systematically ignore the values of the union as set out in article 2. we must take a stand on the survival of the union when its foundations are being undermined. there can be no consideration. it is not therefore against a member state, but we are fighting for our common interests. and above all, it is not appropriate to say that the resolution is intended to punish a member state, as the hungarian foreign minister has repeatedly claimed. yes, he is constantly insulting the members of this house by denouncing the report as a collection of proven lies. this is not the language of a diplomat, and certainly not of anyone who should be interested in a factual and serious exchange of views. and i would have expected a prime minister to make that clear to his foreign secretary. first of all, it is an accusation that cannot be justified by the facts. we have made a good effort to base our judgment on verifiable facts and the rapporteur has been careful to do so, sine ira et studio. the report's conclusion is clear and the overwhelming majority of the libe committee has therefore recommended the application of article 7. four other committees have joined this demand. the decision is now up to the plenary and a clear decision is needed. there's no point in putting it off any longer. problems do not resolve themselves, let alone be left unaddressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. eastern europe has had this bitter experience before. at that time, it was euphemistically called popular democracy. without the liberal principles of tolerance for dissent, respect for political minorities, freedom of expression, separation of powers, judicial independence and a vibrant civil society, democracy cannot work. we have a historic signal on our hands tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council president and the prime minister! the eu is a community of law and values. it is therefore absolutely indisputable that the rule of law and the eu charter of fundamental rights are the basis of all political action. values and law are not partisan or tactical. and so i say to you: the era of liberal democracy is not over, as you said in may. liberal democracy is fundamentally different from authoritarian democracy. european democracy respects the fundamental rights of the eu, european law, is mutually supportive, takes account of each other, respects all people and protects minorities, protects freedom and independence. we have a lot of questions about politics in hungary - about the statements against liberal democracy, about the incitement of anti-semitism by the poster campaign against mr soros, about the eu-bashing by the text in the referendum, about the ngo law, about nepotism and corruption, about the threat to the private university, about the restriction of media freedom. mr orbán, it is in your and our common interest that the orderly, structured, rule-of-law dialogue under article 7 be launched. it is about the credibility of the union. it's about your credibility. it's about the credibility of the quality of our cooperation. populism, nationalism and the idea of europe are mutually exclusive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to apologize in advance - i apologize - for the fact that a sinister alliance of the left, the communists, the socialists, the greens and, unfortunately, the european people's party, has presented you, mr prime minister orbán, as a breaker of the treaty, treating you as if you were a political criminal. that is not the case at all! prime minister orbán is one of the heroes of europe, who, when the wave of migration began in 2015, was the only one to respect the european regulatory framework. please respect that and stop your careless attacks! and, mr prime minister orbán, the dishonesty of this side of parliament is shown by the example of romania, where a month ago some 100 000 people took to the streets to protest against the ruling social democrats and socialists for corruption, 500 were beaten and you all put your heads in the sand as if it were nothing! it is not a question of human rights, liberal democracy, european values being valid anywhere. i'm not going to. the socialists rule there, we bury our heads in the sand. it's indecent what you're doing here. mr president, you have friends in europe, in italy, in parts of austria, in any case, you have friends in poland, in many other parts of europe: please continue on your way! you're a beacon of hope for many people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it was the right decision to decide in july to debate the copyright directive again in plenary. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the single market, in particular by providing for the adoption of a new directive on the free movement of goods. my group has been trying to reach a compromise until the very end. we welcome important progress for workers in articles 14 to 16. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. we would have liked to have been prepared for that. the s&d group is particularly concerned with finding a balance between the legitimate interests of artists and consumers, and in doing so strengthening the potential for development of the european creative industries. the protection of fundamental rights is essential to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. it's about time copyright law made its way into the 21st century. online platforms must pay when they use the works of european artists for their advertising revenue. but we must not give them more power by letting them have access to the uploads of internet users. i'm all about fair participation of artists, creatives and legal certainty for all users. and we social democrats have already made a lot of contributions and achieved a lot in the legal affairs committee. artists must be paid fairly and appropriately across the eu for the online use of their works and must be obliged to be informed by online platforms where, how and, above all, for how much their art is being marketed. it's possible to pay creators and artists fairly and to have an open internet without making users responsible for what they upload.
mr president, the honourable member is right. what are we talking about today? artificial intelligence is so advanced that there is a danger that it could slip past us. this will lead to job losses in industry, which is bad enough, but in the area of autonomous weapons, it is literally a matter of life and death. already, systems are on the market that can target, track, and even destroy incoming missiles without human intervention. but these weapons were programmed by humans. but now we're back to work. the next step is to use algorithms, where humans are completely irrelevant. now the autonomous drone alone decides whether to destroy a target it has identified. we must therefore urgently establish appropriate regulations to prevent these systems from being used uncontrolled. the european union must also insist internationally that the moral and ethical responsibility for the use of any weapon should always rest with the individual.
i have to say, madam president, i always find it amusing how the first row here praises each other. you're still not used to opposition. but, my dear colleagues, do not be afraid! i can tell you one thing: we all love europe. i'm not arguing that. but what have we heard today? we haven't heard much from jean-claude juncker. he mentioned the word solidarity six times in all. but solidarity cannot be a one-way street. but that is what we saw here in the house yesterday, when there was the debate with hungary. a minority of the left here in the house has dragged the largest group here in the house through the plenary by the nose ring. and what happened to the white paper? it was presented in march 2017, and we haven't heard from it since. i can't go down a path that i don't know yet is going to go in which direction. it is particularly remarkable because juncker knows that this migration crisis is changing europe for the long term, and we are only in the first phase. that is why he is late with his proposals. this hesitation for years has not improved the crisis in any way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what a difference! let us compare yesterday's speech on the rule of law, democracy and fundamental values with the speech by jean-claude juncker: one side ignores the idea of europe and divides. the other makes the idea of europe a programme, a response to the challenges of our time - european and global - and unites them. the commission is also proposing to extend the but we also see in the comparison what blocks, attitudes, ignorance we still have to overcome to be able to fully implement juncker's legacy. let us start with the votes today. the european democracy is more than the sum of national democracies and a rejection of authoritarian democracy. the eu must establish european sovereignty and become the continent's effective, efficient and credible spokesman in the world. i therefore support the analysis, any objective, any proposal without any reservations. let us eliminate unanimity in the legislative process. let us make all decisions a matter of parliamentarism! let us speed up the process so that we can take a concrete step forward on each issue before the elections. the political will to unite can do a lot. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you can't answer all the questions in one minute. but the fact is that the rule of law, that adherence to values and the fulfillment of goals can also bring us more peace, freedom, prosperity and security. the budget negotiations will be difficult because the demands on the eu will require more money, more solidarity than the current budget proposal. and the discrepancy between the commission, the council and parliament is great. everyone must step over his or her shadow here so that the juncker programme can be implemented.
i have to say, madam president, i am speaking to president juncker. once again, you have delivered a good speech - as you have so often done - which is forward-looking, pro-european and full of good intentions. but unfortunately, there is often a gap between the promise and the reality. in 2015, you put forward the prospect of a functioning european border protection system here in this place. three years later we are seeing that we have not made progress and that the relocation of refugees has also been slow to take place - not only because of the blocking by individual member states but also because much has been done only half-heartedly and hesitantly at commission level. recently, we have been receiving information that the refugee programs of the international community are chronically underfunded, that schools have to be closed. you have made some interesting suggestions today, which we are happy to discuss. but i remind you: it's also about doing the homework and getting enough funding for the capacity in our neighborhood. otherwise, the same thing will happen in 2015.
in writing. it is time to use the remaining months to deliver on the promises made to the europeans! we must seize the next few months and all the eu institutions must make a turbo-boost. citizens expect more from the eu than a debate on how the clock should tick. there are still 250 days to negotiate urgent legislation. we must now make a breakthrough on the digital tax. big internet companies like facebook, google & co. finally have to pay their taxes! the ball is in the court of the member states. i support the proposal to abolish unanimity in the council on taxation issues 100 per cent. we see that nothing else is moving towards tax justice, not even under the austrian presidency. they prefer to make politics for the corporations. unfortunately, the social europe was forgotten in today's speech. europe will be social or it will not be. the aim of the child guarantee is to ensure that every child in europe has access to free healthcare, education and care, decent housing and adequate nutrition. this is a clear call for action by the european union! the commission is not alone. but we social democrats are fighting for a europe to fall in love with!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today's debate on the future of pensions concerns all citizens of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i share this attitude in the division of powers. the future of pensions, as designed, should be based on three pillars. the first pillar of statutory pensions should continue to be given priority, as in austria, where stable pension provision is largely provided by statutory pensions. of course, reforms are imperative here. generational justice means that demographic change cannot be carried on the backs of young people. and if we're already spending an average of 20 years in retirement, then it's clear that we need to work longer. the second pillar - which we have mostly settled by means of company pensions - must be made as attractive as possible and taken for granted. we must strengthen them so that they can maintain their standard of living in old age. and the third pillar, private pension schemes, will soon have a really attractive new feature, especially for young people, with the pepp, the pan-european pension product, proposed by the commission, which for the first time in this form offers a capital guarantee for pension savings in the standard version, which will include a guarantee for the payment of the amounts deposited, regardless of the development of the capital markets. i think that's an attractive path. i therefore believe that all the myths that are put in this room must be relegated to the realm of lies. the future of our youth and our social systems is at stake and we are well prepared.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a strong first pillar is not a utopia. a strong system of levies is possible. it is not for nothing that we see this when we look at the ways in which pensioners have fared better in the financial crisis. these are the countries that trust a system of levies simply because it is more stable. what does that mean for the boys? for young people, this means pushing for a strong system of contributions, because this is the best guarantee for the future: a strong system of contributions and an active, inclusive labour market strategy, a high level of employment - above all employment - is particularly important here. the main purpose of pensions is to ensure a high standard of living in old age. you should be able to live well on your pension. and i can only say this about my country, austria, which trusts the levy system, that it is doing better here than in other european countries. so the levy system is a system for the future.
i have to say, madam president, this debate was very important today and i hope it will not be just this one. there is hardly any area of society that moves people more. many people in europe are afraid of growing old because they do not know whether they will end their lives in poverty. there are no more myths, misinformation, half-truths anywhere, and that is why we need an objective debate. the commission could provide a framework for this. we should also have a political discussion on how to best protect social risks. this is not always done by privatisation, on the contrary. here too, the european level could provide a good basis for comparing best practice. but above all, political action is needed. the social security sector should be subject to special rules, as provided for in the lisbon treaty. this requires a new approach, and public services must not be placed at a disadvantage to the private sector.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the budget is always a negotiation. it is important to focus on setting common goals and preparing a budget that invests in europe, where growth and jobs are generated. so it's important that we see that not only in the commission budget, but also in the other institutions - we have nine other institutions besides the commission, which is about a four billion euro area - there's a lot of performance. if i look at the different rates of increase, i see that data protection, for example, and we just passed the general data protection regulation, is at the top with plus 16%. that is why i am also supporting the council's cuts of eur 100 000. it is not much, but it is a symbol that very large increases must also be subject to a reduction. i am concerned about the financing of the european court of justice. we have talked about brexit, and with brexit it is clear that disputes arising from article 50 must also be dealt with by the court quickly and efficiently. the 16 posts here are therefore a basic prerequisite for us to decide whether the withdrawal agreement or hard brexit can also be resolved by the courts and not by other institutions. we have finally achieved this year the 5% reduction in staff, and parliament has also reduced its posts by 5%. of course, it's already noticeable in the house. but there is also a very large difference between the european budget and the national budget: the european level ultimately has less than 1% of gdp at its disposal, the national states 30 to 50%. we are negotiating behind the comma now, so i hope we can come to an agreement here soon and quickly and efficiently.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, let me first thank our rapporteur, cornelia ernst, for her excellent work. it was really a pleasure to work with you and i think the results speak for themselves. regulation 45/2001 is part of the historic reform of the european data protection landscape, which aims to remove legal fragmentation by harmonising common rules in principles between the eu agencies that carry out law enforcement tasks. from the start, the objective of the european parliament was to end the so-called stand-alone regimes such as eurojust, europol and the european public prosecutor’s office. the final interinstitutional agreement was in the end a victory for the european parliament, because for the first time we have ensured that the stand-alone regimes cannot deviate from the principles of this regulation. the harmonised rules in the regulation will, furthermore, prevent data protection loopholes in the cooperation between the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. finally, i call on the commission to evaluate in the future whether to extend the scope of the regulation and to include all eu law enforcement agencies in order to increase the legal consistency of data transfers between eu bodies and agencies, increase mutual trust and data exchange between data agencies, as well as legal certainty for data subjects.
i have to say, madam president, the adoption of the general data protection regulation was an important achievement of european legislation. it is exemplary in that it guarantees a uniform framework for the union as a whole, protects the privacy of users and safeguards fundamental rights. it is self-evident that these rules should also be binding on the institutions of the union. data protection and the right to privacy are fundamental rights which must apply to all areas. it's high time we did. the legislative report presented by cornelia ernst resolves all the relevant issues in this context. the 2001 rules are being adapted to the general data protection regulation and the directive on the protection of personal data in the electronic communications sector. it is therefore important that this legislative project be finalised quickly on the basis of the parliament's decision and not watered down. i would also like to emphasize the role of the european data protection supervisor. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has made important improvements to the commission's proposal, particularly as regards the scope of the institutions. eurojust, europol and the european public prosecutor's office - the institutions central to the common area of freedom, security and justice - are now also covered. europol and eurojust are now subject to the same rules as the police authorities in the member states. it's a pity that this has taken so long. in fact, this obvious and self-evident project should and could have been implemented quickly and speedily. once again, it was short-sighted interests of individual member states that made swift implementation impossible. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for not letting up and for persisting in this case.
a writer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to draw your attention to the position of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on the proposal for a resolution on the implementation of the circular economy package on options for regulating the interface between chemical product and waste legislation. the aim of this initiative is to minimise the presence of substances of concern in recycled products and to strengthen the market for secondary raw materials. these are raw materials that are obtained by recycling from discarded material. on 16 january this year, the commission adopted new measures to implement the action plan on the circular economy. the commission communication analysed the four main problems identified at the interface between chemical product and waste legislation and analysed the extent to which they hinder the development of a circular economy. the four problems mentioned, which i will address later, are firstly the lack of information on substances of concern in products and waste, the presence of substances of concern in recycled materials, uncertainties about the criteria to be met to determine whether materials are not considered waste, and fourthly difficulties in applying the european union's methods for classifying waste and the consequences for the recyclability of materials. it is important to fill this gap and to counter this problem in the context of the circular economy. the european parliament therefore sent a number of questions for oral answer to the european commission and the council and drew up a motion for a resolution. the motion for a resolution generally covers the following subjects: the committee on the environment welcomes the communication from the european commission and the related working document from the commission services. however, it is expected that rapid action will be taken to address this interface problem. the primary objective of the european commission should be to prevent dangerous chemicals from entering the material cycle and to achieve full coherence between the implementing rules in waste and chemicals legislation. a true circular economy requires that products are designed to last, to be repaired and reused. and of course, the products must also be developed with minimal use of substances of concern. the implementation of the chemicals product and waste act can be a challenge, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. special attention should be paid to small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission analysed the four issues raised in more detail, firstly, that substances of concern are those identified as substances of concern under the reach regulation and substances banned under the stockholm convention. all substances of concern should be traced as quickly as possible and information on those substances, including their composition and concentration, should be fully available to all actors in the supply chain, recyclers and the public. the second problem identified is the management of the presence of substances of concern in recycled materials. the main issue is the possibility of recycling materials containing substances of concern. this should only be considered if there are no materials free of substances of concern that can be used as substitutes. more than 80% of the environmental impact of a product should be determined at the design stage. the ecodesign directive and other product-specific legislation should be used to establish requirements for the substitution of substances of concern. it is important to create a level playing field between eu-made and imported articles. eu-produced products must not be disadvantaged by imported products. the third problem identified is the uncertainty about the criteria for not considering materials as waste. clear rules are needed to determine the conditions under which something ceases to be covered by the waste legislation and robust criteria for the end of waste are also needed. these clear eu rules must be designed to be applicable to smes. the house calls on the european commission and member states to cooperate on the criteria for the end of waste. the fourth problem identified is the difficulties in applying the european union's methods for the classification of waste and the consequences for the recyclability of materials. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a welcome one. i would like to conclude by saying that there is great tension in the committee as regards the commission's and the council's replies to the oral questions, so that we can then enter into a political discourse together, guided from the centre.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, honourable members of this house, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to say that i am delighted that we have succeeded in having an opportunity today to discuss the report on the european action plan on antimicrobial resistance, or amr, in the context of the concept of 'one health'. because it is about nothing less than one of the greatest threats we face today. president juncker, in his state of the union address this morning, said that only a strong and united europe could protect its citizens from threats from within and without - from terrorism to climate change, as he put it. i would like to add and emphasize that this common europe, this common effort, is also needed to protect people from growing health threats - from amr, for example. i would also like to say briefly that i regret that in his speech today president juncker did not address the health issue, which is of such enormous importance for people and for the economy. in contrast to his 2017 speech, where he welcomed the importance of high vaccination coverage and the need for all people in the eu to have access to vaccines. vaccination is also an important topic in the context of amr. why is this fight against amr, antimicrobial resistance, so important? because, largely unheard of in the media, and largely unheard of in the general public, nearly 500 people die every week in the european union from infections caused by multidrug-resistant germs. this is the same number as the number of people killed in road accidents in the european union each year. and there will be many more if we do not act with commitment, consistency and seriousness. we're threatening to go back to a pre-antibiotic, prepenicillin era, where a urinary tract infection could be a death sentence, where surgeries, transplants, chemotherapy could mean that patients would be at a much higher risk than they are today. lack of knowledge of the mode of action of antibiotics, their misuse, abuse, overuse in both human and veterinary medicine , lack of hygiene, improper disposal are among the main causes of amr. the european parliament has addressed this problem on several occasions in the past and many steps have been taken. i hope that commissioner andriukaitis will use his speaking time to go into these in greater detail. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to him for his commitment and his commitment. i would also like to thank the heads of the european agencies working in this field for their good and fruitful cooperation. the report is intended to support and, above all, to promote the work of the commission and the member states. we have made a number of general proposals, but in particular a number of specific suggestions and demands. to prevent, in addition to all the human suffering from disease and premature deaths, the economic damage caused by antibiotic-resistant infections in 2050 from matching the financial impact of the 2008 economic crisis. the aim of the report is to promote awareness-raising, health literacy, better education and training for all health workers, and to highlight the development and use of rapid diagnostic tests, new and alternative medicines and treatments, the importance of prevention and immunisation, new business models as incentives for industry, universal access and the availability of antibiotics, just some of the areas of action that we have addressed in our report. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have worked so constructively and intensively here, the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on the environment and the members of the committees that have been consulted. the numerous proposals for amendments and supplements have helped us to put to the vote tomorrow a report which not only reflects the concept of 'one health' but also the concept of 'one strong voice', as the report was adopted unanimously by the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment. i look forward to our discussions today and hope that the report will also receive strong support in the vote tomorrow, so that we can take effective, strong measures to counter the threat to the health of europeans, in addition to what president juncker has said. a europe that protects puts the protection of the health of its citizens at the top of its agenda.
i have to say, madam president, multiresistant germs, which means germs that are resistant to some or all antibiotics -- we heard that, 25,000 deaths every year. i would like to thank mrs kadenbach in particular for making it clear in her report that one of the main causes of multidrug-resistant germs is the stock farming industry, and in particular the pig industry. reserve antibiotics, antibiotics that are reserved for human use only, are the order of the day here. it must be possible to allow certain antibiotics for human use only and to ban them from animal feeding. at the same time, we must be aware that these germs are being spread across the european union by means of animal transport - live animal transport. i have seen trucks where the manure has leaked out the back of the truck and spread these germs all over europe. it is imperative that transport of animals from affected areas be stopped immediately to prevent the further spread of this life-threatening germ. i ask the commissioner to take immediate action here.
the rapporteur. the commission is not once again, i would like to thank the commissioner and all the members who have made it clear here today that we are dealing with a subject which is a real threat to the health of europeans, and in this context also a threat to the economic location of europe. i am sorry that the representative of the austrian presidency did not hear this part of the debate today. it is not just the plastic strategy that we must stand together as a parliament, but also health issues. a europe that protects must be a europe that puts the health of its citizens at the top of the agenda.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. who among us has not been asked the question: what are you doing for me? and with the central digital gateway, we are making a major contribution to making life easier for every eu citizen. i'm glad you did. whether i am looking for information on employment opportunities in an eu country, applying for recognition of my professional qualifications from another member state, looking for information on setting up a business or recruiting staff, all eu countries now make this information available to all eu citizens through the central digital access portal. but not only that. we are going further and digitising a number of public administration procedures, which are now available to all eu citizens through the central digital gateway. from applying for a birth certificate, registration form, applying for a study grant, registering a business, registering an employee with the health and pension insurance or with the income and corporate tax return, all the formalities for this and much more will be a thing of the past and will be available to all citizens digitally. i therefore thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs in particular, as well as the bulgarian presidency, for their excellent cooperation. it has been a great pleasure to be able to work on this project and i hope that many citizens will benefit from this project in their daily lives and feel that only the european union as a whole has been able to make it possible to create these cross-border facilities.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank our colleague pavel poc for his excellent work, from which it can be seen that he is an expert in this field. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's agricultural policy is not affected by the current crisis. in addition, this risk-based approach has recently been extended by the precautionary principle. in view of the fact that we want to promote sustainable agriculture within the union and to support it accordingly in legislation and in financial terms, i believe it is important to create the appropriate framework conditions also in the area of authorization and use of plant protection products. we pride ourselves on having the best and safest authorisation procedure, which has been repeatedly confirmed in the work of the special committee on the eu pesticide authorisation procedure, but which nevertheless shows massive weaknesses: for example, the numerous derogations granted in the member states under article 53 of this regulation are extremely worrying. this misuse of a plant protection product which should be used only in emergency situations to place it on the market allows the rapid authorization of products on our markets or the re-use of products already banned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not compromised.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i disagree with mrs mcintyre here. we have different perceptions. in the committee on pesticides we have recognised that the scientific methods used by efsa are in some cases 15 years old. we found that there is virtually no research on the interaction of pesticides. if you buy a conventional apple and eat it, or drink a glass of wine, you have five to twenty different pesticides in it. there's no research on it, really. there are new toxicological methods which urgently need to be introduced into our licensing procedures. we are destroying our environment, we are destroying our landscape, we are destroying our biodiversity with this form of pesticide agriculture, which we are promoting here in parliament today. even the european hunting associations support us greens in our fight for the greening of agriculture, because they are also the people who are out in the countryside and who see: there are no more birds, there are no more insects, there are no more rabbits. they see that, and they're on our side now. i agree with mrs delahaye that the same standards must apply to products imported into the european union as to us farmers. because it's not like we have this competitive disadvantage. we need a new agricultural policy, we need a greening of agricultural policy. and i also call on the conservatives to finally recognize what the imperative of the times is here.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. there is an agriculture that is oriented towards nature and an agriculture that is not. and i'm not saying that all conventional farming is not intelligent and not oriented towards nature. there are also very good farms there. you are quite right: organic farming also uses a less toxic product in case of emergency. i don't think we should split this up. i am not going to pretend that everything is fine in conventional agriculture, especially in agro-industrial conventional agriculture.
a writer. the commission is not cambodia's recent history has been marked by incredible crimes. the khmer rouge murdered millions of people, and the shadows of that past are still everywhere. for a long time, it seemed that the country could return to a democratic normality. the rapid economic development has led to more and more people becoming politically active, and these changes have unsettled the hun sen regime. in recent years, the crackdown on ngos and opposition politicians has increased. they were arrested on trumped-up charges and forced into exile. i am very glad that some of you can follow our debate today. it was right that the eu did not allow itself to be used to legitimize the rigged elections and refused to participate in the election observation. that was a crystal clear sign. europe must now take additional action - without compromise, swiftly and with deadlines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we owe it to the people of this troubled country.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to tell you. the commission is grateful for this proposal. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. if we look more closely at article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which has already been mentioned today, paragraph 4c clearly states that in the matter of the authorization of medicinal products, in the matter of medical devices, the highest safety, quality and efficacy of these products is a task for the european parliament, the council and the commission together with the member states. the draft also clearly refers to the area of health technology assessment which is limited to clinical evaluation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this will continue to be the responsibility of the member states. what we are concerned with is making new, innovative products in the medical and medical device sector available as quickly as possible to the patients, to the consumers who are entitled to them. the current situation is that some products are authorised more quickly in some member states. in other words, we are dealing with a rejection of the internal market in two respects, namely in economic terms, but also in terms of the safety and health of patients in europe. i would therefore like to thank my colleague, mrs cabezón ruiz, and her shadow rapporteur for this very balanced report, which clearly identifies the areas which will continue to be the responsibility of the member states and the areas which we must tackle at european level. we need this acceleration of access, we need this certainty for the future, and i very much hope that we will have very, very strong support in the vote tomorrow and that we will reach a rapid decision in consultation with the council.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank the chairman of the stoa committee, eva kaili, very warmly. the new technologies sometimes surprise us, of course, but on the other hand we are prepared to deal with them intensively. and just as printing changed the world, so blockchain will change the world, with all its opportunities and risks. we have the opportunity to build trust systems, and trust is something that we've lost some of on the internet. also the transparency of what algorithms are being used, what is the actual state of the various algorithms that are here, how are the experts in this field found worldwide, are there confidentiality agreements that experts here can only have their knowledge available to individual large corporations, and how can we make our landscape in education fit for this new future? i've seen in south korea that eight-year-olds are already learning coding. i think it's a challenge for us to find the right structures here as well. the commission has also been active in vocational training, so that older, more experienced staff can also pass these technologies. and of course, we also have foresight technology, where we have to look at what impact this has on culture, on sports, on the economy, on the environment. i think these impact assessments are particularly important. and that is why the negotiations for fp9 are so important now, where we need to look at how these technologies can be reintegrated into, for example, public-private partnership programmes and how universities with small and medium-sized enterprises can drive these technologies forward.
i have to say, madam president, the commissioner, my fellow members, is not going to be able to do that. life in the region has its ups and downs. from my mining farm, it's seven kilometers to the nearest town, to the nearest doctor, to the nearest shopping mall, to the nearest bus stop, or to the nearest pharmacy. and i'm lucky to have you. my family and i live in a region where there is relatively a lot of tourism, where this infrastructure still exists. if even that infrastructure is gone, what family with three children will remain in the region? probably the least people move to the city. but it's not just about the infrastructure that we need in the countryside. it is also about how we assess the value of rural areas. there is a lot of talk in this paper about economic contribution, about what economic contribution people in the countryside make. but how much does the rural area pay to ensure that our urban population can do what they do every day, when they go out on the weekends to experience a little nature, to get some fresh air, to see a sunset and to stay physically and mentally healthy? the rural regions are also an essential part of the performance of our urban population. one more hint about the spending of money. to sell us in the country, minus 15% would be a great support i think that borders on cynicism! however, it is also a question of how this money is spent. is this money being used to strengthen regional economic cycles? or is it used to bring in companies from somewhere else to build their things here? or are farmers being supported in direct marketing and in setting up regional value-added circuits themselves? or is it just a supermarket being put in the village by a large chain? so it is not just the amount of money that counts, but also the quality of the investment and whether or not it really supports rural areas. unfortunately, there have been many negative examples in the past. i hope you can make it better.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am firmly opposed to the use of bad language to agitate against the austrian presidency of the council. on the contrary, the austrian presidency is a model of best practice for how to conduct such a presidency. and the austrian government is also supported by a growing strength and confidence of the population. now, as to the real cause here, the brexit debate, all i can tell you is that you're going about this the wrong way. the british have decided to leave the european union. i regret that, as i would have liked to have had the british as partners in reform. but a democratic vote is to be respected. i can only ask you not to meet this with a vengeful action here, but to meet the british with a friendly one, and i hope that you are finally able, as the european nomenclature, to negotiate with the british an orderly exit scenario that is mutually beneficial and does not bring the british into a vengeful action. and you must also be able to give an answer here, when we discuss the presidency of the council and the current council, as to where this europe should develop. the future can only lie in this: more federalism, more subsidiarity, more powers back to the home countries. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the presidency of the council naturally supports the issues you have raised. but solidarity - there is always the question of how it is assessed, whether those states which already bear a burden of problems are given more responsibility. the austrian presidency has chosen the motto 'a europe that protects' and in so doing it has also struck at the very heart of the european challenge of our time, namely to solve the migration problem. and by now, even by a majority of this house, it is clear that this question must be resolved. only some people stick their heads in the sand.
i have to say, madam president, a meeting of heads of state and government chases the other. this frantic activity is in clear contrast to the results. for years, the same issues have been raised - mostly about migration - under the slogan that we finally have a solution. you just want to be able to explain to the domestic media that you won. the proposals of parliament have been largely ignored, the problems are unresolved, as is the situation in the hotspots on the greek islands, which were so eloquently announced at the time. the refugee shelters are overcrowded, the hygiene conditions are unbearable. people are condemned to months and years of inaction and cannot count on swift, legal proceedings. children are particularly affected. suicide, self-harm and outlandish behaviour among minors are commonplace. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we need a real solution to the problems, not a symbolic policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we're running out of time. it's not just brexit that's pressing the clock. i have to say to the citizens: for all the proposals, for all the problems and challenges, there are proposals from the commission and decisions from the european parliament. we are simply waiting for the council to end its blockade of the negotiations and to develop a style that is oriented towards solutions rather than blocks. if we want to make the european union more effective, more democratic and more efficient, we must decide not to block external border controls, the asylum agency or legal immigration. it must decide to live by the old community of law and values and to initiate the article 7 procedure against poland and hungary. it must stand together and take on european responsibilities, rather than leaving citizens on their own. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we expect that from the next council meeting. open the door to the future and to the implementation of the proposed solutions!
in writing. the half-time record of the austrian presidency is modest. instead of building bridges, they are being torn down week after week. 'it was a mess' was the tenor of the international press after the salzburg summit. in his state of the union address, president juncker gave a clear mandate to the austrian presidency: to organise solidarity on the migration issue on a permanent basis. that means sensible solutions instead of rushing. we in the european parliament have adopted our position on the reform of asylum. these are sustainable and realistic solutions: a common european asylum system, fast procedures across europe and legal pathways. the second point is the motto of the austrian presidency: a europe that protects! this means more than just fences and border protection. this means social protection first and foremost! the council presidency has completely neglected this area! the austrian presidency could make its contribution to a social europe! work-life balance or transparent and reliable working conditions - to name two - are not an issue at all! on the contrary, social policy developments in austria also clearly show that social protection, strengthening workers' rights and also the fight against child poverty are not part of the austrian government's work programme, neither in austria nor in the eu!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. the starting point for this discussion is the frequent violation of human rights standards by transnational corporations. the guiding principles on human rights and business are already a first step in the right direction. i have serious concerns, however. the rules are neither binding nor enforceable. it is therefore in the interest of all of us to develop a binding instrument within the framework of the united nations to involve as many states as possible. it is only in this way that we can disprove the argument of the conservatives that european companies would suffer from competitive disadvantages. but unfortunately, since the eu has no formal mandate to participate actively in the drafting of the treaty, i call on the member states to finally adopt a common position and to work with great commitment and ambition for a binding instrument for the protection of human rights.
in writing. i have seen firsthand, during my visits to the region, the excellent work that unrwa is doing in the palestinian territories. the organization is vital for the basic infrastructure of the palestinians in the gaza strip and the west bank schools, hospitals, food supply! the commission has also been asked to provide financial support for 400 000 palestinian refugees in syria. it is therefore necessary that the european union continue to support unrwa and its adequate funding. the announcement of an increase in eu funding is welcome: if the us is to fail, europe must be all the stronger, all the more determined in its pledge of support. as we now know, the eu - and above all the people affected on the ground - cannot rely on the us as a neutral mediator in the peace process. the european union must be prepared to play this role. but this can only be achieved by a genuine common european foreign policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am amused myself to some extent when a green person here in the house speaks of panic-mongering in connection with co2 emissions and climate protection. i think the panic is more on your side. but let us return to the real politics. these objectives are unrealistic for me in terms of real policy. to some extent, we are also drifting. we are driven by some green people, but we are also driven by competition from outside europe, which is taking a very massive hit on our car market. it is clear that we need to adapt our car market and, of course, car emissions to the challenges of the 21st century. we must create the conditions for this, create a fair framework. that's our job. the rest is up to the companies themselves. it's a bit shortsighted to commit to a battery initiative here. first, although electricity comes from the outlet, it is not produced there. you seem to be getting over it. and second, at the end of the day, there's going to be a lot of batteries that somebody has to dispose of somewhere. i don't know if you've thought about it, i don't think so. there are also many other alternative energy and propulsion options. in the end - i fear - the cost of all this nonsense will be borne by the consumer. in austria, and especially in my home town of graz, one in nine jobs is in the automotive sector. if we do not destroy it, we will not allow it to be destroyed, and we will not listen to the enemies of our own motor industry.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you very much for the word, i will save a little time. i would like to thank our shadow rapporteur, mr gieseke, for his sharp teeth on mrs dalli's report, which is not the usual thing to do. i think the commission proposal was already committed and well-founded. the unrealistic figures that have been thrown into the debate are, as i have said, unrealistic. the biggest problem, in my view, is that we have not taken the citizens along. we cannot explain why we are discussing 30%, 40% 50% and even 80% in this house. i think we need to take a different approach. i do not think that electric mobility is the philosopher's stone, or the only philosopher's stone. i think we have to think very hard about other forms of propulsion, fuel cells, synthetic fuels. just as a small example: electric mobility 0.7% of cars sold, suv over 23%. so where is the will of the citizen? i think that's where we need to look if we're going to really work together to achieve this important climate goal.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. these reports are important steps towards the creation of a single european vat area. we want to create a system of common rules instead of a system of exceptions. it is right that we should fight vat fraud in this way. because we have a vat gap of 170 billion and cross-border vat fraud of 50 billion. it is right that we should harmonize the vat rate system with the corridor solution, because at present there are over 250 exemptions in the member states which lead to fragmentation and unequal treatment. it is right that we are introducing simplifications with the concept of certified taxpayers, because the complexity and bureaucracy of the current system holds back growth and employment. it is right that we create a common online information portal, because citizens and businesses have a right to greater transparency. and it is right that we should create a better system, because vat is a growing public revenue, also for the european union. i call on the council to make these measures a reality as soon as possible.
in writing. the current vat system in the eu is a temporary system, renewed every two years. the minimum rate of taxation is 15%, with some exceptions, so that reductions are possible. the permitted reductions are currently set out in an annex. the final system confirms the minimum tax rate of 15% and introduces a maximum rate of 25%. the annex on the allowable reductions (up to 5%) is replaced by a list of goods and services for which no reductions are allowed. this gives member states greater freedom to reduce vat rates on certain goods and products, with the weighted average rate of vat to be above 12%. this approach could in practice prove to be a restriction on the fiscal freedom of national parliaments. moreover, the introduction of a so-called 'certified taxable person' (ctp) does not provide a sufficient guarantee against fraudulent economic operators and should therefore not be considered before the vat system is finally established. i am generally sceptical about further harmonization of vat, particularly in the setting of minimum rates. while i welcome the continued flexibility of member states in setting their own vat rates, i am not convinced that the new measures to be introduced will actually increase flexibility. the focus should remain on fiscal cooperation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, madam prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. for us social democrats, democracy and the rule of law are at the heart of politics unshakable! these principles are universal and apply to all member states, whether in the east or the west, and regardless of who is in power! we expressly welcome this debate and are pleased that the prime minister is present. we are concerned about the reports coming from romania and we want a detailed analysis of the situation without any ifs and buts. it is not because we are against romania, but because we have the greatest interest in a positive development of the country. the country has a great potential for the future, which it can only realize if it does not abandon the path of liberal democracy. romania's starting point was difficult. that is why the cvm mechanism was agreed. we are listening carefully to what the vice-president of the commission has to say on this subject and we are also awaiting with great interest the results of the venice commission. it is also necessary to learn more about the role of the intelligence service, because the fight against corruption must be a matter for the independent judiciary. we also expect the president of the country to address this at the next plenary session. we will, in accordance with our principles, participate constructively in the drafting of the proposed resolution, for which the libe committee will provide the decisive basis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make this clear in advance: i want to express my respect and appreciation for the romanian people. but i also want to bring shame and disgrace to this romanian government, this socialist romanian government, whose head is being investigated for corruption amounting to more than 20 million euros. and when in august of this year over 100,000 people took to the streets to protest against the corrupt government, a government adviser to that socialist government demanded that these people be shot. and another one said they wanted to hold a counter-demonstration and trample these people. these are things that are simply unacceptable. i would argue that they have set up a theatre in the direction of hungary and in the direction of poland in order to cover up what is happening in these areas in the socialist government in romania. i therefore appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of the social democrats, to put your own house in order and not to blow up a theatre where there is no need for theatre.
in writing. following the revelations of corruption and influence on the judiciary by the romanian government, there is an urgent need for a rule of law inquiry. the european union must learn from the failures of poland and hungary and react more quickly this time to protect democracy and the independence of the judiciary in a member state. romania must not take the path towards 'illiberal democracy'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dear prime minister! when you think of estonia, you think of digitisation, and when you think of digitisation, you think of estonia. that's a beautiful image you have, but it also comes with a lot of responsibility. we need legal certainty if we are to work towards an open internal market in this respect. but what is the reality? it's often very difficult. if you can start a company very quickly with a click of the mouse, it also happens very easily that maybe tax law, social law is circumvented. there's a lot of shit going on here. so my question to you is, what are you doing actively? how do you see your estonian contribution to take action against letterbox companies, to take action against money laundering, in a country that is very positively open, but of course also has to be careful that in the context of this openness, those who do not feel so good about the positive things do not act accordingly? so, in this regard, make sure that there is more legal certainty, online and offline!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on the subject of minimum income, i want to be clear: people should be able to live off their work. that's what this is about. it does not matter whether they are click workers, truck drivers, office workers, or whether they live in northern, southern, eastern or western europe. the best guarantee of this is strong trade unions, a functioning social partnership, a nation state and a european union which create the conditions for this. and that includes minimum social standards, that includes minimum income schemes and the prevention of wage and social dumping, the child guarantee, the youth guarantee. so a social network that we're all supposed to be working on here. this is what ultimately provides the basis for people to actually be able to make a living from their work. and besides, we need a pay rise now, because the economy is booming.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this is an important step in the fight against illicitly acquired wealth. i would like to bring to light a case which, incidentally, does indeed concern the united kingdom. it concerns the former banker ablyazov from kazakhstan, who allegedly embezzled ten billion euros from the bank where he worked and then flew to the uk. a british court then sentenced him and said, "we're going to make a freezing order here and have this property seized". he was also sentenced to 22 months in prison. what does this ex-banker do then? he's fleeing to france. he was also sentenced to prison in france, but after three years, in 2016, he was released in a night and fog operation. he's been missing ever since. we don't know what happened to those 10 billion euros. finding out is of course in the interest of this bank, which is massively behind it. but it is also, i think, in our interest that this illegal money be found and returned to its rightful owner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. - i'm not sure. madam minister! there are strict rules in the eu to combat money laundering, and these rules were tightened up in the fifth aml/cft, which was adopted in this house in april of this year. the only problem is that not everyone has implemented the fourth directive on money laundering. in total, eight member states of the european union have implemented the fourth only partially, insufficiently or not at all. the recent cases of money laundering in some eu banks - examples were cited by colleagues - have naturally raised concerns that eu anti-money laundering rules are not effectively monitored and enforced. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still too early to say whether it will take a decision on the matter. criticism also comes from the supervisors. the chair of the ssm, ms nouy, says that the current supervisory instruments are not sufficient to adequately address money laundering practices. president draghi is heading in the same direction, having now said at an econ meeting in september that he too is in favour of a central supervisory authority. the commission is taking a different approach. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the eba currently has two staff members working on aml. i think that's certainly not enough. the quality of supervision is to be improved through common standards, regular reviews of national supervisory authorities and risk assessments, including the exchange of information between supervisors and information with non-eu countries. the ecofin council yesterday decided to tighten up the potential anti-money laundering supervision. the austrian presidency will present a proposal by the end of the year to improve the exchange of information and convergence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we hear it from all the speakers: we have strict anti-money laundering rules, but recent examples in banks in the member states, but also outside the banking sector and outside the european union, which are closely linked to the european union, show that our rules are not effectively monitored and enforced everywhere, and that there is multi-billion-dollar money laundering within the european union. i therefore understand the dissatisfaction of commission president jean-claude juncker, the dissatisfaction of many citizens, that we need to tighten up our rules, improve controls and strengthen cooperation between the supervisory authorities. and we probably need - as has been said - a central agency, a central authority, to provide for control and sanctions, but also to increase the link between intelligence, police and the financial market. we must therefore ask ourselves: is the eba the right one, or do we not need it any more? we must of course ask ourselves: how do we eliminate the different supervisory powers and duties within the banking union, how do we eliminate the unequal levels of professionalism among national authorities, and how do we ensure a greater integration between banking supervision and anti-money laundering regulations? we'll do that in committee. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not going to go into that. you know that mrs berès and i are co-rapporteurs on the esa review, that we will be dealing with the commission's proposals together with the esa review. and i also just hinted that we probably need to go beyond these proposals to address the existing open issues, not just in the banking sector, in the member states, in the financial sector and outside the financial sector - we were at the hearing ourselves and heard a lot about switzerland. we can't just go around telling people what they're doing wrong. it's about bringing everything that's wrong to the table and finally putting an end to it. because we can't have a situation where we're bragging about how strong our rules are and then we're getting away with laundering money.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need more cooperation between the member states and more european control in the fight against money laundering. we have already called for this in the panama report, and there is a clear red thread in this respect. we have also urged the commission to examine and report on the need to create a single legal area to combat money laundering. despite the many revisions, there are many things that go wrong here. the member states are only partially implementing the directive and there are still many loopholes, as in the notorious case of cooperation between danske bank and the estonian financial supervisory authority, which has been mentioned many times. the implementation of the rules must be ensured, whether by extending the powers of banking supervision or by a specific anti-money laundering regulation. i want this business to end.
in writing. i am very grateful to the members who have put this question. it touches on an important aspect that is unfortunately often overlooked in the public debate on migration and refugees. the discussion is mostly about symbolic activities. prejudice is everywhere. the further away from the events, the more distorted they are. one such misinformation is that people in the regions where refugees first enter european soil are hostile and dismissive. i was able to see firsthand that there is a lot of empathy and a willingness to help. the problem is that people, who are not usually the rich, are often overwhelmed. it is therefore essential to strengthen local and regional authorities and civil society structures in line with the principle of subsidiarity. i have often had the impression that european funds tend to be stuck in the capitals. improving the level of assistance on the ground would also help to ensure more efficient management of the other processes. local over-requirements often also lead to undesirable reactions and call for actors who do not necessarily act in the interests of those affected. the european level is therefore called upon to act and should have done so earlier.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is clear that freedom of expression is one of the achievements of the european union in particular. but we have a debate about brexit, about the free movement of people. i believe that we have very competent politicians in the united arab emirates as well. in many of the discussions we have had there, we have seen that there are also many in the political sphere who want to live by our european values and who appreciate very much what europe has to offer its citizens. i therefore believe that we should also strengthen cooperation, especially with the shura council, so that when we travel to the united arab emirates and, of course, here at the seat of the european parliament, we can offer these fundamental issues of freedom of expression, including freedom of the press, as an enrichment for the whole of culture. we've learned from our practical experience that the best way to communicate is to talk to each other.
the commission has already done so. commissioner, i do not know who wrote your speech, but you said at the beginning that europe was a global player, a global exporter of chicken meat. do you really think it makes sense to maintain european production with genetically modified soybeans from brazil, grown on land where the rainforest is being cut down, so that we can supply the world market with chicken meat? the ammonia stays here, the groundwater contamination stays here, and the mass livestock stays here. do you really think that this is a model for the future of european agriculture? you argued with jobs. you know, thousands of farms in europe are closing down every year because they can no longer keep up with the price-setting of industrial agriculture. do you not think that a lot more jobs would be created if we ended this kind of farming system and in the future helped european farmers to have a species-appropriate and environmentally friendly way of raising chickens here in europe? and if you do not want this for the sake of animal welfare, if you do not care about the suffering of the chickens, then please do it at least to protect the health of europeans. i do not know what argument is needed to reconsider this kind of agricultural policy! i would ask you to persuade mr hogan to propose a support model which favours european farmers and ends the support for the agricultural industry.
i have to say, madam president, i have to respond to that story briefly. ten or fifteen years ago, we were called illusionists when we talked about climate change itself. i think it's even reached you by now. forests are cut down in hambach for the lignite and not for windmills such nonsense! to the austrian presidency of the council: austria is really good at making announcements. but if you look at what actually happens then, look at what your minister has just done in the negotiations on co2 emissions from motor vehicles. she sold 35% compromise as a success. it was not a success. it would have been about austria's vote to get a majority of 40%, and austria has not delivered here. you're not going to make your announcements. i would also like to mention the issue of biodiversity, because it is also very important. here again, great announcements from the austrian presidency. but has austria banned the use of the top biodiversity killer, glyphosate, or its products - because that would be within your power - for austria? no, you didn't! so when it comes to the deed, it suddenly looks thin. i hope, however, that you will support me on one point. if it's about banning gene drive, the new gene manipulation technology, and signing a moratorium on it, i still hope you're on the right side of history.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. a very warm thanks to colleague leinen. he was talking about the others in the world who should help us improve the climate here accordingly. i just read in the paper that elon musk has de facto resigned as chairman of tesla and mr. murdoch jr. has taken over that job. we know that murdoch has been a big part of brexit in the uk. is it likely that the diesel exit and the diesel bashing are now also being driven by these political reasons?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have a big year ahead of us. the year 2019 will be the first year in which we have to fix the multiannual financial framework, the new financial framework. it is therefore crucial that the priorities mentioned by mr viotti here are taken into account in the negotiations. we will only be voting this week on the european parliament's position, but the groups have already discussed many details and we are already fairly agreed that we want to set some priorities for next year, such as the design of horizon 2020, the cosme programme, youth, migration, research, the connecting europe facility, the question of security. there are many points on which i think it would be useful to reach agreement with the council, because here too, of course, the european added value for next year - next year we will have elections - can be brought to the attention of the citizens accordingly. and finally, it is also about showing what it costs us - the citizens and taxpayers - if europe does not act. the cost of non-europe is a very important issue which we should also communicate more to the public, because it is also a matter of showing in subsidiarity at what level decisions should be taken. these choices are very important for our future, considering that the defence of democracy has a value unity in diversity and that is why the erasmus programme should be designed for groups committed to defending democracy in europe. i am not going to go into the details of the budget, but i will say that the budget is not a budget. it is the ten institutions which, alongside the commission, shape and shape europe. perhaps i should start with the european parliament. this is the house that represents the citizens of europe, and it is important for us to show governments that we share common goals. i am very happy that the european parliament has decided to keep heading v below 20% again today, which is our red line. we have now, in fact, for the last 15 years had the lowest share of heading v ever, namely 18.53%. this is the lowest level in the last fifteen years. i think that parliament is already showing that we are also prepared to cut back. we have also decided to have flat-rate charges for members and for officials of the house and for our staff in various areas. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the medicinal products are not used in the same way as they are in the community. we have some members in the house who are calling for more and more transparency in this area. i can only encourage my colleagues to be transparent, but to post all your invoices online for all packages. you have the opportunity to present this on your own homepage. i have looked at this more closely this summer: there is not a single member in the house who has published the documents, and i think that is right, because of course the flat-rate justifies the cost of having them in the future. i also think we should look at the voluntary pension fund. i also want a study by the court of auditors. i believe that a solution must be found which respects the statute for members of parliament. that is why we must give the european court of justice and the foreign service additional funds accordingly. there are new challenges here. and finally, the european parliament has also fulfilled the 5% reduction in posts. this is now reflected in the 2019 budget. i can also say that we have slightly increased costs now, of course, because of the election year. but overall i am very satisfied with the present form of the proposals put forward by the council, the commission and, of course, the european parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to thank you very much for this opinion, because of course international trade plays an important role. i have noticed that one of the preparatory actions we have asked parliament to take, namely to strengthen the wto in the direction of administration, is not taking place because we have massive complaints that judges are retiring there, and although america has put a new case on the table a few days ago, there is no re-appointment of judges. do you think it would be important to give the wto greater support here, including from the european union, including in the financial area?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank you very much for the open and honest debate. we all know that next year we will have to defend democracy in europe, and the budget will of course also play a major role in this. public relations and 'doing and talking about good' must be at the heart of our thinking. i recently had a conversation with euronews, a television channel which is doing a lot of work on the european media space, and i believe it is our job to deliver good results to the citizens. in this sense, i thank you for the really fruitful discussion and hope that we will achieve a good result for our citizens in the conciliation procedure.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. clean drinking water is a human right, and rightly so. the commission proposal goes beyond the scope of the objective. let me put it this way: in my home country of austria, drinking water meets the highest quality standards. the volume of samples and tests now required would mean 70 times the cost for two thirds of austria's water suppliers, especially the small ones. according to a study by the university of soil science vienna, the commission's proposal would increase the average cost from the current eur 250 to eur 1800. the commission would therefore be well advised to look at best practice examples, because after all austrian water suppliers, with an average cost of eur 250, manage to offer the highest quality standards. i therefore reject the commission's proposal in its present form. it would only threaten the small water companies, help the large ones and ultimately bring higher prices to consumers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. two million union citizens do not have access to clean water. this is very important to me: these are women, these are children, these are people in households who should have this access in the future. i therefore think it is right that the european commission has taken up the european citizens' initiative right to water and made a proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am therefore pleased that, with the hard work of this parliament, and especially under the leadership of the rapporteur, mr michel dantin, much has been achieved. parliament has acted as a sort of sewage treatment plant for what has come out of the commission. the good has continued, but in the committee we have also been able to improve a lot, to reduce a lot of the good and to omit a lot of what we considered to be bad. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for making this possible. the parliamentary process has also involved several regional parliaments in my home country and the federal council of the austrian parliament. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr michel dantin. at the same time, i have to say that what has come out of the committee is not enough. there is still a doubling of the cost of quality controls in the report, which is why we cannot agree to this report.
in writing. the directive on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment aims to reduce the environmental impact of single-use plastics while promoting the transition to a circular economy with innovative and multifunctional alternatives. in europe, about 150 000 tonnes of plastic waste end up in the sea every year, with a steep upward trend, half of which is single-use and a quarter of which is fishing gear. plastic waste is increasingly becoming a threat to ecosystems and biodiversity, to human health, to tourism, to fisheries and to shipping. however, the problem of waste is transnational, with 18 of the 20 largest marine polluters being emerging countries. large-scale measures to filter out marine litter are costly and currently ineffective, so there are ways to prevent plastic from entering the ocean in the first place. this is what this directive is designed to achieve. companies will incur compliance costs of eur 2 billion and waste management costs of eur 510 million. the commission does not provide any information on the cost of implementing extended producer responsibility, and therefore the principle of proportionality must be particularly respected here. the vast majority of the plastics processing industry is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, which need time to develop and introduce new products.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the european parliament is not a political body. it is important that you address the debate on the future of europe today. i am not only concerned about the fact that your country will take over the presidency of the council from austria in a few weeks' time, but also about developments in central and eastern europe. the euphoria that began more than ten years ago has passed. the gaps that were thought to be overcome are opening up and new ones are being added. this is also linked to broken commitments, such as your country's repeatedly postponed accession to schengen. in general, there are, especially in the economic field, distortions which apply to the whole of the east. the demographic situation also poses a challenge. most eastern european countries are facing a huge brain drain. we should be much more open, direct, self-critical about these developments. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. rule of law, democracy and human rights, these are the air we need to breathe, and they connect us. mr president, it is good to hear that you too do not question european values and want to act in accordance with them. romania is an important member state of the union a very important with great potential. economic growth is well above the eu average, thanks in part to a strong commitment to the it sector. the romanian diaspora also makes a significant contribution to the economic development of other member states. romania has come a long way. the initial situation was more difficult than in the other former communist countries. the progress achieved was made possible in particular by the country's cooperation with the european commission in the cooperation and verification mechanism. the fight against corruption and the independence of the judiciary are priorities. only if this is achieved can the positive economic development of the country be secured in a lasting way. only when corruption is eliminated will economic success reach the common man. there is still a lot to be done in this respect. the s&d group will be a critical accompanist here. we are committed to democracy and the rule of law. these principles are universal and apply to all member states, whether in the east or the west. if you had a little more discipline, you'd let me finish, too. we therefore also count on your support for the european parliament in finally implementing the rule of law and fundamental rights mechanism we have proposed and which we will be discussing this afternoon. mr president, we are concerned about the deteriorating internal political situation in your country. we are not entitled to interfere in internal political affairs, but it is not good for society to become more and more fragmented and for irreconcilable differences to become entrenched. we hope that you will use your office and your personality to help overcome them and to bring us closer together. that is why we ask you to reconsider the role of the secret services, the last remnant of the ceauşescu years. in ordinary court proceedings, secret protocols should not play a role. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. greetings, mr president iohannis, it's good to have you here today. it's a pity so few colleagues are present. it would have been important to show their presence and interest in the difficult democratic political situation. in many respects, mr president, i was able to follow your remarks, to understand them, although you have remained a little general. the european union's standards are what you have sought: consolidation, cohesion, the famous european values. but i think it is important to go into a little more detail, and i miss your clear statements on the rule of law, independent courts and, above all, a corruption-free politics and administration, as mr juncker has done. i personally, as an old austrian, wish you all the best for the future and, of course, i wish the member state of romania a rapid political consolidation in its challenge for the first presidency of the council.
mr president, madam secretary of state, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. we need a european fbi against financial crime. we need a european solution. more transparency, yes, but we also need a national response, namely more auditors, more corporate tax auditors nationally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so more rules, but above all more implementation. i have to admit, i'm really shocked. we are used to a lot of things after the panama inquiry and all the other committees. but this is, again, more or less particularly strong tobacco. it's a full-blown tax evasion scandal, crime in the purest form. i want to read a short quote from a meeting of the cum-ex specialists: "if you can't identify with the fact that fewer kindergartens are being built because we do such deals, you're wrong here". so this is so sick that we as legislators, the council, the commission are called upon to be much more committed and farsighted here. so, a european fbi would be appropriate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, it is a scandal we can no longer manage to examine, clarify and reconsider in every parliamentary debate a new tax fraud, which committee fortunately we have the tax committee should review these files. this is without doubt the biggest tax fraud in history. eleven countries are involved. over 55 billion euros of taxpayers' money was embezzled, was transferred back. we therefore very clearly demand that all those responsible be held accountable on the basis of a comprehensive, independent and crossborder investigation, that all the gaps and ambiguities within the national systems be eliminated and that controls be tightened, that the existing european rules on the exchange of information be extended at last to capital gains tax and that there be strong, dissuasive sanction mechanisms. we must act, we must act concretely, not just investigate and go after tax evaders.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mr panzeri the following question: it will not be enough to issue a warrant for the murderers, but i believe we also need personalised sanctions for all those involved in the action. do you think that freezing accounts and travel bans, like we do in other countries, with personalized sanctions, would be the right approach?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the murder of jamal khashoggi is an act of unimaginable bestiality like from a horror movie. the saudi regime's lack of regard for human rights is a clear example of this. this has to have consequences! the regime in riyadh must not be courted any longer, and above all the arms deliveries must be stopped. we've heard that before today. however, there are legitimate doubts and there is a fear that we will fall back into the usual mode: excitement, sharp criticism, and then fall back into the lure of saudi money. this is not happening! we don't need a pr-driven revolution like the crown prince did, but real change, and that's what khashoggi had in mind. in his last post-mortem column for the washington post, he announced the creation of a transnational arab information platform to end the vicious cycle of poverty, mismanagement and lack of education. that was his legacy. that is why we must not give up hope that there will be an arab democracy.
mr president, i have two points to make. it’s terrible what the saudis did to jamal khashoggi. there are no words for this savage killing of a journalist – and i say this as a fellow journalist. but we must not forget how gingerly we have been treating saudi arabia for years, and how they practically get – and got – away with anything and everything, regardless of the brutal atrocities they have been committing on their own soil, to their own people, and in yemen and qatar, and so on. the second point: it’s all too ironic (if it were not so sad) that we rely on turkey, of all countries, and on president erdoğan, of all people, when we discuss the brutal murder of jamal khashoggi. i just wonder what all the turkish journalists may think of us – journalists who were dragged to jail more than two years ago by the same leader who is now our key witness in the khashoggi case. it’s only logical, therefore, to call for an independent, unbiased international investigation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am particularly pleased that we are discussing in this case situations which are hardly reflected in public perception but which are of the utmost importance geopolitically. the increasingly aggressive and protectionist behaviour of russia in the azov sea is one such example and a continuation of the expansionist policy we have seen in recent years and which we condemn in the strongest terms. today, the bitter reality of what we foresaw at the beginning of the construction of the kerch strait bridge in 2016 is that the comprehensive and targeted inspections of ships, including those flying european flags, lead to costly delays and are solely due to russia's long-term goal of halting international trade in ukrainian ports. we must ensure that the destabilisation of the region is stopped. russia must adhere to the united nations convention on the law of the sea, fulfil its obligations under international law and lift controls in order to restore the free movement of goods.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not two years ago, this house, by a large majority, called on the commission to set up a low-threshold interinstitutional mechanism to guarantee fundamental rights. unfortunately, the commission has not shown much enthusiasm for this proposal, unlike some member states, where there has been very positive feedback. such a mechanism also known as the drf packagewould help us to ensure a more effective and sustainable safeguarding of fundamental democratic rights. the starting point is simple. the copenhagen criteria are a clear barrier to membership of the union. once this is achieved, there is hardly any adequate means of punishing a failure to comply or an intentional violation. the existing instruments are often too aggressive and too poorly targeted to influence threatening developments at an early stage. once the problems are addressed at eu level, criticism by the member states concerned is usually styled as an external threat and a solution is very difficult. we have had to find that out over and over again in recent years. the new mechanism, on the other hand, proposes to link existing instruments, to start at an early stage and to put all member states - old and new - on an equal footing. a democracy scoreboard is a format similar to the venice commission, which opens up comparison possibilities and is being used at an early stage. the creation of such a mechanism would, i believe, bring new capacity for action and make the culture of debate more concrete.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the re-regulation of the schengen information system is a major step towards a european security union, to massively strengthen the fight against terrorism, serious crime, organised crime, illegal migration and asylum abuse at the eu's external borders and in the daily work of the police and judiciary, europol, frontex and eurojust. the use of facial recognition, biometrics, fingerprints, handprints and dna will become commonplace as early as 2019 to 2020. this is a european success. the next step will be the full networking of all eu databases. because that is our goal: every female officer, every officer must be able to identify dangerous people at any time and act immediately. and this is the interoperability that has been achieved. i congratulate the commission and the rapporteurs. let us continue this effective work consistently, we owe it to the people of europe!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is a great example of the kind of europe we want to see. last time it was the hungarians and the poles, now it is the italians, just because in those countries you obviously do not like the governments. the same applies to the negotiations on the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. again, i cannot help feeling that you are trying to make the british look bad by punishing them. that would be the wrong way to go. what is needed now in the final negotiations is to find a way with the british on equal terms, in which both sides are not losers, but how adults can carry out this process of separation here with equal success. the worst thing that can happen is that a second referendum is being attempted by the back door to override the decision of the british people. that would be the wrong way. they have done it before in ireland, with the treaty of lisbon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. please write that in your family book.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. summits follow their own logic. the choice of topics is often based on domestic political considerations, and this is quite legitimate. the problem arises when the issues are primarily symbolic. you may be able to optimize votes at home, but you can't solve the real problems. there are many things we need to talk about: how to deal with digitisation or how to address the wage gap within the union. as always, the focus last week was on issue number one: the defense of refugees. the result was meager. this was to be expected, too, if the political claim is reduced to keeping one's own responsibility as low as possible. it is very easy to find like-minded people, but the common denominator is also low. once again, only vague declarations of intent were possible. the european parliament has repeatedly failed to respond to parliament's asylum package. there is no mention of the indispensable reform of dublin or the creation of legal entry points. these would be the most important contribution to the fight against trafficking. strangely, the heads of state or government were also calm about the creation of european border security capacities, which is contrary to the policy model oriented exclusively towards national interests. it is also very regrettable that there has been no unified eu response to the brutal murder of the saudi journalist khashoggi. a temporary halt to arms supplies to saudi arabia would have been the least we could have done. it would also have been a clear signal that the fight against the causes of flight was being taken seriously. it is not enough to welcome cooperation with the arab league or to want to take cooperation with africa to a new level, as the conclusions say. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this summit was a summit of consolation for the next summit, the handing over of the packages that are ready on the table from the european parliament and the commission. on brexit: the brexit debate shows us very clearly, and thank god, that the european union is a community of rights, values and solidarity and not a game. we are a commitment, we are a responsibility, we are an idea. and not a single demand, not a single promise of the brexiters can be implemented in the withdrawal agreement because the people have been lied to. secondly, what do you say as a council - although i know that there are some - that of 40 proposals to deepen economic and monetary union only six have been adopted, that of 30 proposals for social union only 15 have been implemented? who is to blame for the immigration package being blocked? who is to blame for the blocking of the expansion of the border protection agency? who is to blame for the fact that the european union parliament and commission have to bring article 7 rule of law proceedings against member states more and more often? please end the state of blockade in the council! our patience is beginning to wane. i would also like to say, in the light of today's debate, that i have the feeling that more and more politicians in the council, but also in this house, are negligent in their handling of european responsibility. i therefore propose that every new official, at the beginning of his term of office, be given a day's tour of the house of european history, a tour of the parliamentarium, that we draw up a formula for the oath and that at the beginning of a parliamentary and a council function an oath be taken, a reference be made to european law and the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. i would like to comment on the second day of the eu summit: migration and internal security, external borders these were the main items on the agenda of the eu summit on 18 october 2018. these are very important issues that require urgent humane solutions! our proposals for solutions, the decision of the european parliament - we have been stressing this for three years now, after every eu summit that ends without results - have been on the table for some time. but the heads of state and government are still unable to give a clear answer. as my colleagues have made clear, there is a consensus in the european parliament that we have lost a great deal of time under the austrian presidency. this concerns not only the asylum package but also social europe and the important reforms for economic and monetary union. here too the european parliament's proposals are on the table. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would just like to emphasize that in the last vote, of course, qualified majority voting was necessary in some votes and that in the 798 vote we have to check whether the roll-call vote took place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thank you, thank you!
rapporteur. – mr president, then that’s ok; no problem.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask the honourable member - because he has mentioned the reduction in the error rate - whether a zero error rate means that the court of auditors does not audit or that no errors are made. it is, of course, a success for the court of auditors if the quota is raised. of course, if no mistakes happen, it's actually self-evident that you can also associate a high error rate with intensive testing, and zero mistakes not just with no mistakes being made.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not thank you very much, commissioner. we have already adopted the european parliament's resolution on the fight against antimicrobial resistance in the context of the 'one health' concept by a large majority. i believe that the package we are discussing today meets many of the demands and proposals contained in it. one is the targeted use of antibiotics. one of these is investment in research and development to provide universal, modern and good quality veterinary medicines for livestock farming. because we know that even with the best of technology and animal welfare, we cannot do without drugs. but in many areas antibiotics should be avoided, and above all the use of so-called reserve antibiotics or critical antibiotics. i think that is one of the main points we are discussing here today, that these antibiotics should only be used in the future for veterinary medicine in very rare, well-defined cases. we think and speak in terms of the one health approach, which means that we cannot forget that the question of future agricultural policy will also have a major impact on the welfare of our animals, on the use of medicines and on the future of antibiotics, especially in metaphylaxis. the other important point raised today will be our trade relations, because we cannot put high barriers on our agriculture and then not see those barriers on imported meat.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not what's gotten into you? i wonder about that, and i am sure that many motorists in europe wonder about that too, my dear colleagues. because what we have here is made from an originally good idea and it says so beautifully up here: charging of heavy goods vehicles, an originally good idea now this happens. what happens? it's not even about the title. what is happening here is a complete misunderstanding of the subject, and it is also a fraud, ladies and gentlemen, because a kilometre-based toll for passenger cars is to be introduced through the back door. what's going to happen to it? i'm punishing people who have to drive a lot and the emphasis is on having to. few people drive our roads for fun, just to get around. these people have to drive because they have to get to work. i'll tell you one thing, this too must not become a luxury. driving a car must not become a luxury. if i look at austria alone, if you calculate from graz to hartberg, for example, the additional cost of this mileage-related toll for passenger cars is 1 570 euros per year, if i take only 5 cents for the calculation for the road kilometre travelled. it is particularly delicate to include a report which will be voted on tomorrow, namely the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road vehicles. it says that the use of electric buses should be encouraged. but now many transport companies have already switched to new diesel buses. this would create additional costs of eur 1.1 billion over 20 years in austria alone. but what does that mean, my dear colleagues? do you want to shut down traffic completely, or what's your ulterior motive? i can only say to you, to those who at least think this is a pointless event, that you should vote in favour of my amendments tomorrow. i believe that it would be necessary in the interests of the working people of this europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu's toll directive addresses the issue of what taxes traffic has to pay on europe's roads. in short, who pays how much for the use of the road? this is not just a pressing issue in transport policy. no, this is also an important issue in environmental policy. as a tyrolean, i know very well that noise, air pollution and congestion are a huge burden on the population. freight transport in particular is responsible for a large proportion of co2 emissions from the transport sector. we're moving too slowly on the rail. that is why we need a cost-effectiveness approach in commercial freight transport. but as long as there is no uniform toll system for private cars throughout europe, i am in favour of keeping our austrian motorway vignette. i shall therefore vote in favour of clean trucking and the preservation of the austrian vignette.
the commission has already done so. i'm a little split on this policy. i welcome it with regard to lorries and light commercial vehicles. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am from a country which is suffering from the plague of austria, and i am reminded of the brenner and tauern motorways. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. there's a lot of argument going on here. but what's really going on? we're raising the toll on the highway. what are the drivers doing? they're going to the small-scale road network. this puts citizens at risk and the environment is being disturbed even more than it already is. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road network is not affected by accidents. that's the first thing. the second thing that really needs to be said is: how does europe get its head around having to make regulations for all the states? i pay mineral oil tax in austria, which is a mileage-based fee and levy. i'm paying carbon tax on the car tax, and we're paying a nova. why not make this word 'subsidiarity', which is on everyone's lips, really work and take it into account when making a directive at european level which cannot apply to member states? (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that this is the case. i'm still with you. i am of course in favour of anything that increases the competitiveness of the railways. but it is not possible to tax cars more and more without something happening on the railways. of course i am in favour of putting goods on the railways, of course i am in favour of expanding local transport. but what does that have to do with the fact that i have to make a european-wide regulation for cars? i can't see that. and i say that it is still the responsibility of the member states to do something about it. and this competence should be left where it belongs: with the member states, not with europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr leinen very much, because we have seen that the import of fossil fuels ultimately causes very high costs. will the cost also fall for our consumers? and will there be an increase in purchasing power for our consumers if we put more money into renewable energy and energy efficiency?
i have to say, madam president, i think the epp has made it very clear in these negotiations that we are not only in the energy sector for setting incentives best practice, scoreboard, mapping for the consumer. i believe we should legislate for the citizens and not prevent, prohibit, punish, set unrealistic targets against the will of the consumers. i believe that the consumer should be at the centre of our decisions. that is why it is also important that we establish technology neutrality in the objectives as far as possible. we know that we spend about twice the eu budget on fossil fuel imports. and that's why it's important to get the priorities right - in transport, that we also think about biofuels and synthetic fuels. can we invest more in research here? hybrid technology and, above all, the use of modern technologies for continuous urban driving, so that we can finally get rid of the red lights in the cities, so that millions of motor vehicles do not constantly brake and accelerate and therefore the fine dust reaches really frightening heights. continuous driving and intelligent parking will be a smart approach here. that's why: promoting machine learning, artificial intelligence, blockchain. and ultimately, we have to renovate over 130 million buildings in europe. there is real potential for jobs and economic growth here.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr kölmel for his comments. they're proposing massive cuts to agriculture. what are your goals in terms of giving our young farmers a future that will provide us with food in this world? i care about that. don't you think that robotics, machine learning and artificial intelligence in agriculture should be given more of a boost with research, frameworks, sensors? what are your objectives for a healthy, future-oriented agriculture?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposals are now on the table. i think that we must organise the timing correctly, and the december council meeting can lay the guidelines clearly on the table here, since the evaluation is in the final stages. so the negotiations can begin. i believe that setting goals and setting deadlines is the right way to move things forward. i expect a clear statement from chancellor merkel this afternoon on own resources. i believe that we should treat internet companies and the aunt-emma-shop - the greißler, as we say in austria - equally in taxation. the commission has also proposed that the levies on co2 and crossborder levies be transferred to the european budget, thus relieving national budgets. i think that would be a very crucial question of principle. i would also like to thank mr viotti, because he has made it very clear that we should focus on invest eu and the cosme programme, because of course small and mediumsized enterprises currently pay 80% of taxes in europe and that is the basis for a good social policy. that is why the question of the co-financing rate and the rule of law must be put at the centre of attention, because only this can save democracy in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. last week the committee on budgets adopted a mff of 1.3% of european gdp, which is eur 1 324 billion in current prices and eur 190 billion more than the commission's proposal. the commission proposal was already ambitious, since it provided for an increase of 48 billion in appropriations compared with the last mff. the budget did not take account of the uk's withdrawal as the second largest net contributor, nor did it take steps to reduce the structural deficit. instead, new tasks and priorities are to be adopted, which represent added value for europe. and that costs money. the eu should focus more on issues such as external border protection, counter-terrorism and defence. ten billion euros are spent here every year. the new financial plan is to be increased by 60% for research, innovation and digital and by 50% for erasmus+. these are good and sensible priorities which will lead to better protection of citizens and to more growth and employment. but this focus must not automatically lead to a higher budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. 73% of the budget must not go to cohesion and agricultural policy, but to future-oriented areas. the budget must be reconsidered and therefore the net contributors will have a hard time deciding on it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in short, both the commission proposal and the parliament's proposal must be rejected. the commission is proposing to spend a total of 217.4 billion more, i.e. to collect from the member states. that's slightly more than the annual turnover of the volkswagen group in 2016, and it's the largest car manufacturer in the world. we are losing the united kingdom, a major net contributor, we want to increase and extend the tasks, and then we are bold enough to claim that the share of the gross national income of all countries in the contributions is being reduced. but it is obvious that the rapporteur is going even further when he proposes an amount of 431.7 billion ecu, almost twice that amount. it would be a laughing matter if it were not sad and serious that in the end the net contributors, including my home country austria, would have to bear these numbers.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'm proud of my evp family. we signed the roaming directive here in the european parliament on 27 june 2007 during the german presidency. we signed roaming agreements with reding, niebler, pöttering and barroso. i must say that we had a price of 0.49 cents a minute at that time, and today we have a price of 0.19 cents for calls from our member states to other member states. i have to say that the first complaint was lodged in 2006 under wolfgang schüssel and that the roaming directive was the shortest directive of the european union, that it was successful in being implemented in all member states within seven months from the proposal of reding. that's why it's important that we now shape the digital global market. i think it's important that we are at the forefront of 5g, artificial intelligence and fibre invest eu, cosme. and the connecting europe facility with horizon 2000. please help us to set the appropriate targets in the multiannual framework programme.
in writing. madam chancellor, you have appealed to european solidarity. but for a successful future, europe needs more than a german chancellor who has so far been committed to austerity. we urgently need more european solidarity. europe must invest in the future, in youth employment, research and education. despite all the political differences, i appreciate your objective view of things and that you are a true european even at second sight. here i wish the austrian pig-throwing chancellor would learn a little more from you.
the commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european commission has been very successful in enforcing competition law and has cooperated very well with the competition authorities of the member states. since 2004, more than 1 000 enforcement decisions have been adopted in total. what's the problem? the fragmentation of national application of the rules means that anticompetitive actors are treated differently by country and that cartels can therefore easily escape fines by restructuring. it is therefore right and necessary that we call for more harmonisation in the enforcement of competition law and more harmonisation in the powers and resources of competition authorities. our rapporteur, mr andreas schwab, has very clearly described the development that has been initiated here. there are really four distinct areas. we will adopt tomorrow a more coordinated system of key witnesses, which will provide an incentive for companies to provide evidence of secret cartels, a deterrent penalty of up to 10% of total worldwide turnover, better protection of consumers against illegal business practices and a response to the new distortions of competition brought about by the digital age. we are thus strengthening the eco-social market economy and competition policy as the heart of the internal market. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. crypto-assets and initial coin offerings (icos) are innovative ways to store value or raise capital quickly. both have clear benefits for investors and savers. however, it is unclear whether the current national and european definitions of financial instruments cover crypto-assets and whether the applicable financial regulations apply to them. the regulatory framework and taxonomy were developed before the rise of crypto-assets and icos. the market for these products and services remains highly volatile and entails significant risks in the area of investor protection and market integrity. the warning of these risks may not be sufficient. rules are necessary to create clarity and legal certainty for the crypto ecosystem. the fifth anti-money laundering directive has already extended the scope to crypto-asset exchanges. this is a step in the right direction. at the same time, however, innovation in the financial sector must not be impeded, and a balance must be struck from a regulatory perspective between fostering innovation and protecting market integrity. the investor protection risk needs to be contained without hampering investment in the development of crypto-assets and blockchain technologies.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the un migration pact is the first global agreement on such a question and is completely non-binding. nevertheless, there is resistance from donald trump, from viktor orbán to sebastian kurz in his role as president of the council, at least at the same time as he is president of the council. this is a disgrace to austria, and i should like to make this point first. it is commendable that the commissioner should explain in substance why this opposition is not justified. but i also think it's wrong to argue on the merits. it's not a matter of content, it's a matter of culture. it's a matter of fear. the question is: do we want international cooperation in an increasingly complex world, or do we want to retreat to nation states and try to manage everything ourselves and alone? that is the question that is being debated and decided here. we see how certain right-wing governments want to interpret and decide them. for 70 years, international cooperation has been growing, and that is a good thing. now, the fundamental question is: will this continue in the future, or will some right-wing governments be able to break it down and turn it around in the next few decades? there's a lot to criticize. this is a pact that wants to manage migration, not solve it as a problem. mass migration happens when there's war, when there's hunger, when climate change is driving people to flee. these are problems we should be solving. we in the european parliament - i would like to point this out - have also been faced with such problems. we're making trade deals with africa that are causing refugees to flee. we have fisheries agreements with asia and africa that trigger this. we are not doing enough to deal with the conflicts in syria, yemen and so on. we should be preventing mass migration, not managing it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to express my pride in the austrian federal government. i would like to thank sebastian kurz, and heinz-christian strache, who as vice-chancellor was certainly the driving force behind the austrian rejection. i would like to thank viktor orbán, i would like to thank poland, croatia, the czech republic and, since yesterday, also the bulgarians who are withdrawing. i hope that denmark will also choose the way out. i hope that italy will choose the way out. i would like to use my opportunities as a partner in our ranks here to persuade that part of the italian government, with the arguments of the austrian council of ministers' speech, to reject the italian proposal. why would you do that? because this pact contains more than 40 commitments. i know that this will not be a primary legal element, but it will interfere with national decision-making through customary international law, through decisions of the supreme courts. and i know, when i listen to the political left here - whether they are greens, socialists, communists and how they argue against it - how right this rejection of this pact is. and even if jean-claude juncker speaks against it, i know that we are right to reject it. we're sticking to it, and we're proud of it.
the commission has already done so. i want to start by saying that you can have different opinions, but you should stick to the truth. i must say to my colleague, mrs gál, that what you said was a national position and not the position of the european people's party or the european parliament. and i have to tell mr vilimsky that austria has not withdrawn, but will abstain, although i regret that. but it's not the same. we have negotiated this pact, it is a success of the european union and it is in our interest. as the european parliament noted in a vote on 18 april, with 516 votes in favour, 137 against and 43 abstentions. we have said, with a 75% majority, that we explicitly support the development of a global management system to strengthen coordination on international migration, human mobility and refugee movements. and we have called on all member states to pull together. it didn't come to that, and that shows the problem. that is why chancellor merkel was against unanimity in foreign policy today: because we have unanimity, we have weakened ourselves as a negotiating partner in the united nations. so no to unanimity, yes to the ability of the european union to act. and we must ensure that there is a uniform european regulation. i must say that this is where the foreign ministers' council has failed, and where coordination within the member states has failed. and i ask that this issue be put on the agenda of the foreign affairs council of heads of state and government and that we make the single european migration package actionable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when donald trump announced last december that the united states would withdraw from the global compact on migration, it was dismissed as an eccentric exit. but you could bet that the copycat would be found. it was not really surprising that six months later it was hungary, because it is part of viktor orbán's political business model to create anti-immigrant sentiment to distract from his own problems. a non-binding declaration of intent by the united nations has been interpreted as an international legal obligation and has been highly stylized as a threat to national sovereignty and put in the context of systematically disseminated conspiracy theories, such as that certain circles want to weaken europe deliberately through planned immigration. enthusiasm was taken up and reinterpreted by the conspiracy theorist international in the wake of these topos. a compact for safe, orderly and regular migration became a pact for safe, orderly and regular migration. all familiar and not unfamiliar. it was surprising that a few weeks ago the austrian government, which had been leading the negotiations, suddenly took up this spin and announced that it would not sign the pact, which is not even planned. this is unfortunate because austria, a reliable international partner up to now, has now also adopted the fantasy of symbolism versus politics. unfortunately, this does not solve the problems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the withdrawal of austria and the other governments that are part of the migration pact is wrong, dangerous and small-minded. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. austria is the seat of the un and holds the presidency of the council. that means taking responsibility, not just having cheap domestic debates. it is incomprehensible that chancellor kurz should allow himself to be pushed around by the fpö, by vice chancellor strache, and thus jeopardise austria's good international reputation. the pact provides for global minimum standards, it is another step towards bringing order out of chaos. working together with all countries to achieve safe and orderly immigration is a historic compromise. so it's about principles that are not to be questioned and about the collective resolve of the united nations to tackle one of the greatest global challenges.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i should like to thank the rapporteur in advance for his great efforts. he has been following this project closely for a long time and we have had constructive discussions, although the european people's party was not pleased with this dossier from the beginning, just as the council has already rejected the first versions of the visa code and the trilogue has failed because the humanitarian visa is not so easy to handle. firstly, this humanitarian visa is already available in many member states. secondly, the rapporteur's proposal is problematic in that it allows access to eu territory without clarifying whether or not there is a right to asylum. and the third point is that the proposals on embassies and missions could actually potentially overwhelm these institutions massively. the rapporteur has now ensured that these recommendations are non-binding, i.e. not binding on the member states. the only question now is whether the visa code, which is being negotiated in parallel, will actually be changed and whether the readmission of illegal migrants will take place, yes or no. we haven't got that yet. i therefore cannot at the moment give my group's approval.
in writing. in this important legislative own-initiative report, we call on the commission to submit, by 31 march 2019, a legislative proposal for a regulation on the 'creation of a european humanitarian visa' on the basis of article 77 (2) (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the aim is to create a legal basis for member states to issue a european visa on humanitarian grounds to persons seeking international protection. humanitarian visas are an important and long overdue addition. it should be possible to apply for international protection on the spot (for example at embassies) long ago. that's not romantic, that's reasonable. we are therefore fulfilling our responsibility as legislators to find pragmatic solutions.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question is: do you think it will be possible to buy a sim card in all european countries in the long term? at present we can only buy sim cards permanently in our own member states. when will it be possible for us to have a real digital single market? and do you think that on a global scale, something can change? we currently pay 7 euros for 1 gb in europe, and if you're outside europe, it costs 19 500. do you think there's room for improvement?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank pilar del castillo and evžen tošenovský very much for their reports. the european commission has also been active in the field of telecommunications, and has contributed to the development of the digital single market, particularly as regards berec. they have ensured that more flexibility in terms of regulation is maintained in the member states without restricting regulatory competence. the development of digital infrastructure and digital skills is today - and commissioner ansip has already mentioned this - a key driver of competitiveness and therefore of growth and employment in europe. in austria alone, my home country, investing €10 billion in digital infrastructure would generate a gdp growth of 15%, or €58 billion, according to a study by future business austria presented on monday. digital infrastructure includes the build-up of 5g - we've heard it today - high-speed internet, the possibility of autonomous driving, the internet of things, artificial intelligence and much more. a key prerequisite for this is the european electronic communications code, which will help to push forward broadband deployment, particularly in rural areas. i think there was a question about that today. but not only that. the new communications code will also create essential conditions for investment in superfast internet to take place in the first place. how does he do that? the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is selective. but there are benefits not only for the producer, but also for the consumer. the code will ensure that international calls within the eu - we still call them international calls - can cost up to 19 cents a minute, that switching services and dialling numbers is easier, that low-cost communication services are available, that there is transparency, that security against malware is increased, and that citizens are better protected in emergencies by making emergency calls more traceable through caller location and by providing a public alert with a 'telephony' profile. (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs. i can still remember very well how, in 2006, during the austrian presidency, a student came to me complaining about the disproportionate toll rates in this area when making crossborder calls. and i was actually proud that the european commission delivered and that within seven months a regulation came into force, which was valid for all of europe and which was then signed by the german presidency together with our team in the plenary of the european parliament. that was the first step. we have set new standards here, because for the first time we have succeeded in introducing a sunset clause. this has led to what we now have, more or less, the fifth roaming regulation. we have introduced a price cap, a definition of the stage at which fraud begins. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but we still do not have free competition between member states. the virtual operators in particular need access to market-compliant prices. i call on the commission to do so. here's the slide path we developed, too slow. i believe that these prices, which are charged against each other, should be in line with the market. it is therefore clear that in europe we have an institution, berec, which must develop in line with the market in the future. i ask the commission to look into this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are discussing the fact that the powers of this world want to influence elections in europe and thus the climate of public opinion. we must ask ourselves: why do they want to influence europe? why does this influence take place? and the reason is obvious: europe is strong. europe is stronger than ever before in history because it is united, because it is economically strong, a factor which some powers in this world do not want to see cooperating but want to weaken in competition. who is the target of these weaknesses? the target of these weaknesses is not government institutions, as perhaps in the past, but each and every individual. these are women and men who are just communicating, consuming media. yes, they're our children, too. so what do we need? we need cyber defense. we need to have a discussion in europe about security about security , not just about privacy. we must invest where digitisation requires skills that enable us to defend against such threats. we need education, education, education. our children -- all people -- need to be able to distinguish between fake news and real news, between conspiracy theories and a real exchange of opinions. and we need freedom of the press. i very much agree with mrs harms that we do not eat raw meat, but we are constantly consuming information which has not been researched by journalists, but which comes to us completely unfiltered. we must learn to distinguish between them.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. the railways should and must become more attractive. i think we can all agree on that. it's always a good thing when i inform the consumer. in my experience, informing him when something goes wrong is always better than putting pressure on one side or the other. consumer protection is of course also an important part of the balance of power between a strong company and an individual consumer. but we must never forget that we are dealing with responsible citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is available to the public. the emphasis is on being consumer-friendly and not anti-business. there's a big difference. the balance of the report is such that we can support this objective. small farms are excluded reasonable measure. the report gives special attention to disabled people. two points i would like to make critically are, firstly, the compensation for damage by a voucher solution - i think that is counterproductive and also not feasible - and secondly, i think that the amendments tabled by mr cramer are counterproductive, which are a complete misunderstanding of the subject, when he says that he wants information on co2 emissions on the ticket. i think that is rather harmful because it dilutes the report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the new version of the regulation on rail passenger rights has many positive aspects. in the end, the eu will strengthen rail passengers' rights to information and compensation, which is our aim. finally, passengers' rights must also be enforceable. for example, from a consumer protection point of view, it is not understandable why guests should lose any right to reimbursement or compensation in the event of weather events. this would shift the entire risk onto the passengers. the principle of force majeure must therefore be rejected without exception. for environmental reasons alone, we must ensure that the incentives to switch to environmentally friendly modes of transport are not reduced but increased. this is why measures are needed to make rail travel as attractive as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on october 20, president trump announced the withdrawal of the united states from the inf treaty. this announcement does not come out of the blue. the united states has already raised its reservations about russia's violations of the inf treaty 30 times since the obama era. the russian reaction: the construction of russian cruise missiles, which are specifically prohibited by this inf treaty. the planned meeting between trump and putin has not taken place since. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear safety of the community is not compromised. this is the reality. we are aware that these days political decisions are being made more and more often against international law, political decisions against european law, political decisions against the building of trust. it must therefore be the concern of this parliament that we all call for them to return to the basis of international agreements, to the basis of dialogue, to the basis of respect for european and international law. the commemorations we are all witnessing in our member states - the end of the first world war, the 80th anniversary of the invasion of austria by hitler's germany - clearly show us that we must still call for the lessons of history to be learned. they show us clearly that we must take this seriously, with european action, with international dialogue, with multilateralism, so that we can overcome national egoism and the policy of expansion. and chancellor merkel yesterday called for us to take better care of our own security, so that we are not torn between the trumps and the putins of this world and, in the worst case, our continent becomes again the nuclear playground of vanity and unreason. i therefore ask the presidency of the council to help the member states to support the commission's proposals to reduce unanimity in foreign, security and defence policy, to strengthen european responsibility and to increase joint action and capacity for action. the alarm lights are on. we cannot go on with the agenda.
in writing. – the last thing we need is a new transatlantic arms race. the announcement by president trump to withdraw from the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty (inf treaty) is a threat to european and global security and peace. the united states’ retreat from multilateralism, international norms and rules, as well as international treaties, should at least serve as motivation for us europeans to foster a strong, self-assured common european foreign policy. rather than quitting the treaty, the united states should try to make russia conform to its rules, as well as consider bringing other powers into the treaty. yes, we have to adapt to a changing international world order and should not only rely on instruments of the cold war era. instead of simply abolishing these instruments, we should expand and advance them to do justice to this changed strategic order and bring them into the 21st century. that is why it is important to have a strong actor like the eu, which is committed to multilateralism, a rules-based international order and the commitment to international treaties. however, for that we need a more effective, more unified and more credible european foreign policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i want to focus on the core of the discussion. the nuclear agreement with iran was one of the most intensively prepared multilateral treaties in recent times. for years, the issue of iran's withdrawal from its nuclear programme has been the subject of intense discussion by various parties. this not only eliminated the constant threat of war but also laid the foundations for peaceful development. the resulting lifting of economic sanctions should end the isolation of the iranian economy, generate economic win-win and create the basis for prosperity at home. the hope was that this would also create a new zone of stability in a region that had been troubled for decades. this is a very important issue, especially for europe. the european union also plays a key role in the treaty's creation and it is in the interests of the union and its member states that the process does not come to a standstill. the iranian side has taken all its commitments seriously so far. all international inspections have so far confirmed this 12 times in a row. the reason why the process is not really progressing and why more and more companies are reluctant to engage economically is mainly because the us, under trump's influence, has abandoned multilateralism. the us unilateralism is a major challenge, not only in the iranian issue. so we have to stick to our agreements, no ifs and buts. measures such as the activation of the blocking statute are necessary. and we must also take confidence-building measures, because mere assertions will not get us anywhere.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to thank you very much for your very intensive answers to our questions. in lower austria, we had a deputy governor who was bitten by a tick, and it wasn't detected in time, and it ended up that he needed a heart transplant to survive at all. in order not to repeat this dramatic example too often in europe, i believe that we need very concrete plans to detect lyme disease in time, to have data so that we also know how to treat it, and very importantly - as you also mentioned - is the research for a vaccine. what we also need is to educate the public. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's forestry policy is not disrupted. but the public, who have the right to spend their leisure time in nature, are often given the wrong impression, for example, that vaccination against fsme, a viral disease also transmitted by ticks, provides general protection against tick bites. i believe that the member states have a responsibility here too to invite people to spend their leisure time in nature, but to make them aware of the dangers that lurk there. the fsme vaccine does not protect against lyme disease.
mr president, the situation in bangladesh is very worrying. the country is facing growing repression against civil society, political activists and human rights defenders. there are reports of extrajudicial executions, mass arbitrary arrests and enforced disappearances. press freedom is under attack and bloggers are increasingly intimidated. general elections are due by the end of this year, but freedom of expression, which is a prerequisite for fair elections, does not exist. the opposition is fundamentally constrained and its leader, khaleda zia, has been barred from contesting these elections and sentenced on politically motivated charges. the forthcoming elections set the country at a crossroads. this is a last chance: either return to democracy and the rule of law, or slip into lawlessness and chaos. europe will be faced with the consequences if this happens. i appeal to the authorities to establish conditions where people can freely speak out and can prepare for fair elections.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. they have today unveiled their net-zero emissions strategy for 2050. full decarbonisation is estimated to cost eur 290 billion per year and is expected to have a positive impact of 2% of economic output by 2050. so some industries - particularly those that depend on fossil fuels - may go completely out of business in this scenario, but that's what's being bought. the member states are also making enormous efforts to achieve climate neutrality, with only a fifth of the co2 emissions being reduced so far. even if the measures recently agreed at eu level, such as the expansion of renewable energy, energy efficiency and emissions trading reform, were implemented, emissions would be reduced by 60% by 2050. this is still far from the 100% limit of the 0% scenario. the way to do this is through a higher co2 price, up to €68 per tonne, says the emissions gap report. we are now at 19.77 euros per tonne, an increase of three times the death toll for some industries. so i ask you: let us act here globally in harmony with other regions, let us not do the energy transition alone. let europe lead the way towards a climate-neutral economy but in harmony with the others.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr danti very warmly for mentioning that the roaming scheme is a real benefit of the european union for our citizens. now, of course, the point is that we've developed "roam like at home" -- that's been very well received by the public as well. but the sim cards we buy, we can only buy them in our own member state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. do you think that in the future it will be possible to buy a sim card in all 28 member states and generate real competition?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking mr lange very warmly, because we are working very well together in this area. the wto is the foundation for strengthening global purchasing power. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. importation is good for all of us. we are all consumers. if we can get cheaper and better products from anywhere in the world, that increases our purchasing power. so export and import double the purchasing power of our population. i think that is the essential characteristic of trade, it is mutually beneficial and it is a positive development globally when we promote trade, and ultimately trade also secures democracy. the wto was established in 1995. i have to say, i was first in seattle in 1999, where there were just street demonstrations, where people were speaking out against trade and for protectionism. i'll never forget the president going to the dockers and saying, "we're closing the borders, i'll help you", which i never understood. we then had the doha round in 2001. pascal lamy has been following the idea here that we should focus on trade facilitation. this chapter has been closed positively. we have, of course, the question of agriculture, where there is still much to discuss, and aid for trade is actually at the heart of our development policy. i believe that the sustainable development goals play a very important role in this area: no. 2 safe food, sustainable food; no 6 sanitation, clean water; no 7 renewable energy. there is a real need for action here, and here we can increase purchasing power not only in europe but also in the countries that are really bad off, and thereby help them. i remember very well what we said in 2002: it cannot be the task of the ministers and our distinguished officials alone to deal with this issue internationally. we then set about setting up the conference of parliamentarians for the wto. i can still remember very well how erika mann and i, together with the international parliamentary union, created this conference of members on an equal footing. and the last time, in buenos aires, we had 300 to 400 deputies, where the ministers and the negotiators were talking and answering. this is part of the reason why the members of parliament, not only the governing parties but also the opposition, especially in the least developed countries, have the opportunity to follow these developments. that's what i think is crucial, that we also try to communicate the successes. if we see that many of the least developed countries have now become highly developed industrialized countries, that is also a success of the wto. the fact that we can settle trade disputes in court, before the appellate body, and no longer have to fight by military means is also a huge success of the wto. and we know that to get a unanimous decision with 164 countries, it's going to take a lot of work and a lot of time. and i know that we have had 42 meetings in the wto parliamentarians' conference so far and that those 16 years have really paid off, because of course the attention to world trade issues has increased accordingly. now it is time for reform to move on to the next round. the system has proved its worth, and we must improve it in the future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. president sassoli! i am also pleased that the presidency of the council is present at this important reform and that secretary of state edtstadler knows how important trade is. i think we have seen, together with the commission and commissioner malmström, that: if there is no trade, there is no purchasing power, and if there is no purchasing power, there is poverty for all. we see this in north korea: when the borders are closed, when there is a dictatorship, people are hungry and poverty is bitter. you can look at how people are doing when we don't trade. i think we also need to show more respect for our partners when we negotiate. in politics, what we believe is not always the ideal. we can also learn from others and build a better foundation together. that is why we should oppose protectionism, we should look at where reciprocity makes sense, and ultimately we should also be tolerant. tolerance means being able to listen to where our partners see problems in trading with us, and that we also set standards that are beneficial to both sides. at the end of the day, trade is a win-win situation. we know that the military usually has exactly the opposite order, lose-lose, both sides lose, whoever loses the most is the loser. no, politics is another word. we want to be profitable for our people, we want to strengthen purchasing power, we want to create jobs, not only in europe but above all in the poorest of these countries, and the wto can make a significant contribution to this. the dispute settlement is of course something substantial. we want to create fair conditions for both sides with the rule of law, with legislative measures. i think that's the key to the future. and that is why i am pleased that the reform of the wto is in the spotlight.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to say again what i said last time about albania: it is amazing how much progress has been made in the last two decades. in the early 1990s, for example, thousands of refugees crossed the mediterranean to italy. today albania is a serious candidate for accession to the european union. the most recent report in particular notes that the country is making progress on the political criteria and the five main priorities for eu accession. however, what must be the benchmark for all eu candidate countries is the same for albania: the highest standards must be met. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against organised crime. and before there is an enlargement of the european union, we must give serious thought to how we strengthen the european institutions, because in a larger union the power to decide cannot be restricted.
in writing. eu member states agreed last week to the withdrawal agreement and the political declaration on the future relationship between the eu and the uk. the so-called 'brexit deal' still needs to be approved by the uk parliament in december. the aim is to ensure continued successful economic and political cooperation between the eu and the uk. the bank of england and the uk treasury have now published studies, ahead of the debate in the uk house of commons, showing that a no-deal scenario could trigger a deep and damaging recession in the uk. a no-deal brexit would put the uk economy into a severe supply shock, causing demand for goods and services to exceed supply, which would raise the inflation rate. the uk's gross domestic product could fall by up to 8% next year, the unemployment rate could rise from the current 4.1% to 7.5%, and interest rates would also rise at an inflation rate of 6.5%. the brexit deal negotiated between the eu and prime minister may helps to avoid this scenario, maintain close trade relations and achieve gdp growth of 1.75% over the next five years. in this way both the result of the democratic referendum and the economic interests were safeguarded.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. a good day begins with another country not joining the un migration pact, like italy yesterday. i would like to thank matteo salvini, who was the driving force here, just as heinz-christian strache was the driving force in austria for austria not joining this pact. the united states, australia, hungary, poland, the czech republic, bulgaria, slovakia and slovenia are increasingly saying 'no'. and if you look at the main goals of the united nations in all honesty, this has nothing to do with the un migration pact. the main objectives are to ensure disarmament, peace, security and friendship, to guarantee human rights, and also to be a place of encounter. but the united nations certainly does not aim to solve the world problem of migration and thereby interfere with the decision-making authority of national parliaments and their representatives. this pact is a bad thing; more and more countries are recognizing it. i am glad that every other country is not joining this pact.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. clearly, those who oppose the migration pact have not read it. they're all about populism and partisan politics. because what is being rejected, what is in this migration pact? for example, collecting data to inform migration policy, or looking to prevent the drivers that cause people to leave their homes, or collecting accurate and timely information at all stages of migration, as well as saving lives and coordinating international action when there are missing migrants. the commission is also opposed to the crossborder fight against smugglers or to integrated, secure and coordinated border management. our government doesn't even want to see opportunities created to make it faster, safer and cheaper to send migrants back to their home countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is very encouraging that in the future natura 2000 will be better equipped with finances. we must help the member states to comply with european rules here too, as is shown, for example, by the deforestation of the last beech forests in romania. but especially in view of the climate conference in katowice - where you see the dependence of the entire economy, the entire city, on coal from this old fossil fuel - it is clear that we need to push forward the development and innovation of renewable energy sources, and that we need to support not only poland in its move away from coal, but all the regions of europe in their move away from coal. but if we all agree that this is such an important program, why are we giving it just zero comma or something percent of our budget? then why do you not agree to our amendment to increase the budget to 1% of the european budget - please, 1%! - if we all agree that this is so important. and to the climate deniers, or to those who deny that we have man-made climate change, even though the science is very clear, i want to say to them: just because you repeat nonsense often enough, it's still nonsense.
i have to say, madam president, good news for the working people of europe: diesel emissions are limited at the workplace. diesel is not good in the air, and certainly not in the lungs of workers. and that's why this is really good news. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, who as a trade unionist knows very well how important it is to involve the social partners in ensuring that the health of workers is adequately protected at the workplace. 3.6 million workers no longer have to be exposed to these gases. and that is truly good news. in the 21st century, people should no longer die from workplace emissions. cancer is tricky. you can't see it. and above all, it shows how important it is that we in the european parliament - often for many years - remain patient with the commissioner, who has remained just as persistent here - and finally bring this issue to a good conclusion.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you very much for presenting this new and improved protection for workers. we talk about it so much that, of course, some of the causes of cancer can be attributed to our own behavior: not enough exercise, being in the wrong places. but the workplace is one where we need the protection of the employer, the protection of european legislation, because here nobody voluntarily exposes himself to these exhaust gases, these carcinogens. that means that we need common rules here. here again, another step in the right direction has been taken. it is not enough to have the best legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore call not only on us members to vote in favour of this, but also on the individual employers to ensure that this proposal is implemented in accordance with the law and on the member states to carry out appropriate checks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. better late than never, commissioner. i would like to thank you very much for the proposal you have put forward, which you have also made very clear today. i think there are a number of improvements here which europeans have been waiting for for a long time. the european citizens' initiative, which has already been launched today and which has received over one million signatures from 22 member states, has clearly demonstrated that people in europe not only want transparency in the authorisation of substances entering the food chain, but also really want their right to it. the present proposal does both: it is a matter of transparency and it takes account of the legitimate interests of those who are applicants. you have said it yourself today and we have discussed it at length: intellectual property rights, innovation, personal data are not threatened by this draft. the only point here is to refer to the published studies in all the contexts where there are security risks, and wherever companies - and there is this clearly limited list of positives - can demonstrate that they are suffering economic damage from transparency, this does not happen. i think we have a very, very good, balanced report. i believe that what we voted on in the envi meeting is exactly what europeans expect. we really need to get this transparent risk assessment going. i also look forward to the main points of the vote tomorrow in the roll-call procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think we all feel it here: we are wavering between disappointment and hope, and we have only one request to the member states: do not turn your backs! let this council be a miracle, a miracle of decisions on the present decisions, on the present proposals! i am not saying that we should not be able to do this. and this is not because of the austrian presidency of the council, but because of the lack of political will that we are currently experiencing between the member states, the blockage of unanimity. it lacks the courage to decide, and it lacks responsibility for the future. the european council has been a very important forum for the debate on the future of europe, and i am sure that the european council will be a forum for the debate on the future of europe. this is crucial. we had hoped that this council would make a breakthrough on economic and monetary union, on voting on the migration package, on translating the excellent work on the technical sector of the multiannual financial framework into a political objective, on combating disinformation and, of course, on working for growth and employment by strengthening the internal market strategy. anything is possible if you want it to be. the proposals are on the table. everyone knows what to do.
i have to say, madam president, the european council is once again dealing with migration issues. this would be a positive sign in principle, if it could be assumed that the study of the subject would also lead to solutions. people expect this from europe. it is feared that the last council meeting this year will end up like all others since 2015: with domestically motivated problem statements and spectacular announcements such as last summer's failed landing pads. the major issues remain unresolved, such as the indispensable reform of dublin, the creation of legal entry possibilities or the blue card, frontex, etc. parliament has made very clear proposals to this effect, but they are being ignored. there is clearly little interest in rational solutions, or in urgent short-term problems, such as the catastrophic and inhumane situations in the hotspots of the greek islands or the completely displaced balkan route. all that remains is the hope of a christmas miracle.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. firstly, i am strongly opposed to the fact that the political left, and in particular the social democrats, are once again throwing dirt at the austrian presidency of the council. on the contrary, the austrian presidency of the council has been an excellent one, as well-known representatives of the european union have confirmed. and the last thing we need is your approval. we have the support of the austrian people - a growing support - and that is good. what is currently failing in the european union is heart, lung and kidney failure. we have the situation in france, where in reality a second french revolution is taking place with the 'yellow vests' and there is a revolt against your supposed savior, emmanuel macron. you have the situation in germany, where now a successor to angela merkel has been installed, in fact a merkel 2.0 system is being implemented and nothing changes in germany either. and you have the situation in the uk, where there is still a shock rigidity after the brexit referendum, and where not even a majority in the house of commons can reflect a majority in the population and a proper exit from the european union can take place. if you look at it carefully, migration is always the reason why these governments fail. in this context, it is excellent that austria will not join the un migration pact and thus also sets a course for european policy in the future. what the austrian presidency of the council had as its motto a europe that protects is finally what you should be writing in your book of birth. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. as you may know, austria has chosen the motto for this council presidency to be 'a europe that protects'. and what has been achieved is that the key areas of the question of migration, the question of asylum and how to deal with it have not only been brought into the brains and hearts of the debate, but have actually been the guiding principles. and what is crucial for all those who are critical of this is that the fact that this presidency of the council has been viewed positively by commission president juncker and other eminent representatives of the european union, and that should be taken into account.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it must be said quite frankly that the momentum for deepening economic and monetary union which was hoped for and announced by germany and france a year ago has not taken place in the form we expected. we are not going as far as is necessary and we are not going as far as the commission and parliament are going to decide. nevertheless, it can be noted that progress was made at the eurogroup meeting on 3 december, at the convention on the further development of the euro rescue umbrella - i will say this: it is still intergovernmental and we are calling for it to be transposed at community level - at early intervention to strengthen participation in the management of assistance programmes for member states, at the creation of a last resort guarantee, at the will to be more ambitious in the adoption of the pending initiatives for a european banking and capital market union and at the debate on the budgetary instruments which has been scaled down. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we therefore say clearly what we urgently need: a clear commitment to the rapid transposition of all intergovernmental measures into community law. secondly, a strong euro budget as part of the new multiannual financial framework to provide more support for structural reforms and to re-launch the political debate on european deposit insurance. the council also decided on the banking union. the member states have also set the objective of the capital markets union. the member states have also provided that all intergovernmental measures are to be transposed into community law. but we're not there yet. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. that's why we're asking you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to mention that we are voting tomorrow at 5 p.m. i think that is very good, because then the sitting can be closed at 1 p.m. on thursday. i just want to announce today that i will probably ask on thursday before the vote to have the sitting closed at 1 p.m. on time because of course it is now urgent to be at home for the elections and we have events at home and therefore a timely closure of the sitting for the votes is necessary.
i have to say, madam president, the european parliament has produced an excellent report. i thank my colleagues hohlmeier and stevens, i thank the chairman, the coordinators and commissioner king, who has been an exemplary member of this committee. yes, we must massively strengthen cooperation between police authorities to the extent that we end up - i agree with the honourable member - by bringing together a kind of european fbi. europol is the best base for this. yes, we must be very clear about the need to act against islamic radicalism. yes, there is, and there is also left-wing radicalism in europe. we must expect european citizens to be committed to european values and to the european legal system. unfortunately, we don't get that from these people. the attackers were mainly second and third generation islamists. we'll start here.
i have to say, madam president, the european union and japan have signed an agreement which has great economic potential. the european union's exports to japan could increase by a third, according to a study by the london school of economics, and this would bring jobs back to europe, and that is welcome. however, i would also like to make a critical remark about the fact that once again, as with ceta and ttip, the commission has not been transparent, madam commissioner, and has once again negotiated largely behind closed doors. the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter is a very serious matter. it is therefore a pity that an agreement which is good in principle should be discredited by lack of transparency, by negotiations in batches - again, by the commission's behaviour. i very much regret that, especially in connection with the important agreement with japan.
blue-card question. – i think it is quite important to see if it is true that whoever is against this eu-japan agreement is in favour of a war on tariffs. do you think that those are the two alternatives: either to have an agreement where both sides enjoy a win-win situation or do we enjoy the trump situation where we have a war on tariffs and trade? what do you think is the best solution for the consumers and for our people in europe?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to thank president sassoli very warmly, who has played a major role in the bureau of the european parliament in ensuring that we have a budget that is both sparing and efficient: the lowest figure in 15 years, as is the case with the overall budget of the european union. fifteen years ago we had 1.2% of gdp, and now we have 0.9%. so you can see that it is being done sparingly at european level. but new priorities are also being set, and i would like to thank the minister for finance and the president of the council, mr löger, for his efforts to set priorities for the future together with the european parliament. the future is very simple: research, erasmus+, small and mediumsized enterprises, border security. that was good. i would also like to thank mr viotti, because it is simply important that we think about the future, about young people, and that we act accordingly here. we have made savings in the pre-accession aid for turkey. we have also made savings in other areas, and it is precisely the investment in buildings, which has been reduced accordingly, that shows that taxpayers' money is being handled really carefully in the negotiations. in the priorities, we were able to increase strategic communication by 1.2 million in the european external action service in the european external action service . a small but effective amount. we have allocated a total of 943 million to the priorities of the european parliament. it is also very successful that this 1 billion which the council has requested from the budget to support the refugees in turkey has been confirmed by parliament and it is a very efficient way of providing the refugees on the ground with the best possible care so that they can return home as soon as possible. so, one billion on one side, one billion on the other side, i think it was a good deal. it is a deal for the citizens of europe, because in the end 94% of this money goes back to the citizens, to show internationally that europe is able to agree. it is important to show that we are united, especially in the context of brexit. the total amount of payments was 148 billion, which is about twice the size of the austrian budget or about half the size of the german budget. that's a relatively small amount. while at the national level 30 to 50% of gnp is spent accordingly, the european union has remained well below 1%, as was the target. we have shown in recent years that even a reduction of posts of 1% per year has led to a total saving of 5%. we have shown that funds can be reallocated and reserves can be used accordingly. it is a good basis for the multiannual financial framework that we start from the right base here. i would like to thank all those involved, including mrs bogner-strauss, very much, because we have shown that the austrian presidency is capable of delivering, that we are capable of compromise and that europe will benefit from it.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to express my gratitude to the chairman of the committee, mr arthuis, for having really persevered to the end and brought the really difficult negotiations to a positive conclusion with a lot of feeling and diplomacy. i am of course always keen to support small and mediumsized enterprises, and i would like to thank you for the 100 million for smes, for the financial opportunity in this area, because it is a sign that we are also committed to jobs and growth in this area. the fact that we have increased the number of staff - not as much as we would have liked - but have increased the number of posts at the court of justice, namely five new posts, also shows that we take article 50 of the lisbon treaty seriously, because of course the european court of justice must resolve disputes arising from article 50 quickly accordingly. we have also seen, of course, that the 2.4% increase is not too much, that the funds are being used sparingly. finally, there is a problem which may concern us a little more for the mff. we have seen pensions go up by 6.5%. there is now a proposal in the european parliament to increase the index to 65 years, to reduce it somewhat and to introduce a corresponding levy. i believe that reform is urgently needed in this area and i would hope that the mff will focus on future design possibilities and european added value and that we will see that it is actually clear that when europe cannot solve something, the costs of non-europe for citizens can be very clear. once again, thank you very much. i'm glad we did it today. we know that we can now stay in parliament because the exits are locked. i hope we can discuss this in a safe place.
in writing. the connecting europe facility (cef) is a major eu funding instrument to promote growth, employment and competitiveness through targeted infrastructure investment at european level. it shall support the development of high-performing, sustainable and efficiently interconnected trans-european networks in the fields of transport, energy and digital services. cef investments are instrumental in helping to bridge the gaps in europe's energy, transport and digital backbones. in doing so, cef investments benefit people in all member states by making travel easier and more sustainable, helping to increase energy security in europe and expand the renewable energy portfolio, and facilitating cross-border interaction between public administrations, businesses and citizens. in addition to grants, cef also supports projects through innovative financing instruments such as guarantees and bonds. these instruments provide a significant leverage on the use of eu budgets and act as a catalyst for attracting additional financing from the private sector and other public sector actors. the inea has been the gateway to financing under the cef since january 2014. inea is responsible for the bulk of the cef programme budget, totalling eur 27.4 billion of eur 30.4 billion (eur 22.4 billion for transport, eur 4.7 billion for energy and eur 0.3 billion for telecommunications).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i am not sure that the commissioner will be able to answer this question. two thirds of europe's economic growth is now driven by research, development and innovation, and the european parliament's draft budget for the multiannual financial framework provides for a 30% increase in funding and a total of eur 120 billion for horizon europe. i would therefore like to thank the two rapporteurs in particular for this ambitious proposal, which is so important for europe. the high impact of this horizon programme is undeniable. each euro invested under this line has a leverage of 1:11, triggering a total of eur 1 320 billion of investment over the next multiannual financial period. the commission calculates that in the next period horizon will be able to generate 0.19% gdp growth and create 100 000 new jobs. the main pillar of this programme, namely global challenges and industrial competitiveness, will take up more than half the budget, include the joint research centres and also bring a new approach, namely the missions. as has been said today, a very important mission will be decarbonisation. there are other new features as well. but i would say that it is only through programmes such as horizon europe that we will be able to continue to strengthen the competitiveness of european companies, research institutes and universities and to defend europe's leading position in innovation worldwide.
mr president, [inaudible] the people who are shot and injured, maybe research and science can deliver solutions where we have more security and safety for our citizens. we all know that the programmes which are delivered through this programme can deliver, and i thank commissioner moedas very much that in this difficult time we are going forward. we’re looking for our people within europe, and we take care that through the new instrument which we got through mission learning, artificial intelligence, the activities of the eit, the activities of the joint research centre and the european research council, we get the base to deliver all the safety and security for our citizens. i think it is a very important part of our activity that we stay here within parliament and fight for citizens to get security and peace and that, i think, is a very important activity. thank you for staying with us.
i have to say, madam president, i also share the thoughts of the victims, and my sympathy for the families who, following the attack here in strasbourg, are fearful of losing loved ones just before christmas. an attack like this also makes clear what we have to defend here. we have nothing less to defend than our freedom and peace, and that is where we must stand together. i therefore think it is right that this fundamental issue of social upheaval in many parts of europe is being discussed here in the european parliament today. i also think it is a strong sign that it is women who are pushing this issue forward in the european parliament, that mrs van brempt has initiated it, that mrs bogner-strauss, the federal minister, is there for the council, commissioner thyssen: a strong sign from europe to the world under the presidency of a woman! we must defend our freedom and guarantee the safety of our citizens; this is the first step in overcoming the distortions. we must make education possible, not only at university level, but also where skilled work and crafts are concerned. in the age of digitalisation, it is also important for europe to move forward, and of course in a sustainable way. i am pleased that so many of the messages today have referred to the fact that digitisation and sustainability are compatible and that sustainability for the labour market, for society and, of course, for the environment, must be broad-based.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'll say it straight out: i'm disappointed. facebook has a 0% corporate tax rate in austria, while international internet companies in europe have an average of 10%. we must finally tax europe fairly, and to do that we need the whole package: tax transparency, the eu corporate tax and the digital office. the austrian presidency has not made any progress on taxation. tax transparency: no interest at all. eu corporate tax: not a priority. even the minimal version of the digital tax has not been implemented. of course, that makes me disappointed and angry. this is politics behind the backs of the taxpayers. this is simply unfair, and we should not allow ourselves to be treated this way. the unanimity of the member states on taxation matters must be broken, and then we can finally put an end to this dangerous policy of blockade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european parliament is once again moving forward. we have already found an answer to the challenges of digital taxation in the report on the common consolidated corporate tax base in march this year. tomorrow we will vote on two reports: the transitional solution of a digital tax on online income and the long-term preferred solution of a digital office. we are doing this because we are concerned first of all with fairness, with fairness within the eu and with fairness through the european union, with fairness within the internal market. secondly, we are concerned with justice, justice between the great and the small. on average, the big internet giants pay 1% corporate tax, while a small and medium-sized enterprise pays 26% on average. this injustice must be rectified. thirdly, we are concerned with the capacity of the european union to act. we can only achieve action if taxes are paid where value is created. the debate shows on the one hand that only together can we fight against tax havens, against tax evasion and for tax justice in a sustainable way. we need to eliminate unanimity in all the ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, and especially dear ombudsman emily o'reilly! it is about the report on the european ombudsman's office for civil rights, and more specifically on civil rights vis-à-vis the public sector. i would like to make three points in particular in the short time available. firstly, on parliamentarism and our role as a parliament in this process. secondly, directly to the work of mrs o'reilly and her ombudsman office. thirdly, to an important area which we have included in this report. i would like to start with that because it seems to me to be the most important, namely the area of anti-semitism. we are witnessing a rise in anti-semitism in europe in three dimensions: the old anti-semitism, the new anti-semitism and the kind of anti-semitism that is expressed in double standards towards the state of israel. we do not want that in europe. we must fight this in europe with all our might. it is important that we were able to include in the report to be voted on tomorrow that the ombudsmen's offices in the member states are also specifically asked to pay more attention to anti-semitic developments. the second area i would like to touch on is what the ombudsman does, expressed in concrete figures. more than 15 000 requests and concerns from citizens were received by the ombudsman's office in 2017. more than 1 000 were referred to authorities, almost 2 000 were specifically identified as citizens' concerns and ms o'reilly has set up more than 400 specific activities, 14 of which were also of her own initiative. i say this clearly because the figures reflect what is being done here and because it should also be a sign to us as a parliament that we are responsible for legislation and for the control of the european commission's authorities, but in particular that we are also called upon to represent citizens' concerns as parliamentarians, especially as representatives of citizens vis-à-vis the public sector. in this sense, madam ombudsman, you can truly be considered a role model for parliamentarians. i thank the rapporteur for her cooperation. she mentioned that she was not happy that we, as the european people's party, had put forward some additional motions - that is part of the parliamentary process. but i'm especially grateful that we were able to include the topic of anti-semitism.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr zanonato very much, because he has also seen that the value chain in space plays an important role. i would now like to ask him: what is the situation with small and mediumsized enterprises in this country? do you see any chance of smes being more closely involved in the value chain in this area in the future?
rapporteur. – madam president, i’m very glad to be speaking today as rapporteur for the digital europe programme which is in fact the first pan-european programme for digital investment of approximately eur 9.2 billion that will be deployed within the next multiannual financial framework between 2021 and 2027. first of all, let me thank the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) shadows for the effective, positive and very smooth cooperation we had in committee negotiations. since the beginning, i very much welcome the commission proposal as the long-awaited answer to the lack of eu coordination in the digital race with other global competitors such as the us, china and japan. member states are multiplying public and private commitments to acquire state-of-the-art technology and to make it easily available for companies as well as for citizens. however, these efforts are too small on a global scale, and they can result in overlapping actions which we cannot allow since resources would be wasted. the eu is a pioneer in research and innovation, but our digital single market witnesses a growing demand for advanced digital products, services and professionals without us having the european capacities to answer it. this programme will focus on five objectives to reinforce the digital transformation, proposing more investment in artificial intelligence, super-computing, cyber security, skills and the spread of technology. companies, especially smes, will be able to approach artificial intelligence and innovative solutions within a framework that preserves our european core values. researchers and developers in the union will have easy access to high-performance computers without depending on third countries. in this respect, i would like to remind you that of the top 20 super-computers on this planet, only four of them are at the moment located within the european union. the european union needs to count on its own digital serenity when confronted with cybersecurity. we need to catalyse investment to develop within the union hardware and software applications that ensure a high level of security and also, not to be forgotten, data protection. the programme will also ensure that citizens get the opportunity to acquire advanced digital skills to be able to use the new tools at their disposal, especially in the public administration and public services. as rapporteur, i would like to highlight the key elements that will ensure the success of the programme. we will have in place a network of european digital hubs across europe that will act as a one-stop shop for our companies to easily benefit from the programme. we will counteract the skills gap in our labour market, offering targeted high-level training to upgrade our professionals’ competences thus unleashing the creation of new job opportunities. and we will promote our european liberal values by prioritising solutions that are fully in line with eu legislation, especially on data protection, that are based on open licensing policies and open standards, and that respect union ethical principles as we wait for the release of a set of ethical guidelines by the commission next month.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank commissioner mariya gabriel in particular for her continuous initiatives, which are of course important not only for our small and mediumsized enterprises but also for our citizens, who are now growing up in the digital world and who must realise that we can actually mirror the real world in the digital world and that the mirrored digital world has new rules of the game. the digital mirrored world has become predictable, with algorithms, with artificial intelligence. so we're also saying, okay, what can we do to make this world more transparent? and of course, we need to map the algorithms so that people can understand what activities you can do with algorithms, so that we can also explain to younger people going to school what coding is, that you can learn it through play. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. in fact, the first roaming regulation was the starting point for the digital single market. i hope we will have a global digital single market. and that's why we should also put more emphasis on the new technologies like blockchain or ledger technologies, because of course the trust building measures in the future will be very crucial to whether our children are able to maintain their digital integrity in these systems. digital identity is really the most important thing; these are the ethical principles that we find in the real world, and of course we want to find them in the digital world. i can only support mrs mlinar in saying that we must do more here.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your strong support. the european parliament has always provided this support to european citizens, european businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises and our european champions. the human being at the centre of our digital policy, the human being in charge, our values, ethical issues, our researchers, our young people, but also rural areas, vulnerable people - all these keywords were words that you put forward and they are at the heart of the 'digital europe' programme. we can take them to the next level if we join forces, and with this first pan-european digital programme, we are sending a strong message to our citizens: we want to help you in this digital transition, we want to retain our talents. that's why we have advanced digital skills in the programme. it's not basic digital skills, mind you, we'll continue to make sure that there are complementarities in other parts of the budget. we are sending a strong message to our companies: we believe in you, we want to see our european champions grow. and we are sending a very strong message to our international partners: europe is lagging behind, but it has strong assets, from scientific research to industrial sectors, to get back in the race. now is the time to move quickly to inter-institutional negotiations and to continue to spare no effort to make the digital europe programme operational and beneficial for our citizens and businesses. thank you all so much for your work. the commission remains at your disposal to ensure that the negotiations are concluded as quickly as possible.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to express my gratitude to the commissioner and all her staff because they have been extremely helpful from the outset, and we hope to continue in that way in the future. thank you also to my colleagues for the constructive comments they have made and for the cooperative, to-the-point approach in this debate. as the commissioner mentioned, i would like to remind everyone that the lead committee voted on the report with a large majority – 57 votes in favour, only 2 against and 3 abstentions – and i would ask the house to vote tomorrow in line with this outcome, thus enabling us to keep the balance that has been reached among all the political groups involved. i’m eager to start the negotiations with our co-legislator and i wish to work with the incoming romanian presidency in the same positive and efficient spirit that has prevailed so far. on a final note, regarding the programme’s financial envelope, i have taken the path of being quite a pragmatic rapporteur and i did not table any amendments to the commission’s proposed budget. that approach was also shared by my shadow rapporteurs. i consider that the novelty of the programme will be a key factor in the negotiations on the overall eu budget, and therefore i will advocate keeping the proposed eur 9.2 billion as a minimum acceptable amount consistent with the programme’s needs and ambitions. if we start reducing it, we will get into problems. i’m aware that, most probably, we will not be finalising the multiannual financial framework within this parliamentary term: however, let’s keep this in mind in order to have a successful programme in place for the years to come. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. since the symbolic closure of the balkan route, thousands of people have been displaced in this region. they live in catastrophic conditions, forgotten by the european public. again and again, desperate attempts are made to escape from this situation. this is a major boost for the criminal smugglers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not blocked. i have asked for the death of a girl, medina hussiny. we need clarity on what is really going on, on the number of people affected, on the resources used and how they are used and, above all, on how to solve the problems. it would be wrong to think that problems can be solved by looking away. such a short-term approach has already led to disastrous consequences in 2015. the commission is called upon to learn from its past mistakes.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not nasrin sotoudeh was awarded the sakharov prize in 2012. she was in prison at the time. one of the first actions of the newly elected president rouhani the following year was to release them, and this was widely seen at the time as a first positive sign of the iranian leadership's willingness to talk about the human rights situation in the country. i was able to meet her in tehran at that time as part of the parliament's delegation, of which i was a member, and we were impressed by her constructive manner. her recent arrest is a shock to us all, it's a wake-up call. we call on iran to take the human rights dialogue seriously and to do everything possible to ensure that we move forward here. this also applies to the situation of people with dual nationality, as in the case of kamran ghaderi. and we expect the immediate release of nasrin sotoudeh. it is also high time that she and jafar panahi were finally allowed to receive the sakharov prize awarded to them six years ago here in strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to apologise to the commissioner for not being here from the beginning of the debate, but there are now six other events taking place at the same time in the house. we have votes in the committee on budgets at the same time, we have votes in the committee on budgetary control, we have a trade preparatory meeting, we have the eea group here, we have a stoa meeting, and it is simultaneously the plenary. it is impossible to be present at all times. i think that we should also learn here in parliament - and i am referring to tanzania - that we should make greater use of capacity building, that is, the possibilities for improving structures, in our own parliament in the future, because of course these debates would be very interesting for many of our colleagues, especially in this area, to learn how global cooperation could be better achieved in development policy and with various other measures. we have time to start voting now. i would also ask the president to insist that we really end the votes at 1 p.m. today, because of course this also means that we can speak to our citizens at home. it's going down tonight. many of them have to go home to be able to communicate quite simply what we are working out for them here in parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not this week the bureau decided to introduce the age of 65 for members' pensions, to abolish indexation in future and to introduce a new 5% levy on members' pensions. i would just like to say, and i want to put this on record, that as rapporteur for the committee on budgets of the european parliament i am completely against this decision. we will appeal to the court of justice of the european communities because this regulation is not in accordance with the law and we are opposed to this regulation. i thank you and i ask that you take note of this.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for this broad support. and in accordance with rule 59, as rapporteur, i would like to propose that the matter be referred back to the committee on industry, research and energy for interinstitutional negotiations.
