on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on this issue, because there have been more than 200 amendments and split votes, rule 175 gives the possibility, if there are so many amendments and so many uncertainties, to send it back to committee. my suggestion to you is to use that rule 175 because of this enormous inflation of amendments and to send it back to committee. this also gives the possibility of giving some clarity and objectivity on this issue, because i have a very strange feeling when i read scientific evidence of one thesis, and exactly the opposite scientific evidence in the opposite thesis. that is not normal. normally in science there should be objectivity and rationality. so my proposal is to send it back to committee, because you can do so under rule 175, so that we can clarify this and have a more objective examination rather than by doing it in a vote here in plenary tomorrow.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i think that the subject of nuclear weapons is obviously a matter of crucial importance. i would simply say that, while we are of course in favour of discussing this matter in this house, i do not think that anything new has happened between the conference of presidents last thursday and now which would suddenly justify discussing it urgently. i think it would be wiser to discuss this in february, and therefore to take the time to prepare the debate well. we are absolutely in favour of a debate in our chamber.
thank you for giving me the floor. i have a point of order, pursuant to rule 151. on 19 december some of my colleagues in this parliament - including myself - wanted to visit the estremera prison near madrid, where our former colleague oriol junqueras is being held. in total, two leaders of a civil society movement are still in prison, as are two former ministers from the catalan government. three of them were elected to the catalan parliament in the catalan regional elections on 21 december. for a month we formally applied for permission to visit the prison. we never received a formal, clear answer. upon our arrival, we were denied entry to the prison and were not even allowed to speak with the prison warden. this is an unacceptable way of working for an eu member state, all the more so because we rightly protest when this happens in, for example, turkey or other third countries. i would ask you, mr president, to take this up with the spanish authorities and protest against it or at least ask for an explanation. the commission
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i don’t know whether there are many people or there were many people in this room who would have believed that it was possible to build an aircraft that can fly around the world in one go solely on solar panels. well, science companies, together with bertrand piccard, have done that. and how did they do it? they tried to get energy on the aeroplane as low as possible and, as it were, threw away everything that was not necessary. so you had a very energy-efficient aeroplane and then it could fly on solar. and that is the philosophy which we need to apply when we vote on wednesday. make sure that we have a very high level of energy efficiency, and then it is possible to achieve a high level of renewables, of which in the long run – though not too long – we will need 100%. that is why i am very proud of my political group with two excellent rapporteurs on energy efficiency and renewables. we fought for the 40%, and i still hope that we can achieve a majority in parliament in favour because this not only goes together with our achievements and our commitment to the paris agreement, but it is also something that can boost our economy, create jobs and ensure that energy poverty is tackled – which is also something very important to my political group. finally, the transition to a zero-carbon economy must avoid false solutions. we cannot accept solutions which are not contributing to real greenhouse gas reductions or, by doing a sort of collateral damage, have a negative effect on our natural environment and our biodiversity. so it is very important that we all agree on palm oil – ok – but we must also be agreed on forests and on the fact that we cannot use stamps and round wood as a source of green energy; i hope we can find a majority on that very important issue as well. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you, adam, and when i said we had two excellent rapporteurs, i also meant you, because you were also the rapporteur at the beginning and it was a dual job. i’m not sure – because that was one of the difficulties – that i understood your question fully, because we had a lot of discussions in our group on how to calculate the energy efficiency – the primary energy, the end energy – and i know your views on that. i think that would be maybe a good question for the commission, because every methodology has its advantages and disadvantages. i know mr gierek’s efforts to get a good methodology in place, and maybe that is something the commission can take up. i do not exactly understand your question, but i can assure you that in the philosophy of what our political group wants, it is the 40% by 2030.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. we have rarely been so divided in this parliament, and i regret that very much. we have the opportunity to put in place an ambitious but realistic energy policy. unfortunately, common sense is a long way off. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the impact assessments of the european commission are being shoved aside in favour of unaffordable utopias. moreover, we must not forget that the ultimate goal is to achieve the climate targets. so what's the point of advocating 35 or 40 percent renewable energy if the raw materials used are not sustainable? i hope, therefore, that after a good night's sleep, colleagues will choose ambitious but realistic objectives in the interests of our families and our economy.
in writing. the adoption of the regulation on technical measures for the common fisheries policy is an opportunity to ban electric fishing in the european union. this technique currently benefits from a derogation which, since 2007, allows fishing with electric trawls on an experimental basis within a maximum of 5% of the perch trawler fleet of each european union country operating in the north sea. the original experimental motive, now largely obsolete, is fallacious because almost the entire beam trawler fleet has since been converted to electricity. this technique, which is banned in most of the world (many countries including the united states, brazil, uruguay and china have banned it after serious environmental consequences were observed), is dangerous for the ecosystem, a disgrace to europe and discredits us on the international stage. more needs to be done to develop, support and encourage sustainable activities rather than to fuel a controversial practice. thank you.
member of the commission. – madam president, i apologise to the honourable members at the beginning, but there were so many questions and i will take a bit longer, because i do not like to be criticised as we are always very open. first i would like to thank parliament for giving me this opportunity to talk about these specific measures for greece which we adopted together, as we said, in october 2015. i am very grateful to the committee on regional development and in particular to the chair, mrs mihaylova, and to mr arimont for their continuous support in promoting these measures. i would also like to thank the committee on budgetary control (cont) – they are not here – for their constant interest, in particular in implementing the priority project list, as we said, which was launched in 2011 by my predecessor, commissioner hahn. as you know, we have together adopted extraordinary measures for extraordinary times, as you said, madam president. the impact of these specific measures in favour of greece shows to what extent cohesion policy has played a decisive role in relaunching the greek economy. they are also a vivid expression of the solidarity of cohesion policy, and i hereby confirm that the commission stands by the greek authorities to assist them in boosting jobs and growth. i think it is important to recall, first of all, the extraordinary nature of these specific measures. as you well know, in 2015 the commission proposed to amend the common provision regulation because greece was desperately in need of liquidity. the purpose of this revision was to frontload existing eu funds for investment in growth-enhancing projects with two objectives in mind: to help implement the 2007-2013 programmes and to kick-start investments under the new programming period. in total, approximately eur 2 billion were paid to greece in 2015 and 2016. this included eur 1 billion for the 2007-2013 period, linked to two measures: first, the increase of the eu cofinancing rate to 100%, which meant that no national contribution was needed; second, the early release of the last 5% of remaining eu payments, normally released only at the closure of the programmes. to maximise the impact of these additional amounts, greece undertook the commitment to channel them via a ring—fenced account. the other eur 1 billion was made available by increasing the rate of initial pre-financing for 2014—2020 programmes. measuring the impact of the specific measures on the completion of individual projects is not an easy task, as cohesion policy assistance is provided at programme level. but what is certain is that without these measures there would have been many more uncompleted projects and greece would have had serious trouble financing their completion. the report provided by the greek authorities indeed shows that, thanks to these specific measures, the number of uncompleted projects was drastically reduced for 2007-2013, and only 79 projects are yet to be completed out of more than 50 000. one of the most striking examples is the completion of the five highway concessions. the liquidity provided for the specific measures was a prime contributor to their finalisation. regarding the priority project list, i believe that the outcome of the exercise has been satisfactory. it includes over 180 projects in a wide range of sectors. to date, close to 120 projects have been completed, while 18 projects are being completed with national funds. 24 projects are being continued in the current period. the whole mechanism has worked as a trigger for the greek government and local and regional authorities to take ownership and action when projects were not moving ahead as they should. overall these specific measures have brought greece back on track for the benefit of the greek citizens. the high amount of liquidity injected in a short period of time relaunched investments in the greek real economy. according to the 2017-2018 edition of the global competitiveness index, greece scores particularly well on infrastructure and ranks 38th out of 137. as regards the increased competitiveness of greece, when we compare the 2017-2018 edition of the global competitiveness index with the 2012—2013 one, greece has improved notably in own infrastructures, technological readiness and innovation. these are typically sectors for which structural funds have provided extensive support in the past decades. these measures were extraordinary. i think they are the epitome of what cohesion policy should be: solidarity in action and not only in words. it is a policy that delivers, adapts to circumstances, helps concretely and has a tangible impact on the daily lives of millions of europeans. i would like to conclude by underlining that the commission will continue to provide all the information to parliament. i am ready to hear your point of view and to respond.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in summary, this is about the two billion euros that greece received in 2015 to be able to invest in projects faster and easier. we did so at the time because it was a special case and we also took a special measure - only on the condition that parliament could also exercise a special control, a control over whether the money was used efficiently and whether the projects contributed to the economic recovery of greece. i have been waiting for this report from the greek government since march 2017. i have written to the commission on several occasions, to the greek government, and it was only on 4 december that i received a version of this report, in which i must make an assessment, in greek. i don't speak that language and i expected to be told in a language i understand and can evaluate. i have been waiting for this until today and i am glad that we are doing this interpellation today, because today oh miracle i finally received this text in german. i regret this, firstly because the citizens of europe have a right to know whether this money has been spent correctly, and secondly because i would also like to use this report to prove and demonstrate that cohesion policy is important, that it represents a european added value and that it should continue beyond 2020. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i can only answer that question: firstly, the absorption rate in greece seems to be high, and if i use the word 'seems', it is because i did not actually receive this report, or in a language i do not know. and i cannot, at this stage, give a final assessment of whether the absorption rate is really that high, whether the money has gone into sensible projects, whether it has contributed to an economic upswing. i have heard the commissioner's comments. she told us that was all right. i would like to read it once, with figures, facts and arguments from the greek government. until i have that, or until i have this report in the language i understand, i cannot give a concrete answer to that question.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to say to mr czarnecki that i deplore that you have not taken the opportunity in your first intervention here in plenary to apologise to ms thun for your scandalous behaviour that everyone in this house condemns in every way. i want to say that in the name of all colleagues since you have not done it yourself. it is scandalous. first of all, prime minister, congratulations. i think what you did is an impressive achievement – the paris agreement implementation, the launch of the european defence union, agreements on the european public prosecutor, steps forward on the trade agenda, and then the digital summit. people are always asking me how is it possible that estonia is capable of doing all that, and i always say that it is because for 30 years in a row now – yes, jean-claude – they have had liberal leadership, and i think it has something to do with that. the advantage in estonia is that liberals are in government and are also leading the opposition. in fact i think it is an ideal situation for progress. but yes, there is a real opposition, and mr ratas can certainly testify to that. what is important now is that we take this digital agenda further. take, for example, the practices of apple now, closing down models. i think commissioner ansip has to investigate this, and go against this. secondly, we also need to go further in this digital agenda on the issue of the single regulator. we will never have a single digital market if we do not have a single regulator in europe. that has to be the next achievement, and i hope that everything you have done with the estonian presidency will be a launching platform to achieve that. congratulations, jüri.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr prime minister, after lithuania in 2013 and latvia in 2015, estonia took over the presidency of the council of the european union for the first time in 2017 and i can only reiterate to you the congratulations i had addressed to your counterparts. i am impressed by both the european commitment and the professionalism shown by you and your teams over the past six months, and you have once again shown that these qualities, rather than the size of the country, are the best guarantee of the success of a presidency. i dream that the three baltic states and the three benelux countries will join their efforts and their vision to propose together solutions for the future of the european union. you know, it's sometimes easier for little ones than big ones to make bold proposals, and god knows we need boldness today. my only major regret is that of a symbolically important construction site: i am talking about the posting of workers, which perfectly illustrates the tensions between the single market and social protection. if the secondment concerns only two million workers, it has a symbolic impact on many more, because it is, for many of our fellow citizens, the illustration of a europe that would put workers in competition with each other. while in the west, the sad minds would like to believe that nothing good can come from eastern europe on this issue, i must say, mr prime minister, that under your presidency, major progress has been made, particularly in the area of pay, rules for workers who pass through temporary employment agencies or penalties for non-compliance with the rules. i also welcome the progress made on the applicability of collective agreements. unfortunately, your determination to succeed has not always paid off and i regret that a number of issues remain unresolved - such as subcontracting, duration, but also false secondment - which must be addressed to minimise abuse. i do not hide my fears in this respect about the next bulgarian presidency, whose timidity on this subject is well known in comparison with your willingness to act, and therefore: the next estonian presidency!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is a pity that michel barnier is not here and nigel farage is not here because i should have asked them what happened in their meeting. i have to tell you that since nigel farage went into this meeting with michel barnier he has apparently been completely disorientated. i don’t know what he put in mr farage’s coffee or tea because he came out of the meeting and backed a second referendum! i wonder what substance was put in that tea or coffee, because five minutes later he is against this second referendum once more. and this confusion is not only in ukip, it seems to be rather widespread in britain at the moment. michael gove, for example, has forgotten that the ban on plastic bags comes from an eu regulation. the prime minister, ms may, apparently doesn’t know that the abolition of the charges on credit cards is a consequence of an eu directive. and then, as manfred weber has already mentioned, there is the whole hilarious thing about passports. i am a liberal, so i like blue more than red. so if we can have 27 passports in blue with 12 stars on them, for me that would be okay. but that was certainly not a reason to hold a referendum, as manfred weber said. more on a serious note now. i saw to mr tusk that we are now coming to the most difficult part of this negotiation. in our view as the european parliament, there are three things to do. the first is to formalise the withdrawal agreement now, as fast as possible, and ensure there are serious guarantees on citizens’ rights, because that is still a problem. for us, citizens’ rights are not a request that has to be made by eu citizens, there has to be a declaration by the citizens. the burden of proof has to be on the side of the uk authorities, on the side of the home office, not on the side of the citizens. the second request we have concerns transition: we need a transition that is a real transition. our resolution calls for a transition of not more than three years, and there cannot be cherry-picking in the transition. you cannot request a transition of two or three years on one issue and not on another. i am very pleased with the latest version of the negotiating directives by the council because they make very clear that the whole acquis must be accepted. if you stay in the union in this transition period, all the policies of the eu and all the legislation of the eu will be applicable for the whole two or three years. the only thing that will change is that britain will not be represented in the institutions any more, not in the council, not in the commission and not in parliament. it is also very important that in this negotiation directive – and we have to stick to that mr president – that the new system for eu citizens living in britain will only come into force after the transition. so there is no question of starting to make it difficult for eu citizens to obtain their permits to reside in britain during the transition period. that can only be applicable after transition. third, on the on the new relationship, we have do not need to reinvent the wheel, as we say. there is the treaty. mr kamall, article 217 treaty makes it very clear that we can enter into an association agreement with countries of our neighbourhood, which concerns trade, security, internal security and external security. but there are two conditions that must in any case be fulfilled before we give our green light as the european parliament. first, that there can be no cherry-picking inside the system. you cannot say, for example, ‘in this sector we want this and in another sector we don’t want europe’, or ‘we need a good deal for financial services, but we do not accept the freedom of movement of people’. that will not be accepted by the european side. the second thing, mr president, is that we as parliament will never allow a country to have a better position, a better status, outside the european union than inside the union. inside the union, membership of the union will always be the best solution for every european country and european state.
i would like to thank the estonian presidency for the work it has done and the excellent cooperation it has enjoyed over the past few months. it was no easy task with such an ambitious programme. in the field of employment and social affairs, the presidency has made great strides in a number of areas. i would mention the coordination of social security and the posting directive. the announcement of the european pillar of social rights was also made under the estonian presidency. while i support many of the priorities of the presidency, including a social pillar, i do not want to deceive our citizens. we must be clear and honest about what europe can achieve and contribute and what it cannot. for me, the social pillar is a missed opportunity for that reason. the pillar could have given member states the direction to achieve upward convergence, but unfortunately it has been sanded over in high-flown political statements. the border between the eu's competence and that of the member states is and should remain blurred. i said it before and i'll say it again: it is primarily the responsibility of the member states to achieve social progress and economic growth. europe must add value to this and not undermine or replace the policies of the member states.
the last european council of 2017 was, in my opinion, by far the most important summit of that year. it was a summit where the leaders not only reaffirmed their positions on certain issues, but also took very clear positions. i am very pleased that we are finally able to move to that second phase of the brexit negotiations and that the clear signal has been given that we will not accept cherry-picking. secondly, the progress made in the field of defence and security. that is what the european citizens expect of us: we are taking steps to increase security in europe. we go to a military headquarters, we have the permanent structured cooperation, we have the european defence fund. let's all just roll that out real quick. however, as happy as i am about defence, i am actually disappointed about asylum and migration. yes, there have been steps. yeah, we're moving along. but i think we really must insist, mr tusk, on solidarity between all the member states in this area. that we can handle this easily if we all work together. that's where i expect you to take action.
mr president, now that the vote by show of hands seems to be less divided than before, when electronic voting was just decreed, can we go back to the vote by show of hands for non-nominal voting, to speed up the procedure?
we are voting today on new rules for european fisheries. anyone who thinks that the same european rules can be applied to fisheries in both the mediterranean and our north sea is mistaken. we need customization, our own rules, and with these new rules, we can do that. the fisheries sector will thus become more flemish and less european, and that is a good thing. at the same time, there has been a lot of talk about the famous pulse fishery. the french are strongly opposed to it, the dutch are absolutely in favour. i can see why . they have already transformed a large part of their fishing fleet with this new technology, and we are seeing the result. they used a loophole in the regulations to do that. the result is that they have been fishing our flemish north sea for several years. we need to be clear about that. this has got to stop! as n-va, we are clear. we will always stand up for our flemish fishermen. we will protect them fully so that they can continue to earn their living honestly.
the peace agreement is now over a year old. but we all know it's not a winning case. we must be bold and say that many colombians do not actually see or feel peace. now take the necessary land reform. during the conflict, a lot of land was taken from the farmers. a law has been passed to return it, but unfortunately it is only a paper bill. and i think, commissioner - and you know this, i see you nodding - that this is a crucial point of the peace agreement. if you don't have land, you can't work, you have no income, and you end up in poverty. then, of course, you'll rebel again. that is why i regard this as a key point in the peace process. the return of land to farmers must be europe's priority. the second point - you have also mentioned it - is, of course, the ceasefire. of course, as long as there is violence, people do not feel peace. we must also focus on that. a third point which i think has not been discussed enough here today is this. this is an election year. just by looking at different countries, you know that in an election year there is always the threat of more violence, of bloodshed. we must make our voice heard as europeans. to remain committed to the peace process, but to try to maintain calm in this election year and to ensure that the democratic content is respected. good luck, we're with you. let us help the colombians.
madam president, the mullahs' regime has reacted with unacceptable brutality to the recent protests that have shaken the whole of iran. thousands of protesters were thrown in jail. at least 25 people, possibly more, were killed. according to amnesty international, five young people died in prison. suicides, dares the regime of rouhani to claim. the european union had to react forcefully to such events. i regret to say that this reaction has not lived up to what we should expect from the european union. it was not until january 3, four days after mr trump, that ms mogherini simply called on all parties, all parties, to refrain from violence. it made no distinction between the regime's torturers and their victims. of course, we are right to defend the nuclear agreement with iran vigorously. of course, we are right to support european companies' access to the iranian market, but that is no reason to be so weak, even indigent, in defending human rights. the european external action service may be good at geostrategic and business, but it is dramatically weak at defending human rights. this situation cannot continue, and the european union must urgently correct the shortcomings of its external action.
i think we've heard it here a lot this afternoon. this parliament is absolutely behind the nuclear agreement with iran. i don't think anyone doubts that anymore. but that does not mean that we should close our eyes to what is happening in iran at this moment. we also discussed this with mrs mogherini at the end of last year. the disturbances that were there, disturbances that i can understand as well: if there is high economic unemployment, if there is corruption, people take to the streets and ask the regime to intervene. we must accept that from europe, with our european values and standards. what we cannot accept, however, is that these riots were violently suppressed. there have been deaths, many people have been taken prisoner and now there is talk of mass executions! the death penalty! as a liberal, i am very much against the death penalty. i hope that we in europe will respond to iran. the nuclear agreement must not blind us to the constant human rights violations that are taking place. let us therefore send the following message to europe: the nuclear agreement is there, we respect that. but iran must also work on reforming the country. allow peaceful protest, see what can be reformed. let's also look at the human rights activists who are imprisoned there. i'll name one, and that's our professor djalali. he's in prison and he's being threatened with the death penalty. i would like to draw your attention to this specifically.
flemish travel agencies are now promoting tours of iran. programs full of culture, history and nature. colorful pictures that appeal to the imagination. yes, the atmosphere has changed since western civilization struck a nuclear deal with tehran. a country like any other, a travel destination. but the agreement and the thawing of relations must not prevent us from looking further. the iranian people are giving different signals and international human rights organizations are painting a dark picture of the islamic republic. executions are still a joke. and from within the prison walls, too, come dark and somber sounds. we all know ahmadreza djalali, the iranian professor who also taught in my country, in brussels, and is in iran awaiting his execution. a recent picture of him gives me goosebumps, gives me chills. a sick, frightened man. the look in his eyes betrays fear and loneliness. can he still count on us, commissioner? i call again for every effort to be made to save the life of this professor, this doctor, this house father. the following are listed in annex i to regulation (eu) no 1053/2013: these are just a few of the dozens of iranian cities that have been demonstrating against the policy in recent months. young people are taking action against unemployment, inequality and for freedom. their blood flowed in the streets. the protesters want the right to express their opinion and can we blame them? of course not! only in dictatorships is the street feared. in healthy, open societies, there is room for debate, discussion and dialogue. for the dozens who died during the protests, there is little we can do. but the many arrests require international action, commissioner. what fate awaits them? we can only fear the worst. commissioner, demand fair treatment of the prisoners, prevent them from becoming martyrs and press for an inquiry into the circumstances in which so many young iranians lost their lives.
madam president, while we were here quietly celebrating the new year, young iranians, risking their lives, demonstrated for the fourth night in a row on 31 december in machhad, qom, tehran and other major cities. a wave of protest, perhaps unprecedented in the country since 2009, this time coming mainly from the popular classes, sons and daughters of workers, unemployed, but also pensioners who demand bread, shelter and freedoms, and therefore, basically, who demand a change of regime. the mullahs' response was scathing, bloody: 25 dead, 8,000 arrests and cases of torture followed by death. the european union's response was delayed. five days, you know. it is a long time, and even longer because mrs mogherini has been cautious, even fearful. so my question, commissioner, is simple. on 11 january, mrs mogherini met the iranian foreign minister in brussels to discuss the nuclear agreement, much as you, commissioner, opened our debate on this issue this afternoon. that speaks, i think, to your priorities, but there are dead people, there are thousands of people trapped there, so i'll come back to my question. has mrs mogherini received any guarantees about their fate, and if so, what guarantees? i take this opportunity to conclude with the fate, already mentioned, of the belgian professor mr djalali, who is condemned to death, who is very ill, who is still in prison. i would like to know whether her fate was discussed in the discussions and, if not, whether mrs mogherini intends to do something about it and what.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for example, products that could equally well be used for weapons of mass destruction. we see that the european union is a major producer and also a major exporter of such dual-use goods. it's important that we check that string. that we put strict licensing on the table to address abuse. that is important for our international security, for peace, for the protection of human rights. at the same time, there is also our focus on free trade. what is on the table today is a major step forward. what we're going to do here is a good thing. it is a modernisation of legislation which will enable us to deal more effectively with new threats and at the same time to deal more quickly with new technological developments. i would like to thank very specifically the rapporteur, mr buchner, who has done a great job on this dossier, so that we can control exporters correctly, strictly, but not unnecessarily. so it's a good case. it's also a compromise. there are always things in a compromise that you don't like. i have a few questions about a number of points and their practical feasibility. the first. we also envisage in this proposal for a european regulation an application outside the european union, the so-called extraterritorial effect. there are doubts whether this is practically entirely feasible. the european member states do not really have the instruments to punish these entities, which seems to leave some room for manoeuvre and perhaps rules to be circumvented. the question can be asked whether the previous logic did not also have arguments, a logic whereby you give the licence to the exporter who remains in the european union. the second. as regards practical feasibility: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. that being said, this is a giant step forward. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on that.
mr president, commissioner, while the reflection paper presented by the commission for the chapter on sustainable development was supposed to be a neutral document, the option you have clearly chosen is to continue with an ineffective model, which you certainly want to improve, but which is ineffective nonetheless. a combination of the two approaches, namely the strengthening of dialogue accompanied by sanctions, is a perfectly compatible and, above all, desirable proposal. furthermore, the discussions we have had in the framework of ceta, in which you have committed yourself to reviewing the chapter 'sustainable development', clearly show that this chapter, as provided for in the current trade agreements, does not meet our expectations in terms of respect for social and environmental rights. the european parliament has repeatedly asked the commission to do so, i.e. to provide for sanctioning mechanisms. in its opinion on singapore, the european court of justice also stated that the 'sustainable development' chapter is intended to govern trade between the union and its partners by making the liberalisation of trade conditional on the parties respecting their international obligations in the fields of social protection, workers' protection and the environment. it also added that a party is entitled to terminate or suspend the liberalisation of such trade in the event of a breach by one of the parties of provisions on social, labour and environmental protection. the credibility of the european commission, which is seriously committed to this policy of sustainable development, is therefore at stake. if we want to convince people of our responsibility in this matter ... (the president withdrew the floor)
in writing. the european union is obliged to respect human rights, workers' rights and environmental standards in its trade policy. the inclusion of sustainable development chapters in its trade agreements is therefore a very good development. however, the enforceability of these chapters leaves much to be desired. these cannot be hardened at present, as there is no system of sanctioning in case of non-compliance. the great danger is that it will be reduced to fine words and that good intentions regarding working conditions, respect for environmental standards and human rights will remain dead letters. there is no strong incentive for the eu's trading partners to comply with these provisions. i call on the european commission to adopt binding provisions on human rights, workers' rights and environmental standards. binding provisions, with sanctions if our trading partner violates the provisions. this also requires close monitoring of effective compliance. in this way trade with countries where workers' rights and environmental concerns are being questioned will no longer be tolerated. this chapter will then no longer exist merely formally, but will also be an effective way of strengthening more sustainable trade.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, taoiseach, i think that our european union can learn a lot from ireland. when i say that, i am not talking about the weather forecast, naturally. i am talking about what i call the irish capacity to transform and to reinvent itself, as has happened over the last decades. i think that is exactly what we need in europe today: this capacity to transform ourselves and to reinvent ourselves – and not to destroy ourselves, as some of our colleagues want. thirty years ago, ireland was a very different country. i think only 7% were born abroad. today, that figure is more than 70%. i think that ireland today has become one of the most diverse nations of the european union. the irish economy has successfully integrated migrants from all over the world – from poland, from nigeria. ireland has also become the home country for a number of big companies, such as international it giants. today, ireland is no longer a country of emigration; it has become a destination country and also a country with many pro-europeans – sometimes very critical but always constructive, and that is absolutely key. what i hope to see in this debate is that ireland can show the same european leadership as happened in the past. let me remind you that in 1985/1986 it was garret fitzgerald, your predecessor, who gave the final support to the single european act. that support was crucial, because it was the first time that ireland broke away from the british position and made it possible to push forward the european agenda. it is the single european act that later resulted in the single market, and that is now seen as the biggest european achievement. even margaret thatcher found it the biggest achievement of european politics. the same thing happened in 2004 and 2007. after the enlargement of the european union, it was ireland who championed, in fact, the freedom of movement of all people in the european union, including the polish plumber and the romanian doctor. i hope that ireland continues to have such a commitment to reform the european union now. your voice is critical in this debate. i see four things to do. the first is the new governance for the eurozone. the second is the european defence union. the third is the new european asylum and migration policy. we have to get rid of dublin – not of joyce’s city, naturally, but the dublin regulation on migration. we need to have something completely different, where italy and greece do not bear all the burden. finally, i think we also need a deep democratic reform, with a transnational democracy. i thank you for your support on that important reform, which i hope we can achieve in the coming weeks. lastly – and the president of the commission is right – we need a budget that goes in parallel with this. it is impossible to say to the citizens: ‘look, citizens, you’re right: we need more this and we need more that; we need more european action’ but, at the same time, we do not give the necessary instruments and the necessary budget. finally, president, i think there is a new generation of politicians in europe who are standing up. you need to know one thing. it is the last thing i am going to say, and it is on brexit. whatever stance you take, taoiseach, europe will always be behind you. we know what is at stake in these brexit negotiations. we know how existential it is for you, but know that we will always be behind you. in these negotiations, we are all irish, and you have to know that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it is a real pleasure to welcome the prime minister. taoiseach, you have demonstrated again in your speech the depth of your country’s and your own commitment to the european project. we all got familiar with your name on the occasion of the brexit debate, and ireland is obviously the member state that will be most affected by it – not just for economic reasons but because this is about peace on the island. let me just say this: we are at your side on this. letting violence erupt again in ireland will not just spell disaster for the communities concerned, but it would it would be an arrow through europe’s heart because the european union is, and remains, a peace project. brexit is a challenge we could have avoided, but it should not detract us from those challenges that are existential to the future of europe. allow me, taoiseach, to mention two of them that i find particularly relevant to ireland. first, all societies need to find ways to live within the biophysical constraints that nature sets us. there is simply no way around it. europe has a choice here – either to become leaders in the ecological transition of all societies, thereby becoming solution providers to the rest of the world – or to stick with the past, thereby becoming solution takers from the rest of the world. from a young, entrepreneurial prime minister such as you, i would expect the first option. yet, taoiseach, your government has been sorely lacking ambition on tackling climate change. you said when you became prime minister that climate action would be your first priority. yet it doesn’t really show. this year ireland was ranked as europe’s worst performer in tackling climate change. it is one of only two countries in the eu that will miss its 2020 emission reduction targets. and now your government seeks special deals and exemptions from the quite modest 2030 targets. on a similar line, prime minister, your government opposes the waste reduction bill proposed by the irish greens, which only aims at bringing your country on a par with best practices across europe on the way to a more circular economy. come on, taoiseach, with its abundant resources for renewable energy, ireland has the potential to be a pioneer in green transformation. your country and europe’s prosperity depend on it. you will hardly be surprised by the second topic that i want to raise which is, of course, taxation. if we want our single market and single currency to thrive and to deliver benefits to all and not just the richest, we need to stop this race to the bottom on taxation and on social protection. and you know that ireland often comes to the fore as a tax haven for corporates. of course, you would argue – and i would agree with you – that several member states offer real taxation rates to multinationals that are way lower than the irish nominal 12.5%. and you would say that ireland should be allowed to find ways to make up for geographical disadvantage. i agree with all of this, but surely the alternative cannot be between a one—size—fits—all taxation system that would work for the central big and core european countries to the detriment of everyone else and the no—holds—barred tax competition that we have right now. instead of playing hold—out, instead of fighting european commission decisions in court, i would expect ireland to be at the core of efforts to better cooperate on tax matters in order to give tax justice a chance in europe. it is not just our excessive ecological footprint, but also ballooning inequalities that threaten the very existence of all civilised societies. taoiseach, the european project is about establishing a lasting peace on our continent through shared prosperity on the one hand and, on the other, through anchoring our societies in the values of freedom, democracy and human rights. i am very glad that your government wants to ensure the right of women to control their own bodies. i hope that the upcoming referendum will allow your country to make progress in that direction at a time where we see progress in the other direction in too many parts of europe. taoiseach, if you can deploy the same leadership on ecological transition and on tax justice as the one that you have deployed here, you will have done a lot for the european union. i am sure you can do it. (applause)
the president, the commissioner, the members of the commission, we all know. it is the young, my generation, who have paid the highest price for the crisis. it was and rightly is a top priority of this legislature. europe has really tried to make the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative a success and it has worked. in my country, too. youth unemployment in brussels fell for the 55th consecutive year. but still, youth unemployment at 24% remains far too high. why is that? the economy is going to go into a tipping point. employers are looking for the right talent and my government is also juggling figures on the amazing job creation. the problem, however, is the mismatch. however good our intentions, the real target group - the unemployed young people who are not in education - is still not reached. that is why i support the call for more data and more results-oriented work from the member states. show us where the money goes and deliver quality too. every 24-year-old deserves the chance to have a real, decent job and i am glad that the commission is going to look at that in the future. ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the multiannual budget for the period after 2020 is already about savings. well i tell you plainly: let's not let young people be a thrift store. on the contrary, more resources will be needed, for example for youth employment, erasmus+ and other programmes. the european social pillar is a compass. let us use that compass well towards the future, towards youth. thank you, sir.
i should like to thank the rapporteur for this balanced report. however, it is not a good idea to make the youth employment initiative a permanent eu funding instrument. the causes of youth unemployment vary widely from one member state to another. a uniform approach is therefore impossible. it is more sensible to encourage the member states and the regions to adopt structural policies tailored to their own labour markets. but this initiative is doing just the opposite. it takes away the incentive for the regions concerned to change course. the large-scale eu funding masks the structural problems underlying youth unemployment. i see a clear example of this in belgium. wallonia and the brussels region receive funds from the youth employment initiative. these young people then disappear in training courses and from the unemployment statistics and can bring a good news show to these regions. i regret that these regions are not thus obliged to implement the much needed structural reforms. the youth initiative is just a cheap cover for the bleeding. what a waste of money!
on behalf of the s&d group, when frans timmermans is there, i always take the opportunity to speak in my own language. that's a little annoying for the other commissioner, but he can listen to the interpretation. let me start by saying "thank you, big congratulations". it's about time, but you're doing it. you come up with a strategy around plastic, and i think we're the only major region in the world today that's taking that responsibility. and by doing so, we set the standard for the rest of the world. that's very important! we're going to support you in that. we are also looking particularly forward to the legislative proposals, because soft legislative strategies and awareness-raising are all well and good, but we also need legislation. i am thinking of the working party on single-use plastics, but also of the legislation on port reception facilities. both are very important and parliament will certainly support them. there's also going to be an investigation into a tax on single-use plastics. that is a very important item in many of our member states. our group wants to support that. i think that's a good way to tax plastic. what we do not agree with is the use of this tax as a kind of own revenue for the union, because this is a tax that you do not want to collect, which must go to zero. and when we talk about own income - and we are very much in favour of that - we want to have a stable basis for that. one last point. it is very important that the commission proposes to ensure that all plastic packaging is recyclable by 2030. look at that alongside the wonderful work that our rapporteur simona bonafè and the others have done on the waste package and the circular economy. that's a good foundation. but we're also going to have to make sure that we create a market, that the manufacturers are going to use those recyclable packaging as well. as long as cheap oil is more readily available than recyclable materials, we have a problem. this is why strong initiatives are needed, such as ensuring that products of the future contain a minimum of recyclable materials. but thank you for this initiative!
the strategy is undoubtedly another step towards the circular economy we all want, in which recycling more and better plastics is an important and necessary link. i thank you and congratulate you on the ambition that the commission is showing here. we need to take a firm stand on china's ban on plastic imports to invest more in our own recycling capacity. but of course, just recycling more isn't enough. we also need to invest in waste prevention, in thoughtful product design, in new business models. i also welcome the commission's nuanced position on biodegradable plastics. clear agreements are needed, but we also need to realize that even that kind of plastic is not a salvage solution for marine litter, quite the contrary. the actions announced on microplastics also sound promising. european solutions must, will and can make a real difference here. finally, i call on the commission to speed up the legislative work, but also to take account of tailor-made products and not to limit its activities to consumer packaging. there is certainly room for innovation in the business-to-business market too!
the european parliament is today taking the final step in the process of ratifying the marrakesh treaty. people who are blind, visually impaired or have a reading disability still have very difficult or no access to books and other printed material. the need to make more works and other protected material available in accessible forms such as braille, audio books and large print is great. the text on the table introduces a new compulsory exception to copyright in eu law. this will allow beneficiary persons and organisations to make and distribute accessible format copies of works in the eu and third countries party to the convention. thanks to the marrakesh treaty, more than 30 million people in the eu with visual impairments are finally getting equal access to the printed word. a small step for humanity, a giant leap forward for blind and partially sighted people. thank you, sir.
the evaluation of the trafficking in human beings directive, published in 2016 by the commission, shows that sexual exploitation remains the most widespread purpose of trafficking in europe, followed by labour exploitation. women and girls are the main victims of this and the visit of the socialist and democratic group to sicily in the field of agriculture has given us a glaring example of this modern slavery. of course, sicily is not the only place where this slavery takes place. romanian women are not the only victims in europe either. the networks of nigerian girls in prostitution in brussels are another example. we often talk about sex exploitation, but there is also exploitation by companies, simply because they have an interest in making a short-term profit by paying their workers as little as possible. so what i am asking is that if we are working on the issue of sex exploitation - which is important, of course, in human trafficking - we also need to empower european companies that are exploiting these people today, whether in tomato growing, apple picking or other activities, simply because they want to sell products at lower prices in supermarkets, without any scruples. therefore, commissioner, i think it is important - and it is the commission's responsibility - to ask the member states to enforce this directive, which exists and is not being respected by some of them, but we must also give the member states the means, such as social inspectorates, for example, to monitor labour laws, because it is through labour laws, through labour protection that we will also protect these people, and it is important that companies respect labour protection.
author. madam president, this year again there will be no truce for confessors in chinese courts. on the contrary, i would say. they, as usual, condemned in turn while the world was headed for the party. xie yang and wu gan have just been added to the christmas list of condemned people, a blacklist which included last year's nobel peace prize winner liu xiaobo, who died in detention, as we know, we have talked about it. exactly what we now fear for the good choekyi, who was imprisoned for two years after celebrating the dalai lama's birthday, and is now gravely ill in prison. tashi wangchuk is awaiting his sentence, which is expected to come down any moment now - perhaps up to 15 years in prison - for advocating the use of tibetan in schools. i am thinking, of course, of lee ming-cheh, the taiwanese man we also spoke of last year. tv confessions that are scripted, forced, torture, a near 100 percent conviction rate in chinese courts: this is what xi jinping's china looks like. four years after the "flamboyant" adoption of a reform for a rule of law, the chinese president is tightening the noose around those who try to criticize, to the point of relegating china to the global tailspin in respect for fundamental rights, according to the world justice project ranking. beijing must release these prisoners of conscience. european diplomacy must exert all its efforts to ensure that the regime finally guarantees the fundamental rights of its citizens, rights which are enshrined in the chinese constitution. in short, it is time to see the chinese giant move from a state of law to a state of law.
the n-va is concerned about the human rights situation in china. under president xi jinping, china is turning to the world, but it is sliding ever further into dictatorship. the crackdown on peaceful protest and the persecution of hundreds of courageous protesters are proof of this. the nva delegation regrets this and therefore supports the resolution before it, which strongly condemns the sentences imposed on activists wu gan and lee ming-che, human rights lawyer xie jang and defenders of tibetan identity tashi wangchuk and monk choekyi. economic prosperity must go hand in hand with democratic reforms. we therefore urge xi jinping and his government to release all innocent political prisoners, to respect international human rights conventions and to respect the cultural identity of all peoples. finally, we call on the european institutions and the member states to continue to emphasise human rights in their relations with china and to put pressure on the regime to implement the necessary reforms.
for the ecr group on january 19, 2015, exactly three years ago tomorrow, thousands of congolese students began their courageous protest against the postponement of the presidential elections. president kabila is still on the throne, and unfortunately blood is still flowing in the streets of so many congolese cities, through all sorts of delaying manoeuvres. in late 2017, this bloodshed reached an absolute low point, when a demonstration led by the congolese church was brutally suppressed. particularly tragic, especially since the church has always played a reconciling and upbuilding role. the european condemnation of the violence was appropriate, but it simply did not go far enough. after three tumultuous years in which countless opponents lost their lives, we as the european union cannot look the other way. the fact that european companies and european member states are still signing contracts with kabila for energy supply, infrastructure and military cooperation is cynical and contributes to the political crisis in the congo. i call on the eu to further expand targeted sanctions against the corrupt members of the congolese regime and i urge member states to review their links with kabila.
madam president, the democratic republic of the congo is a country in central africa which should play a vital role: a political role, an economic role, a development role. unfortunately, this giant with clay feet has been a factor of instability in the region for decades. the wars that have been fought there, and which have never really stopped, have caused millions of deaths, millions of displacements, rape, and so on. and all of this for the benefit, quite simply, of natural resource exploiters and kleptocrats. today, the situation is once again very worrying, first and foremost for the congolese people. as you know, president kabila's term expired in 2016 under the constitution. since then, the authorities have repeatedly taken measures to postpone the holding of elections, despite the new year's eve agreement signed in december 2017. it is true that the decision has been made to hold elections on 23 december 2018, that an enrolment is underway and that a number of things, means are now in place. however, the doubt remains, and with good reason: the repression of the recent peaceful protests is unacceptable; the un and fidh reports on the atrocities in kasai call for a response and investigations. the death threats against human rights activists today are reprehensible. the detention of political prisoners, by the hundreds, is intolerable and i can go on and on about what is unacceptable in the democratic republic of congo. the authorities, if they wish to be credible, both to the congolese people and on the international stage, must provide the means for an independent ceni, release political prisoners, bring the perpetrators of violence to justice and guarantee the organisation of free and inclusive elections.
the question is "blue cardboard". i completely agree with you on the issue of redirecting aid and maybe moving towards more humanitarian aid, but you know, the corruption issues in the democratic republic of congo are not done on the back of development aid. the corruption problems we have in congo are produced by international corporations that exploit human resources and line the pockets of congolese kleptocrats. i therefore ask the epp to allow the adoption and support of measures that will force european companies not to be corrupt. i therefore ask you, mr president, what actions is the epp prepared to support in this area?
member of the commission. – madam president, parliament is demonstrating, with this urgency resolution, its keen commitment to addressing the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc). we have been regularly discussing the drc here, every six months since mid-2016, and you have passed resolutions expressing grave concerns, which have unfortunately been growing with time. the international community has been worriedly watching, over the past couple of years, one of the largest countries in africa edging towards collapse due to a compounded political, security, humanitarian and socioeconomic crisis. the council has also been paying attention to the drc. on 11 december 2017, foreign ministers adopted eu conclusions that assess, without any indulgence, the situation in the country and clearly set the strategic course for the months to come. in the meantime, the commission, through its humanitarian aid department echo, is responding to the growing needs of the 13 million congolese affected by the humanitarian crisis, including 4.35 million internally displaced persons and 1.9 million undernourished children. the eu is very aware of the importance of monitoring and reporting on the human rights situation in a country in crisis. it has repeatedly emphasised that human rights monitoring and reporting is a crucial part of the mandate of united nations organisation stabilisation mission in the democratic republic of the congo (monusco) and especially the un’s joint human rights office in kinshasa. the eu promotes regular coverage of drc issues at the un human rights council. we were at the forefront in pushing, at the 35th session of the council in june 2017, for a resolution on the investigation into the events in kasai. the eu has also internalised in eu law the eu—un sanctions regime, targeting perpetrators of human rights abuses in the great lakes region. development aid is carried out through projects which are constantly evaluated and in which funds are set aside for specific purposes. they are currently focusing on food security, health and infrastructure development. eu aid is indeed already focused on supporting the population of the drc. it should be noted that the eu does not provide budget support to the congolese government. having recourse to article 96 of the cotonou agreement would create huge transaction costs for alternative delivery mechanisms. national systems delivering basic social services cannot function on ngo support alone. the impact of eu support to the health system and to rural development benefits the poor, ordinary people of the drc, who should not be victimised. as you know, there are complex and entrenched causes for the chronic fragility in the congo, not least linked to the governance of strategic natural resources. there is, however, international consensus around one issue. elections are needed to end the current political situation, whereby president kabila has stayed one full year beyond the end of his mandate. in that context, the european union has chosen to work closely with the united nations, the african union and other essential partners so as to speak and act as one in this direction. there is now a calendar, with elections planned for 23 december 2018; there is a budget; voter registration has made progress; and there is a wealth of technical support provided to the congo. yet many possible hurdles could still emerge, representing as many occasions to divert the country from this key objective. security threats have recently resurfaced in kasai and with the unprecedented massacre of 15 tanzanian un peace-makers in the east on 7 december. we have to be careful and ensure that, while monusco is empowered to respond and neutralise negative forces, there is no manipulation and no distraction. for elections to be credible, full observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms is also needed, as well as clear confidence—building measures on the part of the congolese authorities. the incidents of 31 december 2017, with the disproportionate use of force by security forces, constitute a sombre development that you rightly stigmatised in the resolution tabled, as did the international community, including the african union. in conclusion, i reiterate the eu’s commitment to contribute to the stabilisation of this crucial country in africa. in order to do so, we shall be ready to use not only dialogue and constructive support but also the sanctions instrument, if and when that proves to be the only effective way to create incentives for an environment conducive to elections.
the migratory pressure in africa will only increase in the coming years and decades. africa's population is growing spectacularly, but economic growth is not keeping pace, and the situation in many regions is fragile and conflictual. many of those affected will also continue to try to get to europe. the democratic republic of congo has the highest number of newly displaced people in the world. last year alone, more than 1.9 million congolese were forced to flee their homes due to escalating violence in kasai and repression by the regime. the additional €28 million in european emergency aid released last year is important for improving living conditions in the camps and saving lives, but it is clearly far from enough. it is clear that the eu must simultaneously take on a greater role in tackling the roots of all this misery: not only in political terms, but also in economic terms. there must be an ambitious aid programme for the most vulnerable areas in africa. we need a real marshall plan for africa. an economic recovery plan, building on the trust fund for africa and creating opportunities and prospects for the affected population.
mr president, i just wanted to support your position. i think you've handled this quite correctly. you know that i am very keen to have contradictory debates and opposing views in this house, and that is quite normal. but when you use personal attacks to degrade the person, as mr czarnecki did, you cross all the lines. i fight the ideas of the pis, i fight the ideas of, for example, the extreme right, but you will never take away my respect for any human person. all the elected representatives here have the same legitimacy and are human beings worthy of respect, and mr czarnecki has not been up to that standard. that is why it is unacceptable.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr draghi, it is a pleasure to see you here. you know, i'm not a big fan of your lax monetary policy. on the contrary, i'm rather critical. i am therefore very pleased that the report we are discussing here today is also critical in several respects. here we are three years later, two trillion euros later, because of your monetary experiment, mr draghi, your quantitative easing, an experiment that we have never seen before on that scale in the european union. and finally, for the first time, there's a vote to stop the experiment. the legitimacy of this is being questioned and the experiment is to be stopped in september. this is very necessary and very important, because if we have too low interest rates for too long, then debts pile up. public and private debt are both in a state of flux and cannot continue to be so. that debt is breaking records, and we've seen the effects of that before in 2008, with the onset of the financial and economic crisis. if you look closely today, you will see that there are also less rosy figures and elements that we can cite. your free money policy has ensured that the very richest have had seven fat years and that the less rich, the middle class, the poorer people have had to bite the dust off. they must realize that their savings are no longer profitable. i ask you, mr draghi, to stop, not in september but today.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, exposing human beings to toxic diesel fumes in a laboratory, and also the monkeys in the united states, already brings us very low. but add to that the fact that the cars in these tests were manipulated, and so the results were manipulated too, and that reminds us, for instance, of the tobacco industry. remember when they in the past paid for so-called independent research to say that there are no hazardous substances in cigarettes? the aim is to undermine the work of legislators such as us, and at the same time mislead consumers. this week, we will establish a special committee on glyphosates – the same story! big multinationals paying for so-called independent research with the sole aim of saying to the public that their products are safe; undermining our work in parliament and making sure that consumers are misled. as long as public authorities, the commission and national member states do not punish that misbehaviour, the car industries, and other industries too, will go on doing this. it is time for the commission – i heard you very clearly, commissioner, and i like the way you speak and i like the words that you use – but we need action, not just condemnation but also action! in our national market surveillance authorities too, we also need to show our teeth. this is leaving millions of fraudulent cars on our roads, more than two years after the ‘dieselgate’ scandal and our committee work in this parliament! in our economy, commissioner, and in our society, no private company, no sector – they may be the largest, they may have a lot of people working there – but none of them should be allowed to act as they do today, as the car industry does today, because then they think they are untouchable and that is absolutely unacceptable!
i am very pleased that, from the end of this year, europeans will be able to go bargain hunting throughout europe without encountering any obstacles because of their location. the new rules we are voting on will make the shopping experience much more enjoyable. the online market will be much wider, with a cheaper supply of goods and services in many cases. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. this will also encourage them to sell in other member states. our companies will therefore be able to benefit from a wider customer base, a win-win situation. the audiovisual sector is not affected by these rules, and fortunately so. this sector plays an important role in shaping our language and culture. unconditional universal access to series or other productions could jeopardise their funding and would in turn have negative effects on cultural diversity.
i am glad that the commission has taken this step. as a shadow reporter on cctb and dac6, fair taxation has been an important part of my work over the past few months. it is no longer possible for honest, hardworking businessmen to pay the price for a system that does not function properly. as the commission has shown, we are missing out on 50 billion euros of revenue a year in vat alone. this is money that should be taken out of the black market and put into critical infrastructure, health care and research. goods, services and capital have long since ceased to stop at the borders of our member states. a solution must therefore be crossborder and based on cooperation through the exchange of information, with the help of the relevant agencies, but also between agencies. it is also an opportunity to simplify existing systems and procedures and thus reduce the administrative burden on our companies. such simplification would be a relief, especially for our smes. finally, whether it is direct or indirect taxation, it is time for everyone to do his fair share. the commission's efforts are certainly a step in the right direction.
president. - i call mr pimenta to speak on behalf of the group of the european people's party. it's still a challenge, of course. the reformed ets is undoubtedly one of the absolute pillars of european climate policy. we can say, contrary to what the previous speaker said, that the interventions are ambitious, but they are also realistic and they are feasible. the aim of the ets is to provide incentives to companies and also the energy sector to produce and consume energy in a sustainable way while avoiding carbon leakage. we all know what carbon leakage is. mr eickhout, there is no point in taking measures to move companies to other regions where there are no measures, as we do. that's totally pointless. a third point: we expect the innovation fund to be deployed rapidly in the current period to support the transition. we are indeed, as the commissioner said, very pleased that the financial support for the innovation fund has been increased at the instigation of parliament. in conclusion, let me warmly thank and congratulate my colleague julie girling and her team for the excellent job they have done in a sometimes challenging context. let me also thank you, commissioner, and your team, the cabinet and administration, for the tremendous work that you have done.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the european carbon market needs to operate better and more efficiently to further stimulate climate-friendly investment. at the same time, we must avoid companies moving out of europe to third countries where climate regulations are less strict, because then we lose twice: we're losing jobs and we're not doing anything for the climate. the european union is taking the lead in the fight against climate change. we can't let winners turn into losers. the agreement is certainly a step forward on this point compared with the original commission proposal, but we think that the protection against carbon leakage should have gone even further. in conclusion: the strong focus on innovation is particularly welcome. a low-carbon europe is achieved not only through a workable system of emission allowances, but also through a clear commitment to innovative solutions to the climate problem in and outside europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, prime minister, i will not go too far in history to praise the european vocation of croatia like my dear friend manfred weber, but i have a few shorter sentences about that. i did campaign in croatia in 2014 together with nino jakovčić, so i have seen in istria in croatia how all these new companies raise the growth that is there since the entry of croatia into the european union. i mostly visited wine estates with him, i have to tell you, but it is impressive what is happening economically in croatia. i will pick and choose two points on the reform of the european union. the first is on the new financial framework. it is clear that it is a crucial thing and i ask one thing of the council, to accept that in the future it cannot be as in the past. this parliament will request a say on the expenditure and on the income. it has to be finished that this is the only parliament worldwide that has no say on the income of the european union. that has to stop now. this is a full parliament and we will have a multiannual financial framework in which both council and parliament, based on proposals from the commission, will be responsible. the second thing is the spitzenkandidat. you were a spitzenkandidat, mr president, and i think you have said exactly what is at stake. the spitzenkandidat is a gain in the democratic process and we cannot lose it. in my opinion, the best way not to lose it is to embed this system in a democratic process. because spitzenkandidaten where there is a backroom deal inside a political party or between political parties – i can tell you – people are not very involved in this. you need to involve the citizens. you need to give them the possibility to vote directly for a spitzenkandidat, not only a spitzenkandidat from their country, but the spitzenkandidaten from other countries, so all europeans have to have this possibility. therefore, i think it is necessary to embed the spitzenkandidaten in transnational lists, the first on the transnational list is the spitzenkandidaten. that is the system and it gives the power to the citizens to vote for him. so there is no contradiction between both concepts. i think, manfred, this parliament has to unite between both concepts and if we do not do it, we risk losing everything in this fight and that we cannot afford in the european union. finally, my third point on the western balkans. we are all in favour, my group is in favour, of the entry of these countries under the conditions set by the commission and, in that respect, i hope that croatia can, again, with their slovenian friends, give a good example, and find a fast—track solution for the border issue as fast as possible, based on the arbitrage that has been made.
prime minister of croatia. – mr president, i have a few remarks on this first round of catch-the-eye. first of all, on the issue of defence, which charles tannock mentioned, i believe that strengthening european defence is very important, given the wider context of the challenges we have when it comes to security. having seen what we have discussed over the past couple of years, one of the first things i did as prime minister was to put through the new national security strategy, a new system of homeland security, and to increase our defence budget. we are in the process of acquiring new jet fighters. i want to be a credible country with capabilities that can increase and be inter-operational with other allies within nato and with partners in the european union. that is why we are participating, with almost 450 croatian military personnel, in various operations across the world, be it with the un, nato or the european union. on the uk’s exit, i think the critical thing is to find what type of future contractual relationship we will forge between the united kingdom and the eu. i think it was walter hallstein who said that association can be membership minus one percent, or cooperation plus one percent: that is a very large span for what we can put into the new contractual relationship. this is a choice. it is a political choice, in a strange situation, when someone is actually about to leave. in my view, that will be critical in the next phase of the negotiations with london. regarding the spitzenkandidat and transnational lists, i have a practical concern. the budget in my country currently for the whole list for the campaign is eur 200 000. if a colleague wants to campaign he has eur 200 000 for the whole length of the campaign. as a candidate, how do you think he will campaign in turku, in braga, in palermo or somewhere on the shores of bourgas in bulgaria? he cannot do it. this is the problem. we should invest a little bit more practical thinking in this: probably increasing the limits of financing, finding ways to ensure that the new system not only underpins the person who is a candidate for the future presidency of the european commission but also gives equal opportunities to someone from what i would call a ‘notorious’ political family or someone from a big country with a strong media presence, or someone from a smaller country. this is my concern and i do not see the answer in the debate so far. as i said, we need to have equal chances in this exercise. in my view, the way it is now being contemplated is not entirely fair. that is why i have very clear reservations at this stage. i am not saying we will not find a solution. when it comes to the multiannual financial framework, you mentioned that i said we needed to find smart approaches. the smartest way is to know what you want, what your political priorities are, and then attach the financial means to those priorities. for a couple of years, i have been following the work of the group of experts led by mr monti – so often eloquently represented by alain lamassoure – on the reform of the own resources system. this is absolutely key if we want to avoid the debates that mr verhofstadt mentioned when we asked if it is the council which decides on income and parliament which decides on expenditure. this is essential. we always debate in the nitty-gritty negotiations and trilogues in a short time in order to achieve a political goal. therefore, finding a balance between research, innovation, the digital economy, youth, jobs, and traditional policy areas, such as regional policy development or agriculture or defence, is always a challenge. i believe that if we understand what the challenges will be in the next decade we can find consensus, especially now when – after the 2016 blues, after the brexit referendum and with the political developments in 2017, especially the enthusiastic approach of president macron of france, and the likely formation of another german government led by chancellor merkel – we have gone, in football terms, from a 0-1 to a 2-1 situation. that gives me hope and optimism for the strength of the european project, including the debate on the financial framework.
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister plenković for being in this house, which is very familiar to him. prime minister plenković, i would like to come back to the security issue which you referred to a few minutes ago. of course, it is an important issue. taking into account the international context, it is very turbulent and you already referred to this, but should we not accelerate our efforts to enhance defence cooperation? you referred to defence fighters but should we not invest more in common defence material, on a common platform, in order to be interoperable and to make the european defence capacity more robust? the advantages are obvious. the synergies are obvious. i think we can assume that citizens support it, so are you ready to support this line and really invest in initiatives in order to accelerate this common european defence initiative?
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today, on the international day against fgm, i am very pleased that we are making our voice heard very loudly here in the european parliament. the voice in the debate here has been very loud and clear. the numbers are mind-boggling: 200 million girls worldwide, but also 180 000 girls a year in europe. so we have to make an effort to stop this. these practices are hallucinatory. i've met victims in africa. i've been to the middle east. i met a girl who thought she was going to a party. but when she got there, she was led to the back room and her clitoris was shaved off with a very bony, dirty razor. infections followed. the scenes are horrible! actually, we can't let this happen in 2018. and we know that a multidisciplinary approach is required. we must focus on prevention and repression, on the approach in african countries, but also here in europe. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. female genital mutilation (fgm), which involves the deliberate injury of the female genital organs without medical reasons, is motivated by cultural, religious or social motives and occurs in young girls up to the age of 15. there are no health benefits. on the contrary, it can cause serious problems. short-term infections, but also sexual problems in later life. according to unicef, some 200 million girls and women worldwide are victims of female genital mutilation. half of these women live in three countries: egypt, ethiopia and indonesia. today is the international day against female genital mutilation. the commission's request for zero tolerance is therefore justified and i fully support the resolution which accompanies it. the resolution calls on the eu and the member states that have not yet signed the istanbul convention on combating gender-based violence to do so. that convention contains grounds for criminalizing vgv. it also calls for the explicit criminalization of the medicalisation of vdv and for the highest standards of protection for asylum seekers applying for asylum on vdv-related grounds, in the context of the reform of the common european asylum system and the revision of the asylum directives, and through the new eu agency for asylum.
i am very pleased that we are today presenting a genuine balkan strategy, that we are offering the countries a perspective, albeit with conditions. we ask them to increase pressure to implement the necessary reforms. and that's a good thing. we are asking for these reforms not only for the stability of our region, but above all for the citizens on the ground. because let's face it, they've been through enough war violence and they deserve a democratic country. but i've heard a lot here today. i heard it here: it's a perspective, it's not really a date. i would like to add an element to the debate. we in europe must also be ready when we go into the next phase of enlargement. we must have brexit done by then. but we also need to reform the union. we should go for a smaller commission. we must move towards abolishing the unanimity rule. so let us have a balkan strategy with a view to possible accession, but let us reform europe to be ready for that.
a new presidency, a new list of priorities. the european perspective that bulgaria wants to offer the western balkans can promote stability, prosperity and security in that region. that in itself is a good thing, provided that all the conditions are meticulously observed. reforms that guarantee democracy, the rule of law and the protection of universal human rights are therefore essential. membership should be the final stage of the road that candidate countries take. and that road is still long, very long. but moreover, is a union which itself has problems with respect for democratic principles ready for further enlargement? if the old europe prefers democratically elected leaders behind bars to in parliament, then the legitimacy to take in new members is lost. and yet that is exactly what is happening in catalonia today. the eu is not really an example of democracy and unconditional respect for fundamental rights and freedoms at the moment. so let's dig deeper before we dream of further expansion.
madam president, commissioner, we are concerned about the situation in turkey. we've heard that many times here tonight. every time we discuss a report in the foreign affairs committee on turkey's progress towards european union membership, it is always a regression report. there is no freedom of the press, but there are human rights violations at the surface. freedom of speech is no more. today we can say very clearly: this turkey cannot join our european union. we must be firm on respect for human rights. we may need to talk about a different kind of partnership. we may have to look at what kind of economic or diplomatic relations we can build with turkey. another aspect that we want and must bring up here today is the afrin offensive. the images and reports we see and read about the events there make it clear that we need to come up with a comprehensive strategy for syria. the human rights violations and attacks are getting used to, so they say. well, this is not getting used to. let us work out a comprehensive strategy to end that conflict and get the peace negotiations moving. thank you.
how do you make it up? operation olive branch. turkish bombers drop their deadly ballast over the kurdish enclave of afrin, on syrian territory. what cynicism. the olive branch is an ancient symbol. from the slow-growing and sturdy olive tree, it stands for peace, hope and reconciliation. not for the kurds of afrin. turkey is targeting the positions of kurdish fighters but is killing civilians, including women and children. that the citizens of afrin are the victims of the olive branch violence is downright outrageous. our greatest ally in the fight against the dark forces of the islamic state is being left to his own devices. it is the kurds who are taking the bullets of radical fundamentalism for us. and now they are getting a stab in the back from their neighbours, but also from the international community. we are cowards, hypocrites and hypocrites. we bake sweet rolls and make shady deals with ankara and in return, give their killers free rein. colleagues, we are not worthy of the friendship of the kurdish people.
in writing. with daesh almost driven out of syria, we are at a crucial moment for peace and reconstruction in the country. all the energy of the international players must now be directed towards the geneva peace process, and not towards waging wars which undermine this process. i therefore welcome the statement by the high representative against the turkish attack on afrin. but our actions must not be limited to a strong statement here and there. i call on the high representative and the member states to take a more active role as mediators in the conflict. the eu is investing millions of euros in humanitarian aid and in the reception of refugees in the region. but what's the point of that as long as the attacks continue? everything that is rebuilt is destroyed again, and millions of refugees and displaced persons are trapped in precarious situations. several citizens wrote to me with their concerns. they fear a new, prolonged escalation of violence and for the future of the syrian kurds and democracy. their eyes are on the eu. let us take up that glove and use all the necessary diplomatic means to reach a robust and inclusive peace agreement.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteurs for their work, for their wisdom and for their patience in this long discussion. you may remember the former president of the european people’s party who was my predecessor as prime minister of belgium and who was, i can say quite easily, a very dedicated european, wilfried martens. wilfried martens was a true believer in and defender of transnational lists and he understood what was at stake: he understood that without a strong link between the citizens and europe, eurosceptics and populists would in the end always win the game. and he understood that transnational lists will not alienate the citizen: quite the contrary. why? because, in the proposal that you have before you, people will have two votes. one vote is for a national candidate, for a national list, to keep the link between the citizen and his or her mep; and a second vote is for transnational candidates, to strengthen the link between the citizen and the european union. in my view, this is the only way to create what i call a european demos – which cannot arrive by accident, or spontaneously of itself – and i think it is also needed to make the spitzenkandidaten process really democratic. today the spitzenkandidaten process is still undemocratic and non-transparent, a backroom deal within political parties or between political parties. what spitzenkandidaten alone will not deliver, and what transnational lists will deliver because they complement the spitzenkandidaten process, it is that it becomes a democratic process. it will be the people, the citizens, who will decide on the spitzenkandidaten and the president of the commission. i have not heard any serious arguments against it. people say federal states don’t have it: wrong! federal states want it. my country, belgium, is a federal state and many want a federal constituency. it is separatists who make war against it. a second example is the united states of america: a federal state. it’s because there is no single constituency that it is mr trump who is president and not hilary clinton, who received three million votes more than donald trump. secondly, another argument i hear is that transnational lists are good for populists. i have to tell you that is also wrong. you could argue that democracy is only good for populists, so let’s abolish democracy and let’s abolish elections. i can tell you one thing: that’s nonsense. you have to beat the populists, not to fear them, and to do that you need transnational lists. the third argument, that transnational lists are only good for big member states, is also wrong. no political party can afford to participate in elections without putting all the countries on the transnational list. what counts is not size, mr rangel, what counts is the vision, the passion, the commitment of all of us. that is what counts. and let us be honest about big member states. our colleagues from spain, poland, france, italy and germany today need at least double the number of votes received by us representatives of small and medium-sized member states, but i nevertheless tabled, together with pascal, an amendment to ensure that small and medium-sized member states will be represented on the list. i am concluding. i know you’re a very tough president, mr wieland. let’s not waste this historic opportunity. brexit will never come back. never again will we see half of the member states in favour of this european constituency. and finally, mr president, altiero spinelli, the father of this european parliament, would turn in his grave if we missed this unique opportunity. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are charged with defending the general european interest. however, each of us is elected in his national or even regional constituency, which may lead us to put national or regional interests ahead of the general interest. to take a concrete example, our common currency, the euro, needs strong financial solidarity mechanisms between states to be viable, which obviously cannot be achieved without responsible management of public affairs and public expenditure. it is very easy today for a german candidate to defend responsibility in the german constituency, just as it is very easy for a greek candidate to defend solidarity in the greek constituency. the reverse is much more difficult, but this is what candidates who will be running at european level will have to do. they will have to formulate and defend a project that can speak and convince not only in one country of the union, but throughout the union. this is the condition for a genuine democratic debate in europe. the departure of the british elected representatives is an opportunity to give the debate this truly european dimension without removing seats at national level, since transnational seats are in addition to national seats and do not replace them. ladies and gentlemen, five years ago we also introduced the idea of 'leading candidates', the spitzenkandidaten. let us dare to innovate, once again, with this transnational constituency. these two swallows will not make the european democratic spring, but i am convinced that they will make a major contribution to it.
mr president, i find it incomprehensible that we are having this discussion here today. the british are leaving the european union. a smaller union therefore also means a smaller european parliament. it's as simple as that. but no, apparently 27 of those seats should go to a transnational electoral list anyway. if we were to remove all the seats, we would save 30 million euros in tax money a year. thirty million euros that we can spend on jobs, security and tackling migration. i am also hearing it said that the european electoral roll would bring europe closer to the citizens. i have my doubts about that. people now hardly know who is on their own electoral rolls, let alone whether they would vote for a frenchman, a bulgarian or an estonian. i would like to conclude by saying a few words to my colleague guy verhofstadt. i hear him say that belgium would like a federal constituency, but that only the separatists are against it. well, koen geens of cd&v hardly a separatist is not fond of the idea either. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for your question. this is about the whole system of degressive proportionality. i think we can apply a correction mechanism to that perfectly, assuming the current number minus the 73 seats. we can look at that number again to correct the errors in the degressive proportionality in that way. but i don't think we should use the british seats for that.
"blue card" question. what is it? madam president, i have heard very few substantive arguments from the opponents here today as to why they are against these transnational lists. all i hear is, "i'm not a cop. there may be fraud, the voter is not involved. i think that the voter is just more involved in these transnational lists. the arguments you have put forward are equally valid. let us be honest, if we are to do our job properly in this parliament and find genuine european solutions to european challenges, we need a european constituency. you're afraid of change. fear is a bad counselor, my father taught me. let us take our work seriously and go for those transnational lists.
in writing. in the run-up to the 2019 european elections, i support this proposal to create transnational european lists which, in practice, should allow citizens to vote, alongside meps elected on national lists, for the same meps across europe. in my vision of europe, which combines federalism and realism, i believe that the establishment of these single constituencies will help to create a stronger link with the european citizen and, in this sense, will promote more european democracy. these transnational lists will make it possible to better 'export' 'europe', to have more debate and, i hope, to strengthen the sense of european belonging. finally, they will make it possible to give the european elections a genuinely european character. the problem with european elections beyond the low turnout rates is that they are the sum of national electoral laws. having transnational lists that transcend geographical divisions will give these elections a true european dimension, beyond the borders of the member states. the creation of the single constituencies must, however, be part of a much wider project and be followed by other measures that will help to revive the european project, which, more than ever, needs a new breath.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, from piketty to the oecd, the imf and oxfam, the reports are multiplying and all converging: income and wealth inequalities are on the rise again. just imagine, last year, the richest 1 percent of the population siphoned off 82 percent of the wealth created. eighty-two percent of the time! and this is not a product of chance or some law of nature, it is the product of political choices. the need to make labour markets more flexible, to put public services and social protection under pressure, to relax any legislation that would weaken or handicap our businesses, even when it comes to protecting health or the environment, is fashionable, with the aim of improving public finances and achieving greater economic efficiency. retirement is delayed, and young people are having trouble finding work. we need to reduce unemployment benefits, whereas in some parts of the european union, for a job offer, you have dozens and dozens of applicants. rest assured, good people, growth is back and jobs with it. but the problem is that this job is precarious. he is getting less and less well paid, while the capitalists are getting a bigger and bigger piece of the pie. we are led to believe that making the rich richer and the multinationals more powerful is good for everyone. well, ladies and gentlemen, trickle-down economics exists, and it defies the laws of gravity, because money goes from poor to rich. all this has very concrete consequences, of course, because in our rich european union, a quarter of our citizens, including millions who have jobs, are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, to the point where some of them have to choose between eating and taking care of themselves, to the point of dying on the streets of our cities. mrs thyssen, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that the european pillar of social rights has come into being. however, if we are to reverse the curve of inequality and make this pillar something more than a moral alibi, we must not only make it as binding as the european budgetary rules, but also definitively change the direction of our economic policies so that they are put at the service of the greatest number of our citizens.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to start by quoting the work of richard wilkinson, a british researcher who has done groundbreaking work on inequality. in fact, it can be summed up as follows: societies with deep inequality are societies that are very difficult to live in. conversely, a society with low inequality and high equality is a society where everyone is happy. everyone is very important. it's not just about the poor. everyone in society is better off when there is less inequality. what's perhaps important to stress: the european union is a democratic country, and it is a democratic country. that actually makes sense. people who all work together to build a society and all contribute to it in their own way but are very unfairly rewarded for it feel that it is very unfair. a democracy - we all know that - is much more than this parliament or the rule of law. it's a means to an end. in other words, to ensure that everyone can live together freely and happily, and that can be done in a society with less inequality. that is essential. the commission has been very active lately in the field of the rule of law, with our full support. think of what we're doing in poland. think about what we're doing in hungary. that's what's important. that part of democracy is being defended. the question is: will we please defend that other part of democracy with equal fire? my colleagues have already spoken about the social pillar and fair taxation. but let's be very clear. it's about a challenge that is much broader than tackling poverty, as important as that is. it is about an approach that ensures that our european democracy has a future.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that i have raised the problems in romania. there was the attempt by the socialist government to thwart fraud investigations for its own political gain. i also explained here why romania cannot yet join the schengen area. today i'm here to speak to entrepreneurs and investors in romania. the reform of the company law is going in the wrong direction, because state-owned companies are now allowed to include politicians in their board of directors. at the same time, these companies are fully exempted from the transparency rules. the door is being opened wide for corruption and self-service by friendly politicians, in line with previous absurd amendments to the law, so that the elite can enrich themselves at the expense of these companies and romanian society. this is to deter foreign investors. i'm glad we can discuss this today. i am still waiting for a parliamentary debate on spain's violation of european values and the aggression against the catalan people and their elected leaders.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate our excellent colleague, mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on the quality of his work and his tenacity in the negotiations. it is clear, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that the migratory pressure on the countries of the union is a major challenge for our future. everyone is aware of the tensions this is already causing between the countries of the union and the political risks for the future of our democracies, which are already appearing here and there, on the occasion of elections. the management of migration flows is therefore a political priority, both for the construction of europe itself and for the health of our democracy. it is from this main point of view that i and my group want to support the proposal for a decision which aims to enable the eib to extend its external lending mandate quantitatively and qualitatively. in practical terms, this means a number of advances which i would like to welcome. first, a fourth major horizontal objective of addressing the root causes of migration is integrated into the eib's external lending mandate. second, the ceiling for financing operations is raised to eur 32.3 billion, with the understanding that eur 1.4 billion could be allocated to public sector projects for refugees and host communities and eur 2.3 billion, under a private sector lending mandate, could be allocated to projects addressing the root causes of migration. of course, these amounts are modest, even if they are part of the broader framework of an external investment strategy. but at a time when africa's population is exploding, when the effects of global warming are being felt, when china is taking a share of africa's wealth for its own benefit, we cannot resign ourselves to the fact that the outcasts of this continent have no choice but to go into exile in europe. the democratic future of europe and the stability of our continent are largely at stake in africa. we must be aware of this and take appropriate measures.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there are clearly a great many studies. and there are as many opinions about daylight saving time as there are about winter time. i especially remember that there are fewer accidents on the road because of daylight saving time. that sounds like a strong argument to me. of course, there would be some dark sides. what we propose in the alternative resolution - a very moderate text - is that the european commission should calmly weigh the pros and cons on the basis of the scientific input. it doesn't have to happen overnight. a lot of research has already been done, but in a number of member states and a number of regions. of course, we can only take such a decision if such an investigation is carried out throughout the european union. we are confident that such a thorough investigation will provide us with the information we need to proceed. we expect the european commission to come forward with a concrete proposal. the matter is not urgent either. there is a lot of work to be done in the coming months, and we can and must concentrate on that.
madam president, madam commissioner, no one here today is denying that there are inconveniences and disadvantages to the changeover from summer to winter time. but as the commissioner said, perhaps the benefits of the programme will outweigh the costs. because imagine if we abolished daylight saving time. we'll have an hour less daylight for seven months. no more summer nights with friends on a terrace or in your garden, no more biking or jogging with the kids. as a result: reduced quality of life. suppose we were to say: we're going to abolish winter time. well, that's not an option. because that means that for five months, it's going to be finished an hour later in the morning and the kids have to cycle to school in the dark. very unsafe. if i put it all together, i'd say: let's use common sense. i think the current system should be maintained.
the european parliament has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism. the latest exploit of this kremlin-installed despot is the arrest of titiev, the director of memorial, an organisation which was awarded the sakharov prize in this parliament in 2009. as head of memorial in chechnya and the courageous successor to the murdered natalya estemirova, titiev has long been a thorn in kadyrov's side. but under constant threat, titiev continued to work daily for democracy, human rights and a better future for the chechens - something he is now buying with his freedom. titiev, ladies and gentlemen, is an example for us all and his arrest is also very moving. i call on the commissioner, the high representative and all heads of state or government to publicly express their outrage, demand his release and increase pressure on the russian federation. we cannot allow a key partner like memorial to be expelled from chechnya.
in writing. since 2014, 2,116 people have been executed by the regime of general abdul fatah al-sisi, 891 people are still awaiting execution. the human rights situation in egypt is very bad. torture, inhuman treatment and executions of minors are just some of the techniques used by the egyptian government to control tensions in the country. terror, riots and crime are keeping egypt in a tight grip. the n-va is not, however, allowed to apply the death penalty and to ignore fundamental human rights under any circumstances. we are therefore concerned about this situation and support the present resolution, which strongly condemns these practices. we will continue to oppose the death penalty and call on the egyptian government to fulfil all its human rights obligations.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, firstly, mr dalton apologises that he is unable to be here to speak on this report himself. this regulation is an important step to close loopholes and improve cooperation between member states in the fight against criminality. the efficient exchange of information on previous criminal convictions in the eu member states is vital, in order to ensure trust, confidence and mutual recognition in the area of judicial cooperation. it is also only right that there is equality in the exchange of information on convictions of eu nationals and third-country nationals. today, under the current european criminal records information system (ecris), we identify previous criminal convictions in the eu for eu nationals but not for third-country nationals. our report closes this gap. the report had wide support in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) precisely because it provides a fair balance between protecting the rights of individuals and ensuring that past criminal convictions are correctly attributed. it is about ensuring that judicial authorities and law enforcement agencies have a complete picture in order to carry out their work. as an instrument it offers clear safeguards and protection. it is only for convictions handed out by eu member states, and it can be accessed only under certain very specific circumstances. a robust and secure system for sharing conviction information with clear safeguards is needed, and this is what the libe committee has proposed.
for the greens/efa group mr president, a seat worthy of the middle ages. thousands of sick, wounded, literally starving children on the smoking rubble of a zone that was constantly shelled. a hell on earth that shames us. eastern ghouta, the orchard of damascus, became his graveyard. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all those who have been killed, including the hostages, and for the immediate release of all those who have been held hostage. the international community is hardly worthy of the name. it is only seeing its inability to bend the foreign godfathers, those who fan the flames of conflict and disregard the rule of law and the boundaries. i'm not sure. assad must be trembling with fear, comfortably seated in the 35,000 square meters of his presidential palace, just a few kilometers from the hospitals bombed by his army, turned into morgues in which hundreds of wounded people are crammed. in this bloody conflict, ladies and gentlemen, the european union seems powerless, tragically powerless. it seems inaudible in new york and geneva, it seems obliterated in the face of moscow, tehran and ankara. she is absent from the astana talks. the european union must do more, much more. it must do more towards russia, which, as you know, calls the testimony of the besieged 'mass psychosis'. putin, the great puppet master, finds himself overwhelmed by his creature, assad. it is in his interest to find a political solution to this cemetery with ever-widening alleys. europe must also do more with regard to iran. if it wants to engage in a constructive relationship with the european union, we expect it to use its very considerable influence over the assad regime to stop the massacre. it is in the interest of all, including iranians, in a logic of openness. the european union must also do more against erdoğan who has unleashed his army, largely equipped by us, against the kurds from syria to afrin. finally, europe must continue to make it clear, both publicly and privately, that war after war will not solve anything and that only a political solution can put an end to the syrian tragedy. europe must finally give a dignified welcome to the thousands of people fleeing these terrible acts of violence who are knocking on our doors.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all we have to thank mr kamall for all the recommendations he is giving for the next budget, in which britain will no longer be involved. thank you mr kamall. secondly, i think we have to pay you, mr president, a double salary in february because you have taken over the role of mr tusk today and that is significant because you, mr timmermans, spoke of the idea of ‘one hat’ in the european union, and we have proved that it is possible for the commission to double-hat for the council. the only other thing, maybe, is that you can go over to the other side once, and then come back. but i will not go over the whole discussion that you had in that informal council about spitzenkandidaten and transnational lists. i have already said what i think about that, namely that you are making an enormous strategic mistake. you are endangering the spitzenkandidat concept by not embedding it in a democratic process in a transnational list. the reality is that the spitzenkandidat continues to be a toy of political parties and again between the council on the one hand and parliament on the other, but there is no legitimacy on the democratic front. transnational lists provide precisely that – putting the spitzenkandidat concept into a democratic process so it is our people who decide who is elected, and then the european council could no longer object to the outcome of such an election. but okay: rome was not built, as you know mr president, in a day, and the same is true of transnational democracy. we will come back to this in 2024. on the issue of the budget, i have been involved three times in the adoption of the multiannual financial framework (mff), twice as a member of the council and once as a member of the european parliament, and my fear is very simple, mr timmermans: that it will be business as usual. it will be a budget for seven years in which the next parliament will have no say – no say in five years! secondly, i fear it will be again a list of 50-60 rebates, exceptions, earmarkings, and exceptional monies to buy the support of all the member states, and 80% of it will be money paid by the member states going back to the member states, and not going to the new priorities that we have – border management, innovation, migration, defence and things like that. so my appeal to all the political groups represented here is: let’s break the cycle of this european budget. let’s make an agreement, together with the commission, on the priorities. secondly, on conditionality: will we continue to hear, for example, that mr orban is misusing european money to build a football stadium in his town, or to make his friends and family multimillionaires on the basis of european money? no! let us establish conditionality: if you don’t accept the values, you don’t need our money. that must be the principle. and thirdly, on the issue of our responsibility. this is the only parliament, colleagues, which has no say about income: the only one worldwide which has nothing to say about revenue. that has to change, and that means article 311 of the treaty, once there is a change to the treaty, will need to incorporate co-decision by the european parliament on income. my plea to you – and it is more important for me than the period of five years or of seven years – is that, for once, we have can cohesion in this parliament, unity in this parliament, on our refusal ever to accept an mff without co-decision by parliament on the issue of revenue. that said, if we do not decide before the next election, it will not be the fault of this parliament. i’m pretty sure that the european council will not be capable of reaching agreement on the next mff before the elections.
mr president, commissioner, with an annual trade surplus of around eur 10 billion, or 8% of total european agri-food exports, the spirit drinks sector is one of the most important sectors in this field and generates around 1 million jobs. until now, regulation (ec) no 110/2008 established a regulatory framework for these spirit drinks which has generally satisfied the professionals in the sector. the overall modernisation of this legislation is therefore at the heart of our concerns. i welcome the fact that article 43 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union has been introduced as a legal basis, thus providing an agricultural anchorage for this legislation. indeed, spirits represent an important outlet for agricultural production in the european union, both in qualitative and quantitative terms. in addition, the alcohol used in the production of spirit drinks must be of agricultural origin. i conclude by saying that it is crucial that consumers can be legitimately sure, with confidence, that within the union, any beverage labelled as vodka, whiskey or rum is the product they expect.
member of the commission. – madam president, the report and this evening’s discussion have clearly showed that there is significant interest here in parliament and broad support for the collective efforts that are being made to ensure a healthy apiculture sector in the european union. it is also true to say that the importance of the sector is widely recognised and the value of the support already available under the cap is appreciated. everybody believes that we should do more, and perhaps we can do more. it is worth noting that the budget in 2014 was doubled over the previous programming period, so there is already a recognition in the 2014-2020 programmes of the increasing importance of honey in the agricultural industry. while i cannot pre-empt what is going to happen in the next budget, it is certainly safe to say that the members here that have spoken will be keeping a close eye on the financial programmes for the post-2020 period. a number of members expressed their concern at the use of neonicotinoids and referenced the updated risk assessments in relation to three particular neonicotinoids which efsa has published today. today’s conclusions will now be shared with the commission and the member states, and i am sure that my colleague who is the relevant commissioner in this area, commissioner andriukaitis, will be taking note on, and a close interest in, this report. today’s report does not make any reference in terms of a possible ban. the commission and the member states will now have to consider whether or not to introduce possible amendments to the current restrictions on the use of these pesticides. i noted what mr agnew said in relation to the banning of some of these neonicotinoids in respect of sugar beet, and i agree with his analysis. he has certainly indicated very clearly what i believe to be the case in relation to sugar beet and the possible exemptions in relation to the application of neonicotinoids in relation to sugar beet. i think it is also worth noting as well that this parliament voted in very substantial numbers to approve a proposal from the commission in relation to the banning in ecological focus areas of the use of pesticides, and this has made a major impact – a positive impact – in relation to the application of this new rule, in my view, in 2018 in terms of what will happen where more than 10% of the total arable area of the european union will now have a ban on pesticides in these areas. i think this is a major step forward for which this house can be proud in terms of the vote that it expressed in 2017. so in conclusion, i again want to reiterate my appreciation to mr erdős for his report. i think it has a sound basis for working together in order to improve the supports in the various ways that i have outlined in my initial contribution to the apiculture sector.
in writing. bees play a vital role in the pollination of trees and plants. but now their colonies are threatened. action is needed to reduce bee mortality, including by banning pesticides that are harmful to bee health. developing a european action plan to protect bees, which would improve the resilience of colonies to mites and other sources of destruction, is a minimum. the commission has already proposed a ban on the most harmful pesticides, including neonicotinoids. europe must do everything possible to avoid the environmental disaster that could result from the disappearance of bees. i therefore invite you to support the amendments calling on the commission and the member states to put in place measures to strengthen the legal protection and financial support for honeybee ecotypes throughout the european union, including through the establishment of legally protected conservation areas for endemic honeybees, and calling on the commission to urgently propose legislation to ban the production, sale and use of all neonicotinoid pesticides throughout the union, without any possible derogation, in order to protect honeybee populations.
- i'm the reporter. thank you, mr president. it's early in the morning. i'm a good sleeper, and i'm lucky that way. i sleep reasonably well, but there are people who sleep less well, who worry at night because they feel insecure, including about their future, and who wonder if their savings are safe. it is our job to take those concerns seriously, to address them, and to remedy them where necessary. the people have not forgotten the deep wounds caused by the euro crisis, the danger to their savings. we all said at the time: this can never happen again. that is the question we are dealing with in this report today. did we keep our word? this will never happen again? have we developed rules that have made our banking system more robust, made it more resilient when banks fail? let's start with the honest answer: yes, we did. the system has become more robust and more robust because during and after that financial crisis we also made the honest and correct analysis that there were too few rules, allowing bankers to build up too much risk. we've dealt with that. we've put more rules on the table and we've implemented them. second, we also reversed the logic. it used to be that big shareholders, big bondholders of banks, would walk away with the profits when things were going well, but the losses would trickle down to the taxpayer when things went wrong. we have reversed that logic. what makes this report special is that we have not only seen the rules, but we have also seen the application of the rules, for the first time in the european union and in a number of different countries, with varying degrees of success. we have seen what has happened in latvia this weekend, but last year we saw the cases in spain and italy, where the spirit of the rules has been respected a little more in one case than in the other. i think that in italy, for example, we have seen a more creative interpretation of the banking rules. i think that is the european disease, ladies and gentlemen. we have better rules, but we don't always follow them. we're making sure that extra measures are taken, but if there are backdoors, they're not completely closed. i think we should start with that, with finally doing what we agreed to. that we would also effectively apply the rules on the table. but no, you see that here in the european debate there is a kind of idea circulating that by definition the easiest way to solve problems is to start to unite them, to start to disperse them. i'm a father of three young children. when our daughter suzanne does something wrong, i'll tell her, and then she'll have to pay for it. if i were to raise my children not in flemish but in european terms, i would have to address not only her but also her brothers, tuur and cas, who have done nothing wrong. that's kind of the logic that you also see in the banking system, that we have to be in solidarity, that member states that haven't done anything wrong are by definition asked to be in solidarity with member states that are doing wrong. i don't think that's right. i think we should first ask those member states to take responsibility for putting their accounts in order before we start to consolidate. that is why, in all honesty, i sometimes get a little nervous when i see dossiers on the european table, for example the european deposit and guarantee fund. today there are national funds which are empowered to take action when people's savings of up to 100 000 euros could be jeopardised. europe, the european commission in particular, is now saying that these national pools are too small, that we should replace them with one big european pot, which would make banks and savers here in northern europe guarantors for savers in southern europe. i think we should be careful with this. i think it is a good system if we pool risks, but only if the member states first limit their own risks. there is still a lot of work to be done in this area, particularly in southern europe.
- i'm the reporter. thank you, mr president. i would like to thank my colleagues, especially the shadow rapporteurs, for the excellent cooperation and the interesting debate. i think it's interesting that pretty much everyone we've heard in this room says, yes, there's been a lot of work done, good work, but there's also a lot of work left to do. so we have some business to attend to. in this respect, it has also become a rather critical report, with some suggestions for future discussions. if you ask me personally what the focus should be on now, i see four points myself. one: i think we should tighten up our state aid rules. we learned that from the italian bank bailouts. two , you 're not . we need to work more on the supervisory side. we have seen recently - and this debate has repeatedly referred to this - what has happened in latvia. three , please . we need more transparency. there is still a great deal of work to be done in this area too. and finally, four, and that's the most important thing: the rules must be tightened up and not relaxed. in this context, i am looking with more than any interest at what is happening in italy, for example. there are elections this weekend and almost every prominent italian politician is calling for a loosening of banking rules. that is not the way we should go. the direction we must take is to choose responsibility first and solidarity second. i also hear the commissioner talking about risk sharing and risk reduction, risk sharing and risk mitigation. that's right, but it's also wrong. it should be the other way around. in this parliament we should first talk about risk reduction and then about risk sharing. first we talk about responsibility, then we talk about solidarity.
on behalf of the ppe group thank you, mr president. good morning, colleagues. how are you? leaks like the panama and paradise papers keep public outrage burning. and we need to do that, because with public pressure, we can bring about political action. i think this directive is a really good example of that. the paradise papers in particular have shown the importance of intermediaries in tax evasion. it is these specialists who sell the most optimal tax loopholes to their clients, so to speak. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxation of the value of goods and services is not distorted. an sme in west flanders simply cannot afford the services of such a specialised consultant. this is beyond competition, this is just unfair. that is why this report is very balanced, and i think that is important. a good example of this is the reporting requirement we require for new and old structures with a possible odour. but at the same time, we can't let this become a manhunt. the exception of excluding old structures which are no longer actively used from this obligation to notify is therefore justifiable. in this parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we have made the clear choice for more fiscal justice and more transparency some time ago. this report fits perfectly into that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of taxation. tax evasion is a multifaceted problem, but the source of it is usually a lack of information. today we vote on the dac 6. it is the latest in a series of proposals to tackle tax evasion and should close the last loopholes in the net. what makes this proposal so different is that it is preventive. instead of preventing tax avoidance, we give member states the opportunity to anticipate it and to protect their revenue from aggressive tax structures. it also ensures that the information they collect will be shared automatically. this cross-border approach will make it much more difficult to abuse the different systems between countries, because it would be naive to think that this problem can be solved entirely at national level. i believe that this proposal will achieve its intended purpose.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would really like to thank my colleague javier nart for his excellent work and the very relevant initiative. gracias javier. collega's, de burgers vragen ons natuurlijk om op te treden tegen terroristen en dus moeten we er ook voor zorgen dat we de financiering van de terroristen droogleggen. daarom denk ik dat de aanbevelingen die we vandaag vanuit het parlement naar de commissie en de commissaris sturen om die financiële stromen echt droog te leggen heel belangrijk zijn. ze zijn heel concreet, mijnheer de commissaris. u heeft ze opgesomd: meer controle op de grote en, zoals de anderen zeggen, de kleine transacties. meer controles op die prepaidkaarten. kijken welke giften er naar het buitenland gaan. wat gebeurt er met de geldstromen naar de moskeeën? we moeten niet onnozel zijn. terroristen hebben financiering nodig als ze terroristische aanslagen willen plegen. vandaar dat ik ook heel blij ben met het inlichtingenplatform rond financiën dat we vandaag vragen om op te richten. maar, collega's, ik wil vandaag nog een stap verder gaan. sedert 2014 zijn er in europa 17 aanslagen gebeurd en als je gewoon kijkt naar de daders, dan zaten van de meeste aanslagen één of meerdere daders in één of meerdere databanken. daarom wil ik van dit moment vandaag gebruikmaken om nog eens een statement te maken. we moeten verder gaan. we moeten gaan naar een echte europese inlichtingendienst.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to express particular thanks to mr nart for the report and thank everyone for today’s important debate. i want to caution against the suggestion that in some way we have a defeated daesh. we have made very welcome progress on the ground against the so-called caliphate, but jihadi extremist terrorism remains active in a number of countries and the terrorist threat – including to us here in europe – remains very high. they are still able to produce and spread poisonous propaganda. we will be announcing some new measures to tackle that aspect of the problem later today. they still have access to significant sources of funding and funds that they have previously raised. that is why the work that you’ve been highlighting in this report to disrupt the sources of revenue of terrorist organisations, to limit their capacity to move and use funds and to support law enforcement in their efforts to detect financial movements of terrorists, in order to identify them and frustrate their plans and tackle the networks, is so important. i agree with those who’ve underlined the importance of making progress on information exchange and information-sharing. we have made some progress, there is still more that needs to be done. with the help and support of this house, i hope that this year we will be able to agree to further strengthen the key law-enforcement and information-sharing networks and databases and make sure that they work together effectively. in particular, we’re going to come forward with further proposals to strengthen the network of financial intelligence units and the ability of law enforcement to work with those units, and i hope you will support that. i agree with those who’ve spoken about the transnational character of the terrorist threat, and that is why we need a common european approach. that approach needs to be rooted in and complementary with actions taken at national level and international cooperation. that’s our objective. that’s the work that we’re pursuing, with your help and support, to continue to build an effective security union to better protect our citizens.
in writing. tackling and preventing terrorist financing is crucial in the fight against terrorism. once the money supply runs dry, it becomes a lot harder for terrorists to carry out their activities. that is why we need to get a better view of these money flows as soon as possible, and to intercept and punish shady transactions. but this can only be achieved if cooperation at european level is also optimized. in concrete terms, the creation of a european intelligence platform on terrorist financing should further improve the exchange of information between national intelligence services. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the new anti-money laundering directive agreed by the eu at the end of last year is already a major step forward in the fight against terrorist financing. the eu is also working to improve the way in which the eu's citizens are treated in the eu. but intelligence services also need to exchange that information efficiently with each other. belgium is already taking the lead in this area, inter alia by banning anonymous prepaid cards. let us share such good practices with other member states to develop an effective and proactive approach at european level.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we discussed this at the conference of presidents last thursday, and these were the positions that were developed. i'll make you a compromise offer. i think that is a matter for the committee on budgetary control. we are going to have the debate in a few moments tonight, and i think that we can ask the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, without having to pass a resolution, to look at the matter after this plenary session, on the basis of the debate we will have had. we could then have a well-informed resolution and - i hope - a large majority on this in april. it can be decided that this will be done either in the framework of the european commission's discharge procedure or in a separate procedure, i.e. by means of a resolution in plenary, but in any case it can be decided to decide, as a plenary, on this subject in april. i would propose that, in the spirit of compromise, so as to bring together a large majority.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i take mr de jong's statement as an agreement on the compromise proposal i made. - you didn't? did i misunderstand you?
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the european project is facing growing defiance and even hostility, what should we expect from the commission, the one we are told is the last hope? it must reconnect with the urgent needs of our societies, it must open up to a diversity of approaches by leaving the economy altogether, it must leave the dogmas of the single-mindedness, whose failure is obvious, it must leave the bunker in which it is shrinking day after day. as maria montessori might have said in her day, there is an urgent need to mobilise the autonomy and initiative of the 33 000 staff of this public service par excellence which the commission must be. the parachuting of captain martin selmayr at their head was a blind act of jean-claude junker. no one questions the intelligence or the ability to work of the person concerned. on the other hand, it is common knowledge that he is first and foremost a party man whose primary objective is to establish his hegemony over european affairs. martin selmayr continues along the path of authoritarian centralisation, of the corporalisation of civil servants, who are invited to obey rather than to be creative, in total disregard of the spirit of collegiality with the aim of having only one line, of seeing only one face: his own.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is a debate about ethics and integrity. you say you followed all the rules, but anyone who studies the file knows that this whole thing stinks. firstly, the appointment of the deputy secretary-general. that procedure was extremely rapid. - i 'm not . january 31st. the external evaluation shall include: february 15th. interview with the advisory committee: february 16th. interview with you and mr juncker: february 20th. appointment as deputy secretary-general: february 21st. a world record! secondly: the vacancy has not been treated fairly. there were no multiple candidates. thirdly: the vacancy has not been filled openly and transparently. fourthly: the appointment of the secretary-general on 21 february was a deus ex machina: the commission has not announced it, it has not put it on the agenda, it has not put any document on the table for the 28 commissioners. this case must be investigated, mr oettinger! and that will be done in the committee on budgetary control! you don't have to pretend we're little children! we want to know what happened and we cannot accept that high officials are being rushed through this way, in such an unfair way, quickly and without any reason!
commissioner oettinger, your explanation shows above all what kind of bubble you are living in. outside, citizens are asking questions about this blitz appointment, and you come with a dry explanation that does not answer any questions. it's not about the person of martin selmayr for me. he is brilliant, no doubt. it's about the way this appointment was orchestrated, the intrigue, the image of backroom politics and cronyism. it is about the operation of the commission as a whole. it shows that the collegiality in the commission is mere appearance. it's about an unhealthy concentration of power and influence. and it's about your communication. you've been following the rules, so to speak, religiously. well, as a child i often listened to the parable of the pharisee who follows the rules of moses to the letter, but is actually the epitome of pride and arrogance. you often see the threats to the european union elsewhere: in russia, with putin, in america, with trump, with populism. but the real threat to the eu project, commissioner, is to be found in you.
mr president, integrity is one of the most valuable commodities in politics. you can have all the qualities you want as a politician, but without integrity, no one believes you, and with those qualities, you're nothing at all. and that is particularly true of the european institutions. and so we must all the more dare to take the lead when it comes to that integrity. i hope that today's debate will demonstrate this. apart from the objective qualities, there's something about the way things happen. i therefore ask the commissioner to confirm formally here and now that not only was the procedure followed correctly, but that the rumours about the departure package of the commissioners, the drivers and so on are completely wrong and therefore out of the blue.
madam president, mrs thyssen, i prefer you to talk about employment rather than trade. it is true that today there are - and ms malmström said it - winners and losers of globalisation and there are winners and losers of this same globalisation. the report aims to ensure that there are more winners and fewer losers from globalisation. there is an important tool that can be used, namely the chapter on sustainable development, which also provides for the application of sanctions. today there is a chapter on sustainable development. it does not work in trade agreements and so we are advocating the introduction of a mandatory chapter with sanctions to ensure that those who do not comply with them are effectively sanctioned. so we are going to have a lot of agreements on the table, agreements being negotiated, agreements being voted on. it is therefore time to act, even though i know that today the european commission - and the epp, for that matter - do not want to hear about sanctions, but then it is simply fine words that will never achieve their objectives.
in writing. this resolution on gender equality in eu trade agreements marks the european parliament's determination to modernise and rethink its trade policies by ensuring everyone's livelihoods, protecting the environment and ecosystems. it also shows its willingness to make article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union a reality rather than a mere wish. however, the union must ask itself whether it is effective in achieving gender equality within the european community itself. although much progress has been made in the last 50 years, much remains to be done in terms of employment and equal pay. although the average wage gap is 16.3%, it should be noted that not all eu countries are fighting wage discrimination with the same vigour. we can take the example of estonia with a difference of 25.3% while it is 5.2% in romania. moreover, the eu average equality index (52.9%) is a good illustration of the efforts we still have to make. it is therefore necessary to step up our work to improve the quality of life of our citizens and to make the union an example to the world.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, we need to make our roads safer. in 2016, as many as 25 670 people died in accidents on our european roads. that figure needs to come down, and well-trained drivers can certainly help. firstly, vocational training must be adapted to the real risks of road traffic. the road lessons must continue to play an essential role in this respect. in doing so, it shall allow member states the necessary flexibility to determine the content of such training. they are best placed to assess the needs of local road traffic. the fraud of fake qualifications and certificates must also be stopped. this is a bad practice which has serious consequences not only for other road users but also for other operators. after all, honest haulers are beating the hell out of cowboys who don't play by the rules. with standardisation, additional controls and improved data exchange, we need to tackle these problems effectively. today the european parliament is already sending a strong signal.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, before coming to brexit and to thank michel barnier, i take this opportunity, jean—claude, to tell you that your former head of cabinet did something yesterday which nobody has ever done before here in this house, namely to unite the whole parliament, the left and the right. but it is not only a joke. maybe you have to sort it out. as you know, i have no problem with martin selmayr. i think he is a very dedicated european and a very competent civil servant. no, the problem that we have is with the way the commission handled this, and so you have to do something about this in some way, because it is bad for europe and bad for the european commission. (applause)but, having said that, we are not the only ones who have to sort things out. the uk also has to do so because, as you have indicated jean—claude, the problem today is that we don’t have a proposal from the uk side on the future relationship with the union. it is still lacking, and what you said is true. there was this mansion house speech by mrs may, but it was mainly repeating the red lines that we have already known about for two years, and i think that in the mansion house speech what the prime minister did was to say, ‘look, we cannot accept the rights of canada and then the obligations of norway’. well i have to tell you that i don’t think that we have ever presented that proposal to the uk side. i think that the uk side has to understand that the opposite is also not possible. you cannot have the rights of norway and then the obligations of canada. that is also not possible. so i think that, after all the speeches we have heard now, it is time that we go beyond what i would call the slogans and the soundbites, which is exactly what we try to do in our resolution. it is a long resolution, with more than 65 paragraphs, in which we present what i would call a concept, a vision and an architecture for the future because that is what is lacking for the moment, and an architectural vision that matches both sides: the red lines of the uk on the one hand with the vision and the principles of the european union on the other side. what we do in the resolution – and can i say to the council that this is a little different – is that we use the treaty for that, namely article 8 and article 217, which say that in the neighbourhood of the european union you have to create a special partnership with your neighbours and to do that we create an association with that country. so our proposal is to start negotiations on an association agreement between the uk and the eu, based on four pillars, one on trade and economics, one on internal security, one on thematic cooperation – for example, research, erasmus, things like that – and, finally, one on external security and defence matters, because i think that is also a very important field of cooperation between both. for every one of these four pillars, what we do in this resolution is give the principles: what are the fields where we can cooperate, what are the different principles we have to apply, and anyway, what is the advantage of our proposal – and i hope that the council will also recognise this in the coming days – is that we create one overall governance structure. it is not an inflation of bilateral arrangements, as we have with switzerland, which will be a good basis for that special partnership, but one overall governance based on association. last week i had the chance to discuss this with david davis and also with the prime minister and i am quite confident that ultimately britain will also see the advantages of such an approach, to have a decent, deep association partnership from both sides. that brings me, finally, to the last paragraphs of our resolution on the rights of all citizens. personally, it is my feeling that we are very near to an agreement with the uk side on citizens’ rights. in fact respecting the rights of the citizens who live there, our eu citizens, and on the opposite side also respecting the rights of uk nationals living on our continent, because this is, in any way, something that we have to achieve. both sides, uk nationals and eu citizens, cannot be the victims of this whole brexit, in- and outcome. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear prime minister may, this is neither the first nor the last time, i am afraid, that i will address you in this hemicycle, where you remain welcome at any time. ever since you became prime minister, i have carefully listened to you on brexit. i do acknowledge your wish to make the best out of the inconvenient situation the referendum has put your country in, but i am still perplexed by the inner contradictions of your government’s positions. indeed, arguing (a) that the united kingdom will leave the single market and customs union; (b) that the united kingdom government will stand by its commitment to the good friday agreement; and (c) that there will be no new regulatory barriers within the united kingdom, is a trilemma that cannot be solved. this has nothing to do with the alleged stubbornness of the eu-27; it has everything to do with the stubbornness of facts. if regulatory divergence is real, it creates a border, and no magical thinking can ever erase it. therefore, one of the three elements has to give, and i cannot imagine the british government giving up on, or taking any risk with, peace in northern ireland. therefore, it has to be (a) or (c). in our view, the only practical solution would be for the uk, or at least northern ireland, to remain fully within the single market and customs union. taking into account your long relationship with us, and the fact that, of course, the uk would then have to apply eu law without being a part of the decision process, it would be fair to establish a privileged channel for your country to express concerns and suggestions. and i agree with you that we have to tailor the transition period to the practical imperatives, rather than align it with any pre-set dates. the end of that transition should also be the cut-off date of any change in the status of citizens, and we do welcome, as guy just did, the very significant progress made over the last few months in that respect. a few issues remain to be tackled, however: the non-reversibility of rights, the rights of european residents with disabilities, the status of future spouses, the rights of third-country nationals, as well as voting rights. our key concern is that no one ends up losing rights. if we want to be creative, we should consider basing citizens’ rights on residence rather than on nationality, which may provide at the same time certainty and simplicity. prime minister, one recognises a stateswoman by her ability not so much by being strong facing the other camp, but by confronting her adversaries in a round camp. now is the time to be bold.
mr president, it is clear that every step we take in these negotiations raises more questions, and on both sides of the channel. this is certainly the case for a group of people who have been underexposed until now, and wrongly so: our fishermen. the fishermen in flanders are having a hard time. they want to make new investments, but they are not getting any support from the union because of european rules. and right now, one of their biggest factors for business security is being called into question. many of them fish on the basis of historical rights and agreements in british waters. and they do so with respect for the environment and with respect for the rules in force. whether we like it or not, fisheries are inevitably part of these negotiations. it is therefore crucial that clear agreements are made in our new relationship with the united kingdom in the field of fisheries. first and foremost, it must be about the conservation of fish stocks. fishermen, even after brexit, will not stop swimming at the border between british and european waters. but the most important point is this. it is important for the safety of the flemish fishermen, as well as the british, that access to each other's waters as it exists today can continue to be guaranteed. and there must be a clear link between future fisheries agreements and the new relationship with the united kingdom, as it will be established through negotiations. if we do not, ladies and gentlemen, - and i apologize for the metaphor - we risk being caught in treacherous waters, and we cannot and must not do that to our fishermen.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr juncker, thank you for coming today, because we missed you very much yesterday in the interesting debate on the appointment of your chief of staff, mr selmayr, as secretary-general of the european commission. i now want to talk about the future of europe, which must be social. we must work towards upward convergence and make the eu a good place to live for everyone. we do this by tackling fraud and social dumping, among other things. this is rightly a priority for the juncker commission, although i do have some critical questions about the way in which the commission intends to achieve this social objective. for example, commissioner thyssen will be presenting her proposal for a european labour authority this afternoon. the new european agency should be the missing piece in the fight against social fraud, according to thyssen. i would stress, however, that we must consider carefully the added value of new organs. do we really need that authority? does it really add something that the member states themselves cannot? why, for example, do we abolish the recently established platform against black labor and replace it with authority? the creation of expensive european institutions should not be an end in itself. nor should the authority seek to take the place of the member states. even if this is not the stated ambition today, i wonder how this european labour authority will continue to grow in its role. its name and its permanent character at least indicate further plans for the future. i think we must be very careful not to allow a surreptitious expansion of powers, whereby the union is gradually eroding the powers of the member states. if today a smokescreen of good intentions is being erected, but the real objective is to set up a european social inspectorate, then i regret this manoeuvre. i repeat that the future of europe must be social, but i add that europe has no future without respect for and for its member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to urge the council to add two specific items to the normal agenda (the western balkans, which president juncker has spoken about). the first is that we need from the council a common reaction from the eu, together with our friends in the uk, on the new aggression by the kremlin on what is still european soil – in britain – and i am referring to the poisoning case of sergei skripal and his daughter. mrs may has said that it is an attack against britain as a country, and i think that a common reaction in the next european council is absolutely needed and counter—measures need to be decided by the eu. my second point, naturally, is that, regarding the type of solidarity that we need still to have with the uk, that we hope also for it to be returned. solidarity from the uk, for example, in our policies towards mr trump: it should absolutely be avoided that, behind the eu’s back, they send somebody to the us to find a special deal on these trade measures. if mr trump finds that there are horrific tariffs from our side, there are also horrific tariffs from their side. he is talking about the 10% on the import of us cars in europe, and we paid only 2.5%. but there are other examples: tariffs on a train carriage, for example, are 14% in the us, or for pickups – and there are a lot of pickups in the us – we have to pay 25% in tariffs. i think what the european council should do now is say that there are two options in this starting of a trade war. either we start a trade war and a war on tariffs by increasing them from both sides, or we do what should be the thing to do: to lower the tariffs in both cases, the tariffs on the european side and the tariffs on the us side, which both sides find so horrific. i hope that that can be the common position. we have no interest in starting a trade war. what we have to offer instead is a trade deal from the european side. in fact, there are many people who were against ttip but now see that if we had got ttip we could have avoided what is happening today. i hope that this measure will be taken – no trade war, but a new trade deal.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to put an end to the long drift in the financing of the union's budget. the treaty is clear: article 311 states that 'the budget of the union shall be financed entirely from own resources, without prejudice to other revenue'. we're a long way from that. today, contributions from national budgets account for almost 70% of the union's revenue. worse, since margaret thatcher's "i want my money back", the drift of the system has produced a monster of opacity. the british rebate gave rise to rebate on rebate, to which over the years have been added multiple and heterogeneous corrections, which it is totally impossible to explain to the citizens. the truth is that the union's budget is no longer the instrument of a common project. it has become a box, heavy to feed for some, interesting to empty for others. the fair return is becoming the alpha and omega of the european budget. this has already been strongly denounced. our colleague, alain lamassoure, has made a brilliant case for this. our colleague, janusz lewandowski, tried to correct it when he was commissioner, and he lost both times. more recently, at the insistence of our assembly, the three institutions have installed the monti group, which has done a remarkable job. our report is in line with the conclusions of this group, which have been insistently endorsed by the representatives appointed by the three institutions. in doing so, we are pursuing a threefold objective: to respect - as i said - the requirements of article 311 of the treaty and to break the back of the logic of just return; the aim is to offset the negative effect of brexit on the budget. it is also a question of giving the union the means to meet the major new challenges we face. we therefore call for the gradual introduction of a new own resources package to protect the budget from the vagaries and fluctuations of a single resource. we advocate the selection in this package of new resources which are directly linked to the creation of european added value in the union's strategic policies. we are calling for the abolition of rebates, of all rebates, of rebates on rebates, of all existing or invented corrections. we are calling for a corresponding reduction in the budgetary contributions of the member states, which are likely to become residual in the coming years. three key points to conclude: by voting for these two reports, you will be affirming the determination of our parliament when it announces that it will not approve the future multiannual financial framework unless it involves the implementation of new own resources to guarantee its financing. we also ask you to approve our request to amend article 311 of the treaty, where it regulates the decisionmaking procedure in the field of own resources. the european parliament, as the budgetary authority alongside the council, cannot be reduced to a mere advisory role in the introduction of own resources. this disregard for parliamentary democracy is unacceptable. finally, parliamentary democracy is also not comfortable with the situation in which the parliament elected after the 2019 elections has no say in the financial framework that will organise, for seven years, the use of the budgetary appropriations it provides. in conclusion, i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, janusz lewandowski, and the cfp rapporteurs, jan olbrycht and isabelle thomas, my colleagues and friends, eider gardiazabal and josé manuel fernandes, and my colleague, helga trüpel, my budget assistant, the secretariat of the committee on budgets, our political advisers and my friend, pierre verkaeren, for their valuable assistance.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can say that europeans rightly expect the european union to work on security, social protection, defence and, of course, climate action. the people expect the european union to protect them and all of us in all these respects and to invest in european projects with a very clear european added value. this will require additional resources. the commission has already proposed that the commission should be able to take a decision on the matter. that is not to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot save wisely. of course we can and of course we must, but we must not fool the people. saving on, for example, the cohesion funds means in our region, in flanders, 250 million less on an annual basis. we can tell people that, too. we can also say that we are the publishers of fake news those who say that europe has its priorities out of order and that we are spending too much money that we should sue them and that the masks can finally fall.
the rapporteur. madam president, i am very pleased with this debate and the general tone of the speeches by a large majority of colleagues, particularly with regard to the need for new own resources. yes, the budget of the european union needs new own resources. yes, we are right to link the acceptance of the multiannual financial framework to the incorporation of new own resources. i am pleased to note, commissioner, that you are in this line. if i remember correctly, you have indicated that the commission was already working on four or five possibilities for new own resources. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. you are right, and if you remain right, you will have the massive support of our parliament. i also want to respond to some of the speeches by colleagues who have strongly warned against an increase in taxes paid by citizens when new own resources are introduced. own resources, ladies and gentlemen, do not necessarily mean additional taxes for citizens. if we reach an agreement tomorrow on the taxation of the big digital companies, which are currently playing with our feet and pay almost no taxes, while they make billions in profits, we will not tax the citizens any more. if we find a way tomorrow to withdraw a few cents from speculative financial transactions, we will not tax the citizens, on the contrary. if the profits of the european central bank are distributed differently tomorrow, the citizens will not be taxed. we have to stop with the fantasies. we need new own resources and we need these new own resources, because we need europe more than ever.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate our colleague mr viotti on his investment, his creativity, his italian style and his sense of compromise. and i want to say to him, "mr. viotti, you are blessed by the gods". i have just heard the commissioner say, if the translation is correct, 'mr viotti, you have put your accents, they are ours' and then i have heard the commissioner say, when he examined the council's proposals, 'they are practically yours'. but this is remarkable, mr. viotti. i will not therefore use this opportunity to repeat what my colleagues and the commissioner have said on the matter of priorities, but i would simply like to stress two things which i think are important at this stage. firstly, young people, all young people, must experience in their own lives that the european union is for them, that it invests in them, that it counts on them. we all agree that the resources available under erasmus+ must be considerably increased and extended to young people from the working class by apprentices. measures to support youth employment need to be assessed and the best performing programmes strengthened. the european solidarity corps must be implemented rapidly to strengthen the values of mutual aid and solidarity among young people. secondly, the popular classes, who have been gradually won over by euroscepticism and populism, must be reconciled with the european idea. europe - and this is a member of the alde group who tells you this - cannot be the affair of the ruling circles, the entrepreneurs, the academic circles and the intellectual middle class alone. the three institutions have recently solemnly proclaimed the european pillar of fundamental rights. to proclaim is good, but to put it into practice is better. we must all look together for ways of adding european value in the social field.
president, mrs mogherini, you yourself said that the situation in syria is dramatic. seven years, four hundred thousand dead. in the last three months alone, more than three thousand children have been killed and 13 million people are in need of humanitarian aid. in addition, after much insistence, we finally adopted the un resolution, but it was not implemented. what's worse, the relief convoys are not getting to the victims. mr schaake has already said it, hospitals are being bombed, ambulances are being bombed. how inhuman can inhumanity really be? sometimes i feel like we're actually getting a little used to seeing those images. children with foam on their lips, mustard gas, bombings, mass destruction on such a horrific scale. and we look at it and we talk. i think it is good that you have said that we must ensure that the ceasefire is respected. we need to make sure there's a no-fly zone. we need to get help to the victims. that's priority number one right now. but i regret to say that i have not heard much talk about the fact that we will have to talk to iran, turkey and russia. if europe is really taking its task seriously, that is what i am asking you to do. take that roll! you are a strong woman! you can do it! and the second point is: we'll have to execute the perpetrators before any tribunal.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, i would first like to thank all those who negotiated this text and helped to bring it to fruition. thank you to tom, bernd, caroline, miguel and bas. as you know, the report on the european semester which we are voting on tomorrow is a step forward in the economic and budgetary policy to be pursued and offers solutions to reduce the growth of socioeconomic inequalities within the same country and to limit the growth of the phenomenon of the working poor or to move towards greater convergence between the member states. i think we can rejoice: the economic situation is improving and a new direction is beginning to emerge. this is obviously what is being asked for in this report and i thank the commission, which has taken up some of our remarks in its country-by-country recommendations. it decided to place greater emphasis on integrating the social rights and environmental pillar into the guidelines of its recommendations. as we know, the european citizen is looking for a stable and healthy socioeconomic climate, the main objective of which must be full employment. europe remains the richest continent in the world, with still considerable development potential, for example in the field of energy transition, but it is essential that our socioeconomic instruments serve the cause of citizens, their jobs and their well-being. workers are confronted daily with the impact of the rapidly changing economy and, as politicians, we must be able to react to these changes, accompany them to avoid them being the first victims. that is why we have included a whole series of points in this report, but i would like to highlight five points which i think are important. the first focuses on the importance and need for increased private and public investment to invest in the real economy. private investment is only at the level of 2008, public investment is still 40% below the level of 2008. we also asked the commission to assess the obstacles to the implementation and depreciation over time of large investment projects, which are often public-private partnerships. without public investment, for example in infrastructure or health care, there is unfortunately no private investment, and if you add these two factors together, there can be no job creation. the second point concerns responsible public finances. we insist that the budgetary guidelines, at national and euro-area level, must ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances and their sound management. this good management must go hand in hand with a rise in wages. this is a proposal that is also supported by ecb president mario draghi, in order to allow workers to have higher purchasing power and thus to revive the economy as a whole, perhaps more effectively than current measures. we then discussed the issue of structural reforms, particularly to strengthen the youth guarantee, the importance of education policies, aid to micro-enterprises and the guarantee of the sustainability of social security systems. in short, everything that makes our continent more valuable to the rest of the world. let us not hide, this added value is in danger and we must not only preserve it, but also intensify it so that europe can once again be a symbol of hope for these millions of young people. the debate is obviously about european tax harmonization, all the work that has already been done by the european parliament and the need to go further towards a common system of fair corporate taxation, and finally the last chapter is about greater integration in the negotiations on the six-month period of the different actors, such as the european parliament, but also the national and/or regional parliaments and the social partners. i really think that ownership of the semester by these different actors is a prerequisite for better implementation of the country-specific recommendations. this is obviously only the first step. other measures are still needed, such as reforming the stability and growth pact to allow states to reinvest in services for citizens and to boost employment. but i think we are on the right track for real economic and social change in europe and i hope that this report will have a large majority tomorrow.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for the opportunity to discuss today the european semester, a topic of particular relevance in these times. the council attaches great importance to the semester, and i am pleased to exchange views with parliament on this subject. if we are to make europe relevant to peoples’ daily lives, we need to achieve good results on growth and jobs, high-quality education, social protection and inclusion, as well as environmental sustainability. we should stress here that it is question of ownership. implementation of structural reforms under the european semester is key for strengthening the resilience and potential growth of member states and the european union as a whole. an agreement on common objectives is therefore important. your reports show that we see these common objectives, and i am glad that we have this opportunity to discuss them with you today and that you have done so recently with national parliaments. to start on a positive note, evidence suggests that europe’s economy is strengthening, employment is growing, investment is recovering and public finances are improving. yet, clearly, many challenges remain. you have identified a number of them in your reports. while the recovery is turning into expansion and is becoming more broad-based, some member states still face major structural challenges. high debt levels and high youth unemployment rates remain a source of concern. also, investment activity has not yet reached the levels we aspire to. boosting investment remains a priority in order to promote a more robust recovery and to secure healthy growth rates in the long run. the extension of the european fund for strategic investment in terms of financial capacity is an important step towards achieving this goal. let us continue to work together to stimulate social investment and human capital, to lift the remaining barriers, and to foster a truly favourable investment climate. furthermore, we need to support growth with smart fiscal policies while paying close attention to the long-term sustainability of our budgets and debts. we also need to implement the necessary structural reforms on our product and labour markets in order to prepare our economies for the challenges ahead. we must provide our young citizens with high-quality education and invest in their skills today. the single market is a great eu asset, and we should join forces for its further development. during the presidency, we plan on making progress on the initiatives of the digital single market strategy, as we think digitalisation is crucial for the competitiveness of the industry in the european union. in view of these challenges, the bulgarian presidency has outlined the digital economy and skills for the future as one of our four priorities. we are committed to contributing to the process of completing the digital single market as a source of growth and competitiveness, while also focusing on the development of skills and competences of the 21st century. as we are now leaving crisis times behind us, the legacy of the crisis remains a concern. some citizens are trapped in a cycle of poverty and social exclusion from which they cannot easily escape. this is an important issue for the presidency. our policy efforts need to be geared toward those with the most disadvantages. they also need to be geared towards those regions and sectors which are undergoing the most difficulties. we need to think of new solutions to new problems whilst seizing the opportunities ahead of us. the collaborative economy represents a huge potential, but it cannot be a reason to backtrack on employment and social rights. employment and social policies need to adapt to the changes in the labour markets, but at the same time workers’ rights should remain protected. environmental policy, together with the greening economy and greening the european semester can contribute in a very significant manner to the broad policy objectives of stimulating sustainable growth and creating jobs. the environmental implementation review initiative will be again on the council’s agenda next year. what is key is to focus on the full implementation of the reforms and to carefully monitor the progress in each member state. we should share our experiences and use best practices examples to learn from each other. only by closely working together to constantly push for reforms, and to continuously support inclusive growth and job creation, will we be successful in creating tangible benefits for every citizen and in rebuilding trust in a strong and prosperous european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is a pleasure to talk this house today, and a special pleasure because it is nice to be able to bring some good news. this year’s semester takes place amid steady economic expansion. europe is seeing the highest growth rate in a decade, investment is picking up, employment is at record levels and the unemployment rate is almost where it was before the crisis. the share of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion fell to the pre-crisis level. public finances are improving and the banking sector is well capitalised. our strategy of investment, structural reforms and responsible policies is working. still, in some member states the legacy of the crisis is visible in the high levels of debt and non-performing loans, and in the unemployment rates. indeed, also, the risk of poverty and social exclusion remain high in some countries and 18 million people are seeking a job. we need to use the current good times to strengthen our economic foundations, improve resilience and support convergence. i take from the two reports on the annual growth survey which we are discussing today, that we share views on the challenges and where the european union and member states should focus their efforts. we must make sure that today’s growth is inclusive and sustainable and that our economies and societies are prepared to harness the opportunities and address the challenges that technology and globalisation bring. so let me thank the two rapporteurs, mr bayet and mr hetman, and the rapporteur for the committee on budgets for these excellent reports. raising productivity is the only way to achieve higher living standards and greater prosperity. for this we need investment, not just in infrastructure but also in human capital, research and innovation, and this requires ensuring an investment-friendly environment including by tackling corruption and ensuring respect for the rule of law. beyond that, only an educated, skilled labour force can seize new opportunities when the labour market changes, and only with proper social security can people make the necessary transitions in the new world of work. human beings is indeed what europe is about. in terms of fiscal policy, we stress the need for the right balance between supporting growth and ensuring sustainable public finances. good times should be used to build buffers and reduce high debts. fair, growth-friendly taxation and well-targeted spending remain crucial. the european semester has proven instrumental for the coordination of policies in the union. we run it in a spirit of cooperation and partnership. we engage in discussions with the national authorities and stakeholders at national and at european level, including the national parliaments and social partners. last week, the commission issued its assessment of the economic and social challenges for 27 member states, including the relevant detailed analysis of macroeconomic imbalances. we see that the imbalances are receding in the context of a favourable economic environment. we de—escalated the macroeconomic imbalances procedures for four countries. slovenia has successfully corrected its imbalances and left the procedure. france and bulgaria were de—escalated from excessive imbalances to imbalances. so was portugal, which still needs to address the high levels of public, private and external debt. we also see that the implementation of country specific recommendations has slightly improved as compared with last may. since 2011, member states have made at least some progress on more than two-thirds of their recommendations. when implementing reforms, member states can count on the support of our structural and investment funds as well as our structural reform support service. last week we adopted the annual work programme for the structural reform support programme to support 24 member states, with more than 140 projects. maybe the most important message of this semester is that economic growth and social progress go hand in hand. this year’s semester is a landmark. our country reports have never been so social. you know that we proclaimed the european pillar of social rights at the social summit a few months ago, and this is our joint political commitment by the commission, by the european parliament and by the council to move forward with the stronger social europe. but the success of the pillar depends on the extent to which we implement it at european level, but especially at national level. the semester is our key instrument to make the principles and rights included in the pillar a reality on the ground. following the proclamation, for the first time the principles of the pillar are now embedded in the semester. to help with monitoring and implementation we have developed, together with the member states, a social scoreboard with 14 headline indicators that cover the three dimensions of the pillar: equal opportunities and access to the labour market, to education also, dynamic labour markets and fair working conditions and public support, social protection and inclusion. ladies and gentlemen, we need to use the good times to build a resilient economy – one that is less vulnerable to economic shocks and more able to respond to them. for this, we need reforms that combine the goals of stability and efficiency with a strong focus on fairness and inclusiveness. that is why we are now starting the second phase of the 2018 european semester by taking the dialogue to the member states on the basis of the country reports, and such strengthened dialogue will be very valuable in the preparation for the 2018 set of country specific recommendations in may.
i would like to thank mr bayet for his good cooperation and his hard work on this report, which he will no doubt deliver up to and including the vote tomorrow. we have found a good balance, i think, in this report around three main points: first of all, the report calls for a good balance between public and private investment. investment can stimulate demand in the short term, which is crucial in the current economic context. secondly, sound fiscal policy is essential for sustainable economic growth. if we want to keep the public finances under control, we really need to start preparing for the elephant in the room: the increasing ageing. if we do not take responsibility now and make affordability of pensions and care a priority, then this is a culpable omission towards every young person in europe. thirdly: the commission has already taken a number of measures. productivity-enhancing structural reforms will not only attract investment but also increase real incomes. digitalisation and technological progress are fundamentally reshaping our labour market. we must move towards dynamic labour markets, supported by accessible social security systems. the commission will publish its country-specific recommendations on 23 may. i can only urge that all national parliaments and the social partners be more closely involved in this process.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, minister, thank you for these exchanges. in conclusion, i would like to say that while economic growth is stronger in 2018, inequalities between our citizens are still far too present and therefore in the context of this coordination tool that is the semester and with this clear economic improvement, i think that we cannot go wrong. i believe that we really need strong action which is - as you said, madam commissioner - balanced and inclusive, and there is still a lot to be done in this respect, but i am particularly pleased - and it is partly thanks to you, mrs thyssen - with the full integration of the social pillar and its 14 indicators into the european semester because, contrary to what some people think, social is not just an expense but can also be a driver of the economy. there have been many studies showing that investing 2% of european gdp in the social sector would create almost 20 million jobs in europe, including women's jobs. it is therefore high time, if we are to be truly effective, that we analysed our economic policies from the social and environmental standpoints, and i am of course very pleased about this. finally, i hope that the commission and the council will follow us in taking strong measures for the benefit of the europeans. i believe that europe's survival is at stake.
mr president, let's be honest with each other. america is increasingly taking sides for itself, for america. they increasingly feel that their old allies should be left to fend for themselves. we see this in the middle east, where europe is expected to extract the hot coals from the fire itself. we see that in the debate on defence and nato, where america thinks we should start investing more ourselves. we see this in the free trade across the atlantic, which is not getting any easier. ttip is off the table. and today we are talking about import tariffs on aluminium and steel. let's not get fooled into thinking that either. this is not a new evolution. we've seen this before under obama, we're seeing it again under trump. i would therefore like to call for: let us look at ourselves first, let us not fall into the trap, let us not overreact, on the contrary. let's put on the glove, proud, with confidence, self-confidence. we are choosing not to have a trade war. we are against protectionism. we are in favour of fair and correct free trade because it is good for our businesses, our jobs and our consumers. a trade war doesn't make america and europe great again, it makes us all small. not great again.
mr president, i have just three questions about the debate we have had. the first question, commissioner, is whether you really believe that the wto today has the capacity to enforce the rules at international level and, if so, how do you intend to pursue this policy within the wto? we have all said that we are in favour of multilateralism, but we are seeing today that it is lacking in respect for the rules. secondly, as regards support for industry: we are not in favour of protectionism, of course, but free trade puts our industries under enormous pressure today in relation to competitors who do not respect a number of rules. how can we support our industries if we do not address this issue clearly? thirdly, we will have some spillover effects from the closure of the american markets. we talked about the chinese overproduction. how are we going to apply the new trade defence instruments, but also the significant distortion? are you prepared, commissioner, to activate the tools we have just voted for here in this house?
the us president is trying to pit eu member states against each other. the british tried that in the brexit negotiations: they came home from a cold fair. the eu has become increasingly aware that we are much stronger as a bloc of solidarity and unity in such conflict cases. if trump continues with his puberal measures, against the advice of almost all of his economic advisers, the eu has no choice but to respond. in the meantime, we must find out how to accelerate the roll-out of the concept of a cap on co2: the idea is embedded in the agreement on the reform of the ets system which we recently concluded. it would amount to paying a levy at european borders on co2-intensive products sold in the eu. products that are not produced using the cleanest production technologies are subject to additional costs, as in the european ets, the eu's emissions trading system. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to combat the use of these substances. but in particular, the heavily polluting imports from china could be tackled. in the light of the planned american recovery of the heavily polluting coal industry, this is a more than responsible exercise.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, last week, prime minister, it was in china, president xi jinping crowned himself emperor for life of that enormous continent. also last week, it was donald trump who started an old-fashioned, but, i think, dangerous trade war. and also last week, vladimir putin gets away with murders of former russian spies on european soil. i should say: welcome back to the future. welcome to the new world order, a world order based on empires and no longer on nation states, on the 196 nation states we count. it is clear that, in such a world older, we have to look to one thing if we want to talk about a reform of europe. what is our interest? how can we defend our interests in this new world order? and how can we defend also our security? because in the future we will only count on ourselves in this new world order. in such a new world order, the key question is: are we ready now with the european union? my answer to this is: no! we are not ready for the moment, and i give always the example of how the americans reacted to the financial crisis, prime minister, and how we reacted to the financial crisis in 2008. they, in nine months, democrats and republicans, decided a three-stage rocket: cleaning up the banks – 400 billion tarp; an investment programme three times bigger than ours – 900 billion (they are the capitalists and we are the so-called keynesians, but the opposite is true); and at the same time, a quantitative easing programme of 1.2 trillion. and we, after nine years, are still discussing the banking union inside the european union. and we have still not cleaned up all our banks in europe. and that’s not the only example; the example is also valuable for other fields. the real problem we have is that we are still not a real union as our founding fathers wanted. we are still a confederation of nation states that is based on the unanimity rule. so what we need as reform – and you have indicated in a lot of your interventions – are three things. first of all, a european defence community. we are alone in the world of tomorrow, so we need to do that homework. we are spending 40% of american military expenditure and we are only capable of doing 10% of the operations of the american army. so there is a field where we need absolutely to create that community as fast as possible. my second point – you have indicated it and i agree completely with you: the new euro governance, a euro budget, a fiscal capacity. it is completely ridiculous to have a single currency and not behind that single currency a fiscal capacity and a full authority. it is not only with the stability and growth pact that we can do the business. finally, and that’s my third point (and here i’m in disagreement a little bit with you and with the tone of your intervention): we need also institutional reform, a renewed european democracy. we need, for example, a european parliament that is not only responsible for the expenditure but also for the income, as in any normal european democracy. we need also, in my opinion (as i said already to president juncker) not a commission of 28. let’s bring it back to a real european government of 12 or 15 people. and we need to get rid of the unanimity rule. let’s be honest, also in matters of foreign policy. i give the example now of what is happening in britain: this attack on european, on british soil. we have still no opinion of the european union. ms mogherini is completely silent about it. why? because she needs, for example, 28 agreements before she can take a position on such a crucial issue. i think it’s time that we did this reform now. why, mr prime minister? we have a window of opportunity of two years to do so. after brexit there was no nexit, no frexit, no dexit, fortunately. but it’s not won. there could be a frexit, a dexit and a nexit if, in the coming two years, we don’t succeed. and that’s your responsibility, and that’s our responsibility, and that’s in fact our common responsibility. so let’s do it now, in the coming two years.
for the greens/efa group mr prime minister, when you took over as head of the portuguese government in 2015, the worst of the crisis was behind us, but your country was still far from being out of the storm zone. you have shown that the right-wing parties do not have a monopoly on the responsible management of public finances and that this responsible management is not necessarily incompatible with progress towards greater social justice. this is evidenced by the measures taken to help the low-income groups and the improvement of public services. if only for that, you deserve all our encouragement. we also share your resolute ambition for the european project, which is the only way - as you said - for europeans to face the challenges of this century. if the european union is to regain the unwavering and massive support of its citizens, it must decisively change course and turn its back on the austerity obsession to put the package on investment. but beware, not just any investment: all investments that promote the possibility for each and every one of us to lead a dignified life within the physical and biological limits that nature imposes on us. from this point of view, mr prime minister, it cannot be said that portugal is at this stage a leader in the ecological transition. i want to see oil exploration off your coast or the intensive fishing methods for sardines. we believe it is crucial for europe to be at the forefront of the green transition of the economy, not only to respond to climate imperatives, but to become a provider of solutions to the rest of the world. these investments must come from the private sector, of course, but also from the public sector, including at european level. here again, we share your ambition for a robust and ambitious european budget, fuelled in particular by own resources. you talk about taxing digital platforms, you also talk about all forms of pollution taxation, and the financial transaction tax falls into that category. let me conclude with a remark: i have never understood how your coalition could spontaneously come out in support of a trade treaty like ceta. these neoliberal trade deals are totally contrary to the social justice policies you are pursuing in this country. if all the social democrats in this house had voted against, ceta would be dead and buried today.
mr president, i would like to welcome mr costa. mr costa, citizens look at us as a union where fundamental rights and freedoms are at the core, and where there is no place for authoritarianism. that is why so many are worried by what is going on in spain and in catalonia, your neighbours. for more than four months, elected politicians and civil society leaders have been in prison – in pre-trial detention – for their political activities. there are political prisoners in spain, and so i am asking you: do we really accept that eu governments repress political dissent through arbitrary detention? the spanish government imposed direct rule on catalonia and called regional elections. it is now clear that it just does not accept the results of these elections. so i am asking you: can we allow member states to suspend democracy? the taoiseach, your irish counterpart, told us here that not repression, but dialogue, is the only way out. i couldn’t agree more. do you agree as well?
author. mr president, the internet has become almost indispensable in almost every aspect of our lives. we send a whatsapp message to a loved one, plan a route through google maps, watch cat videos on youtube, shop online and make payments. critical infrastructure, such as hospitals, can no longer function without the internet. look at eurocontrol . they 're all over the place . our european air traffic control communication uses the same internet cables as facebook and amazon. but that internet is also used for less cheerful things. almost every day there are incidents that provide the basis for a good movie script. for example, recently hackers remotely locked the electronic locks of all the rooms in an austrian hotel in exchange for a ransom. we will be increasingly confronted with all kinds of cybercrime. unfortunately, this sometimes involves foreign governments. we're more vulnerable than we think. this is why national and european authorities must work together to ensure our online security today and tomorrow. we need to invest much more in prevention, detection and response. we have already strengthened our legal framework. the new data protection regulation will raise the standards of data protection. the commission proposal on eu certification for secure ict products also has a number of important implications. we prefer to pursue a high and international standard of security throughout the line. we shall not succeed by legislation alone, however, because it cannot always keep pace with the rapid technological developments. europol, the european police cooperation agency, will soon have a decryption expertise centre. that's good news. this should support smaller member states in cracking encrypted messages. this allows them to more quickly track and tackle cybercriminals who try to remain anonymous. the european commission is providing them with an additional 5 million for this purpose. the new europol director, catherine de bolle, has already stated that the fight against crime and terrorism cannot be separated from the development and use of new technology. national governments also need to realize that old-fashioned policing must go hand in hand with embracing technological innovation. that concern also applies to the judiciary. while criminals use the latest gadgets, police and law enforcement often rely on chases with outdated equipment. but we also have to look at the civilians. governments need to make them more aware of the risks of the internet, so that they are more alert to various forms of cybercrime. they should also be encouraged to always report if they are the victim of cyberbullying, phishing or hacking, for example. it's not happening enough, but without that report, the police can't act. reporting is therefore needed to get a better view of cybercrime so that we can tackle it more targeted. finally, i would point out that data is a valuable asset, not only for the private user who wishes to protect it, but also for the police services. our police and intelligence services need access to data to detect crimes and to detect terrorist plots in time. a too dogmatic view of privacy prevents the police and the judiciary from doing their job. that is what i have heard during my work as co-rapporteur in the special committee on terrorism. colleagues, in the interest of our citizens, we must strike a balance between privacy and security. it is not an "either/or" discussion, but an "and" discussion. both privacy and security are important. police services need to be able to do their job, which is to protect us from terrorists and criminals both offline and online.
mr president, when i heard the radio news on 26 february, i too felt a sense of horror. for the second time in a short period of time, a journalist has been murdered in one of our european member states. i've been a journalist for many years myself, so this news touches me very deeply. ján kuciak and his partner martina kušnírová were shot dead in cold blood. did he get too close to the truth in his investigation of possible mafia interference in the slovak state? we need to get a full investigation. journalists, the watchdogs of our democracy, should not only be left alone, they should also be actively protected. our governments need to guarantee journalists that they can do their jobs, that they can exercise their fundamental right to access information without running the risk of having their personal data leaked, being passed on to third parties, in the worst case to criminal organizations. unfortunately, it's too late for kuciak and his wife. but let us learn lessons for the future - and i agree with the commissioner - let the slovak government, in cooperation with europol, conduct an independent and impartial investigation, including due attention to possible complicity by officials. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would first like to thank paul and alain for this important report, which was awaited by civil society, because, of course, all our fellow citizens have suffered from the various tax scandals luxleaks, panama papers, and so on. all these scandals have one thing in common: large multinationals pay almost no tax by playing on the 28 tax systems in the union. whether we are citizens, smes or multinationals, it is normal, fair and ethical for everyone to contribute to society in proportion to their income, because it is tax money that funds social security, health care, schools, public transport, infrastructure and the development of our economy. this was obviously and scandalously forgotten by many multinationals. the result is that each year european states lose 1 000 billion in tax revenue. this is obviously unbearable! the aim of the two directives we are discussing today is to arrive at an identical definition of taxable profit in european countries, in order to put an end to the game of multinationals, which seek to take advantage of the differences between our tax systems in the union. in concrete terms, this accis project proposes that there should be only one place of taxation, one contact with a tax administration for all multinationals operating in the union. at first, only large companies with a turnover of more than 500 million will be affected, but parliament has strengthened the directive proposed by the commission, extending the scope of this directive to all companies within seven years. i think that's a good thing. under the new law, companies operating across borders will have to comply with a single european system for determining taxable income, rather than the different national regimes under which the activity is carried out. we have also introduced measures to tax digital companies, which must also contribute their fair share, given the enormous profits they have made. these two directives should therefore, in part, address current concerns on corporate taxation. a drawback, unfortunately, was that we could not agree on a minimum tax rate. this tax rate would, however, allow for real tax harmonisation at european level and should reduce intra-european competition, which is currently too strong. we are counting on you, commissioner, for this important matter. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. madam president, i will be very brief, because i think my colleague has not yet understood a lot of things about tax evasion. we've been getting the same stuff for years. no, it is impossible for a multinational to deprive itself of one of the world's largest markets - 500 million consumers. when we all agree to impose higher tax rates, they will stay at home because they cannot do without our european market. and i'm not at the disposal of the multinationals.
i would like to see every european country attracting businesses and creating jobs. i want the small member states to have a chance too and not all of it to go to the large member states. i want countries to retain their powers in taxation and therefore we should emphasize that the european union is a platform for cooperation and not a country, and that it is therefore not for the european union to impose taxes. for all these reasons, i am against these proposals for the cctb and for a ccctb. i know that these terms, cctb and so on, sound rather dry and technical and like accounting jargon, but they are not. this goes way beyond that. this is much more fundamental. this is about our fiscal policy and the end of it. this is about a transfer from small to large member states, because that is what companies will do. they will shift their businesses, their profits and their jobs from smaller, innovative economies to the larger economies in the european union. france and germany, because there are more factories, because there is a bigger market. we are opposed to that. fortunately, we're not alone. there are a number of other delegations doing this as well. i am surprised that the socialist party is supporting this proposal, that it seems to prefer jobs in germany and france to jobs in flanders, wallonia and brussels. i know where our priorities are. it's with our people and our economy.
president. - mr president, we have been advocating for years for a level playing field and fair taxation. the ccctb is a very important step in this direction. i would therefore ask you today to join me in supporting this report. finally, the tax base will be the same throughout the european union, with one objective in mind: tax value where it is created. but we do not want to eliminate competition between member states. on the contrary, by creating a level playing field, there will be competition in three main areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. this will strengthen the competitiveness of our member states and, ultimately, of the european union as a whole. as a corollary, our companies will have to rely on one system instead of 27 different ones, which will reduce the administrative burden considerably. this one system is also a strong basis for taxing the digital giants like facebook, google and amazon. it also creates a framework to arm us against attacks on our european tax revenues by third countries. in summary, the ccctb stands for more revenue borne by a wider base and a union that is stronger in the world. this is a historic opportunity. i hope therefore that the council will take our advice to heart and will come up with results quickly. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" question. what is it? mrs wierinck, interesting to hear your speech. we all know that your party has traditionally been in favour of proposals for more and more europe. i just want to ask you a question. you have seen the vote in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. there was a minority vote among a number of interesting parties, such as the cda, but also small parties from small member states: denmark, finland and so on. their argument is very clear: what is on the table is not good for small member states but will shift jobs to large countries. aren't you afraid of that? you will either lead the way or we will lead the way together in creating jobs in belgium. but those jobs will soon be shifting to, say, germany.
"blue card" is the answer. no, i'm not afraid of that. we are indeed going to create money where value is created. it is important that all member states should be able to receive the fair taxes that will be created by the cctb. i'm not afraid of it at all. this is a fair tax and it's going to make sure that big multinationals and other companies are going to pay their taxes the way the little guy should pay his taxes.
(start of the intervention without the microphone)... thank you to the commission for its proposal, thank you to the co-rapporteurs for their quality work. the new skills strategy has one key objective: to leave no one behind. at the heart of this is a tool that will allow for greater transparency: the europass portfolio. it is more than a cv, it is a document that will help citizens to identify their skills and qualifications. it already exists, but it was time to renovate it, bring it up to date. in the future, it will be adapted to digital developments and will also take into account the needs and trends of each professional sector. all experience is valuable and with europass, all skills acquired in different forms of learning, whether formal, non-formal or informal, or even voluntary or associative work, will be valued. there is also a place for lifelong learning, and the mobility experiences encouraged by the europass mobility erasmus+ will be highlighted in this new portfolio. the revised europass services will be adapted to the needs and expectations of the different actors, be they learners, jobseekers, employers, education and training institutions, social partners, europass national centres or competent national authorities. the success of these new tools is also due to the commitment of all to the same objective: to establish and move towards a europe that is truly a social europe, listening to all learners, all workers but also all companies.
the socialist and democratic group, as you know, has been a strong supporter of this legislation, particularly as regards the obligation to legislate and not the voluntary approach. i also want to join bernd lange in thanking the european commission for working together to amend the original proposal and make it actually binding, despite the many obstacles that existed in the various discussions. the legislation has put the recognition of industrial designs at the heart of the mechanism, which is really a key element at the legislative level. however, a corruption and money laundering scandal broke out in 2016 over the refinery and the metals, which were certified in an lbma industrial scheme until 2017. this case shows the limits of the functioning of industrial schemes and, in particular, the lack of transparency of industrial schemes currently. my questions are of three kinds. firstly, in view of the lack of transparency in the industrial schemes, will you require them to fully align themselves, as we asked in the negotiations, with the oecd principles of public and detailed declaration to give access to all information? secondly, will you make in-depth analyses through audit practices, through sample surveys, in the case of these industrial schemes? thirdly, will you ensure that companies remain individually liable for their duty of care when they do not adhere to a scheme as such? it is really essential to ensure the effectiveness of these schemes if we are to guarantee the effectiveness of legislation. i shall now turn to the accompanying measures. i read yesterday in a document that was provided to us that an initiative called 'european partnership for responsible minerals', which brings together experts to work upstream, i.e. in the mines, is being funded by dg devco to the tune of over €5 million. this initiative brings together players such as intel, apple and philips. can you tell me to what extent these actors are also financing this action?
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting the responsible sourcing regulation on 17 may 2017, we wanted to break the link between the marketing of minerals and the financing of conflicts. this was a spectacular step forward in regulating responsible sourcing. but strong accompanying measures are clearly needed to improve local governance. i thank you, commissioner, for your personal commitment and for the efforts made by the commission to respond to parliament's concerns. however, i regret that the amounts allocated to accompanying measures are mainly committed by the commission and very little by the member states: 20 million over the period 2016-2020 for all the countries concerned, which obviously seems to me to be totally insufficient. so these are very small amounts. i would add that i see no commitment to a permanent political dialogue with the partner countries. i share the concern of my colleague maria arena about the lack of transparency in industrial schemes. i will not go back to that. i am of course grateful to dg devco for committing €5 million in 2017 for measures to support local authorities, to strengthen local communities, to support the private sector in implementing the duty of care, but this is obviously insignificant compared to the needs, of course. i think we need a lot more, and we'll see to it. i'm sorry, of course i am. we have already come a long way, we have made significant progress, but we could have gone much further, particularly in terms of the traceability of all the companies concerned. madam president, i obviously trust you to follow up this matter and we will certainly be coming back to see where the amounts, which we hope are much higher, are to really resolve this matter.
commissioner, the alternative fuel infrastructure and the market for environmentally friendly vehicles are a bit like the chicken and the egg. they both look at each other, and in the meantime, not much happens. we are not doing enough to meet the stated targets for basic infrastructure by 2025. with some 130 000 alternative charging and refuelling points and just 5% of vehicles powered by alternative energy, we still have a long way to go. in your action plan you rightly emphasize 'urgent' and point to the right direction for a good part of it. i would add that we will only be able to make a sustainable transition to low-emission mobility if we combine strong ambition with a realistic approach. this is the only way to arm ourselves against the global competition in low-carbon vehicles and technologies. i would stress the importance of technology neutrality, demand-driven support and an approach that is up to date and flexible in view of rapid technological developments. finally, i call on the transport sector, the energy sector and all the public authorities in the eu to do their bit. only if everyone takes responsibility will the european citizen be able to use a sound infrastructure.
author. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, students, lawyers, protesters and human rights defenders have been arbitrarily arrested and even tortured for exercising their right to demonstrate peacefully. in 2007, we awarded the sakharov prize to human rights lawyer salih mahmoud osman for his fight against injustice in sudan. for more than three decades, this lawyer has been fighting for the restoration of the rule of law in his country. the general human rights situation in sudan, as has been said on several occasions, remains dire. the national intelligence and security service abuses its extensive powers in a blatant manner to restrict political and civil rights, including through intimidation, detention and torture. this is clearly not acceptable. i believe that the international community, through this resolution, must increase the pressure on the sudanese authorities even more.
author. mr president, karin is three years old. a beautiful child, but born with club feet. she lives alone with her mother in extreme poverty, because her father and the rest of the family have rejected them. because a disabled child is a disgrace to the family in uganda and in many african countries. the mother is at a loss. she's even considering killing her child. mercy killing, the so-called mercy killing to actually save herself and her child from more suffering. ladies and gentlemen, this is a true story from uganda - for those who might doubt it - recorded by investigative journalist gerald bareebe and brought to europe by journalist rudi vranckx. for many people, and i'm hearing it here today, it's something like, is this real? is this for real? it's so cruel that we have to wonder if it's true. because, ladies and gentlemen, i have no figures, there are no statistics, this is happening in the taboo sphere. this is, like, really something that nobody wants to talk about. so let's take a stand here today. let us support the resolution en masse. let's break the silence. let us ask the european commission to launch an inquiry. let us ask, mr michel, the committee on development and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, sophie, to take this up. let's make sure that the aid agencies support families to break the taboo. all children, disabled or not, everywhere in the world, deserve a life of dignity.
mr president, the european union is today attracting corporate taxation to itself. in belgium we have had a movement for more flemish autonomy, more autonomy for flanders, for some 20 years. a flemish movement which has seen this evolution brought to a standstill by the present belgian government, which has put a rather brutal end to it. but until a few years ago, the core of that autonomy movement was fiscal autonomy. that was the spike. and the idea behind it was very simple: the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market if it is granted by a member state or through state resources. so we tried as a flemish movement to get those powers back from belgium. now we are going to see them disappear into europe, with seven national parliaments opposing it. it's a scandal and not a good evolution. we should have found another solution to the problems we faced. i hope this ends soon, because this is not what we want.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me be very clear: we support without any reservation the targeted strikes against the chemical facilities. i know there are some people who are making a comparison with the iraq war. well, i continue to believe that the iraq war was a mistake, based on a lie. i was prime minister of one of the only european countries that openly opposed that war, and i am still proud of that attitude. but i think that this intervention in syria is fully justified because it is a regime that has used chemical weapons against its own population – against women, against children – and not for the first time. different types of chemicals have already been used 73 times, so all you can say about the assad regime is that it is genocidal and no longer has any legitimacy. i never agree with donald trump, but for once, when he tweeted that assad is a monster, i agreed with him. at the same time, we also have to be clear – and that has to be our second message – that precision attacks against civilian military facilities are not a strategy for peace and will not end in this. i have to tell you that i am also sad when i see the outcome of the foreign affairs council of today: eleven pages with a very general condemnation and very general statements of principle. i do not think that we can continue like that. we need more than general condemnation. we need a real european strategy in this syrian tragedy, and i think there are three key elements for such a strategy. the first is to engage all constructive forces in the region in a new initiative. this new initiative must be a roadmap to a new syria that is democratic, that is neutral, and that is respectful of the different religions that are practised in that country. finally, i also think that we need to launch new sanctions to increase the costs of those who behave irresponsibly, who violate agreed ceasefires, undermine peace efforts and use these criminal chemical weapons, as has happened in recent weeks. i do not think we can abandon syria and leave it in the hands of assad. it concerns our own security and that is the reason why we need to urge the council to come forward with a consistent strategy towards syria. (applause)
i think that karl-heinz florenz is entitled to speak a little longer now and then because of his record, but we also worked together a long time ago on electrical and electronic waste, and that is a little bit of a precursor to what we are discussing today. it will not surprise you that i would like to thank all the colleagues in this parliament for the excellent work that has been done, but i would like to thank in particular my good colleague and rapporteur, simona bonafè, not only for the work that has been done today, but for the pulling and the pushing and the dragging of this very difficult dossier. karl-heinz florenz has already referred to it, and at the beginning we were not sure whether the commission wanted to be ambitious. under the refit, the case was withdrawn and we were all so scared. parliament has put a lot of pressure on it to get a proposal through. that's good, and thank you for that. it is also very important that it is embedded in the waste directive, in the overall philosophy of the circular economy. that's the last point i want to make. of course, i'm going to have to ask you to go a little further. and in terms of eco-design, we really need to take some very strong steps forward. it can't just be about electricity use anymore, but it really has to be about the whole circular economy. it should be embedded in the ecodesign directive. we are very much in favour of this.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for these positive words and the support and engagement of parliament in this file. the commission will make its proposal for the next mff on 2 may, and the proposal for the external financing instruments will follow after. let me conclude by underlining that i am very much looking forward to fruitful discussions with parliament. the issues at stake are important and numerous, and i am convinced that the upcoming interinstitutional negotiations will be key to ensuring that the eu keeps being a major global actor: standing strong for its values, promoting its interests and effectively assisting its partners so as to jointly ensure a safer and more sustainable future for all. i look forward to continuing the excellent work with the european parliament and to engaging with you again soon.
a european protein strategy is more than necessary. protein is the basis of our meat and therefore of prime importance to our livestock farming. after the mad cow disease in the 1990s, we rightly banned the use of animal protein in animal feed in europe and vigilance is still needed. but the european ban on the use of animal meal in animal feed has led to massive imports of plant protein from gmo soy from latin america into europe. we must try to reduce this dependence, and the promotion of other protein crops and the breeding of soybeans, for example, could be a step in the right direction. but i think we should be bold enough to look at more protein sources. using proteins from insects or algae is a really good example of this. but since insects are now considered farm animals, they too fall under that ban introduced in the 1990s. i therefore ask the commission to look at this very issue and, if possible, to adjust the rules on insects to allow them to reach their full potential.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97). in many cases it is simply the promotion and subsidizing of the political opposition in member states which are not to the european union's liking. the most striking example is, of course, the situation in hungary, where the helsinki committee, for example, openly says through its vice-president: "when we criticize the government's position on migration, then we want to hold the government accountable to the geneva convention". pure political interference by an organisation which is 80% subsidised by mr soros and which you are now going to supplement with european subsidies. it's just an example. the european union wants to see countries and member states that are not in step, that differ on immigration and also on the role of the european union itself from the view held here by those who have been punished by power, and that is a pity. this instrument is not only a waste of money, it is also a flagrant violation of important principles such as subsidiarity and sovereignty.
i have read the letter calling for the european values instrument. ngos asked for financial support to help them spread european values. that sounds noble, but the letter didn't make a dent. it was said that the eurocritical voices, and therefore not the policies pursued, were to blame for the malaise in europe. the negative attitude of the population towards the union was also criticised. my delegation, the n-va, is of course fully committed to the rule of law. this is also reflected in our commitment to catalonia. we therefore want to strengthen the eu's renowned mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights and take action against governments that fail to act. however, this value instrument is directed at the citizen. what's the point of that? the citizens of europe are aware of europe's failure in the field of migration and are dissatisfied with its wastefulness. double standards and backroom politics. is the idea to win back voters with a good news show and then use their own tax dollars to do it?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president of the republic, ladies and gentlemen, i want to start where mr kamall left off and repeat in your presence what i said yesterday here in this very chamber of the european parliament, namely that we fully support the military action taken in syria by france and the other allies. we must say this, ladies and gentlemen, because a regime which uses chemical weapons against its own people is a genocidal and illegitimate regime. this is the reality that must be acknowledged. (applause) but it must also be said, mr president, that this intervention shows our weakness because it is france that is intervening, it is the united kingdom that is intervening and launching missiles, not the european union. sixty-five years after the national assembly torpedoed the european defence community, the european army still does not exist. it must also be said, ladies and gentlemen, that our foreign policy is also an illusion from time to time because of our lack of unity, because of the rule of unanimity which still exists today for the union's foreign policy, which is an aberration and which must absolutely be put to an end. this weakness, let us admit, does not only concern our outward action. you used the word 'paralysis' in your speech. a paralysis is manifested on the inner level, so to speak. when a country like the united kingdom leaves the european union, it is hard to say: "ah, what a success!" in addition, there are, of course, authoritarian tendencies in poland and, above all, in hungary. ladies and gentlemen, in a very recent report on the hungarian elections, the osce speaks of 'intimidating and xenophobic rhetoric', 'media bias' and 'opaque electoral financing'. these are almost the same words, word for word, as in the remarks made by the osce during the election of putin. i want to be clear: in my view there is no place and there never will be for illiberal states in our union. freedom of expression, the rule of law, legality before the law are not only liberal principles from the enlightenment, but also and above all european values. something has to be done about it. but for the moment, we're not doing anything. i was touched, manfred weber, by the words you used, by this pamphlet written by those young people in 1943, murdered by the gestapo. you have been to the very heart of the european union and that is better than sending congratulatory telegrams to mr orbán. that's the reality. (applause) i would like to thank i think, mr president, that it is this refusal to tackle the aberrations in hungary, this inability to act in the major conflicts in our neighbourhood, this inability also to respond to the migratory flows - let us say it, because this is the reality of today! - that also affects our economy. the americans, during the financial crisis in 2008, reacted in nine months with a plan to clean up the banks, with investments of 2,500 billion dollars in nine months and with two different administrations, one democrat and the other, republican! what about us after nine years? after nine years, we have not yet cleaned up all our banks, we have not yet had our banking union, we have not yet created the new governance of the euro area. i am therefore very much afraid - and i will say this very openly - that europe is not ready at the moment if, tomorrow - and we hope that this does not happen - a new financial crisis naturally breaks out. the question to be asked in this debate, mr president, is why? what is wrong with the union? why is it always too late, too soft, too weak in the european union? it must be said and acknowledged that it is the intergovernmental system with this basis of unanimity at its base that is doomed to failure and inertia in this world that is constantly speeding up. we must add to this - we have already spoken about this during the debate - the binary political system which governs the union and which, from the outset, has been obsolete. it is not just the two traditional parties in this chamber - i will not speak ill of them, they are our colleagues - but also, as we have already said, the franco-german axis. i have to say, though, he's not in the best shape right now. make no mistake: i am in favour of your having very good relations with mrs merkel, but of course the future and the next europe cannot depend on just a 'random agreement' between two heads of state. we need a lot more! let's face it, the eurosceptics there are quite a few of them here and you will hear them after our speeches, because, at the moment, you are listening to a good part of the speeches are not always wrong, of course, let's admit it. it must be acknowledged that a large majority of our citizens - as you said - are exasperated by the union's inertia at the moment. you said it yourself: the citizens' problem is not the european union, but how we manage the european union. you just saw it in your speech at the sorbonne. the solution to this inertia is not to break up europe, but to reinvent it, to rebuild it, i would say. you have said - and you have said it again here today - that the real sovereignty is european. i must say that this is very brave of you in a country that has always thought "vive l'europe, as long as it is french!" which was still a bit the feeling in france. what is important in this debate, mr president, is that you have broken with what i call a cliché, you have done something incredible: you have convinced the french people, during the election, that a nation is not sovereign when it retreats into itself, but when society and its citizens take back power over their own lives, over their own destiny. you have convinced the french people - and certainly this house - that we need a new european project, a transnational project with a pan-european impetus. i encourage you to persevere because the conservative forces in europe are still strong. too many people say, "let's just leave things as they are, let's do nothing!" keeping power is actually more important than exercising it! between ourselves, i sometimes get the impression that compared to the conservatives in europe, even the sncf is a bastion of reformers. do not hesitate, do not give up: after 2019, you will find another european parliament, with many more people who will support you, a generation of europe that demands boldness! when i speak of audacity, mr president, i always end with danton, who said: 'audacity, more audacity, always audacity' - and europe will be saved! (applause from the left)
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is good that france is back. for too long its european headquarters have been physically occupied but politically empty. europe cannot be french or german, but it cannot build anything in the long term if it cannot rely on the resolute commitment of both germany and france. a france which could, if it really wanted to, embody within its own borders the european motto of unity in diversity. mr president, the ambition you outline for europe is in many respects the same as the struggles we regionalists and environmentalists have been waging for a long time. we share your conviction that europeans must act together if we are to meet the challenges of this century. this is the key to our true sovereignty. we share your desire to build a political union which gives the citizens a voice again, and which must be at the heart of the european project, not on the margins. like you, we want to give our common currency a future, which requires a robust investment budget, a common guarantee for bank deposits, but also an end to tax competition and social dumping. finally, we stand with you in affirming: "make our planet great again". we know, and you know, that europe must be at the forefront of the ecological transition, starting with its budget, which must be its instrument. ecology is the key to our prosperity. mr president, what you want for europe, you say france must start doing it today. but your action in france tells a very different story, a story that undermines the motto of your country: freedom, equality, fraternity. where is the freedom when your citizens can be watched, put under house arrest and searched on the mere suspicion of the police? where is the freedom when armed police arrive at dawn to arrest a group of young people whose only crime is to have peacefully occupied a construction site? my daughter was in that group. she was taken away from home to face her two-year-old son for a day of questioning. in your france, the rule of law, the guarantor of our freedoms, is moving away from us day by day. freedom and equality. where is the equality when you impose ever more precariousness on the working people while at the same time you give tax gifts to the richest, those you like to call the top of the queue? your faith in them is unshakable. but, you see, what defines the rope, mr macron, is the rope. it is this that allows the speed of the first rope to be adapted to the needs of the group. it's also what keeps the last of the rope from falling into the ravine. but in our societies, mr president, this rope no longer exists: the rich are getting richer, the middle classes are stagnating and becoming precarious, and the most fragile are left to their fate. freedom, equality and fraternity. in the name of brotherhood, do you sell weapons to regimes that turn them against their own people or against their neighbors? where is that fraternity when your police are tearing up tents and sleeping bags of migrants? expedited procedures, non-suspension appeals, administrative detention, these are the ingredients of your asylum and immigration bill. contain and repress rather than welcome human beings in forced exodus. freedom, equality and fraternity. to the country of the climate agreement, i would add a fourth term, namely 'sustainability'. you say you want the carbon tax, the end of glyphosate, the end of diesel cars, bravo! but at the same time you remain a fervent supporter of the current free trade agreements and, even worse, of nuclear energy. unlike your predecessor, you have enabled the european union to adopt a totally lax definition of endocrine disruptors. you have had the courage to put an end to this absurd project of an airport at notre-dame-des-landes, but it is only to crush with violence the plans of those who have been inventing a different way of life for years. mr. president, a book calls you a philosopher. he says that none of your words are the product of chance. a few months ago, you were talking about the people who are successful and the people who are not. you didn't say people who do nothing or people who have nothing, you said people who are nothing. you see, for us, the european project is precisely to ensure that never again, in any part of this continent, can any woman, any man be considered as nothing or think of himself as nothing, because to consider human beings as nothing is to allow them to suffer anything, and we will never accept that. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, you have made it a habit to give a gift to your distinguished guests. let me do the same. i offer you this climbing rope, a symbol of the rope you seem to hold on to. i say this to you: whenever you advance the cause of freedom, equality and fraternity in europe, whenever you take action for a fairer, more sustainable and more democratic europe, we will stand by you. if you don't, we'll be on your way. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president macron, i am very disappointed that i did not hear a single word in your speech or in your replies about equality between men and women in europe. equality between men and women in europe today is facing serious difficulties, whether in hungary or poland, but also more generally, whether in representation in employment, discrimination in pay or violence. not a word about this discrimination. so i am giving you a third chance, mr president, to be able to say, in your reply, what will be france's position on the european commission's initiative on work-life balance, on parental leave which will finally allow these fathers and mothers to take charge of their working life but also their family life and thus give european children the best possible development.
mr president, mr president of the republic, i would like to ask you a question in dutch. you spoke of protecting citizens and we agree with you completely. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0210/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the conclusion of the protocol establishing a european defence agency (eda) (com (97) 0406 - c4-0414/97-97/0169 (cns)). the belgian government is considering replacing the f-16s with exclusively american fighter aircraft in the coming weeks and months. what initiatives do you think you could take to convince not only the belgian government, but as many partners as possible in the european union to join you? the european union is a major player in the world economy, and the eu is the world's largest trading partner.
president, asylum and migration are important issues. our citizens are concerned about the relentless influx of migrants. they are concerned about our porous external borders and the socioeconomic challenges and security risks associated with them. i still believe that we in the union must move towards a system where recognised refugees can only be transferred by resettlement, so that we know who is entering and can enforce a maximum limit, but also so that families no longer risk their lives in shabby boats because they know that illegal entry is no longer rewarded with legal residence. the dialogue is also taking place at international level. i am pleased that agreements are being made on such a resettlement policy for europe, but also worldwide. i would call on the negotiators to show the necessary ambition and realism and also to pay sufficient attention to the return of illegal economic migrants, so that the support of the population increases. make a clear distinction between vulnerable refugees who have found no safe haven abroad and those seeking happiness. i do find it worrying that parliament is calling for the decriminalisation of humanitarian aid, pointing to italy, which seized an ngo boat on suspicion of aiding human smugglers. despite orders from the italian rescue and coordination centre and the eu-trained libyan coast guard, the ngo took the migrants to a european hotspot. humanitarian organizations are not above the law or the agreements made.
the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. it is not a binding framework, but it is a framework in which we will encourage international cooperation to tackle this phenomenon. we are about to start the debate here and everyone is talking about the negative effects of migration. i would like to say briefly that, fortunately, migration is positive in many cases. people who have the freedom to live, work and live and move within the world. but here today we are talking specifically about migration that people are concerned about, about illegal migration, about refugees and migrants. and i want to make a plea here for one specific group, namely the children in migration. can i ask you to close your eyes for 30 seconds, or let's say 10 because i don't have that much time to talk, and think back to your own childhood? we can happily look back on happy childhoods, on playing in freedom. children on the run, they can't do that. children on the run, fleeing chemical weapons, bombings, are put on a dingy boat by human traffickers at risk of drowning. commissioner, i want to make a statement today to focus on children in migration. europol has also said that ten thousand unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are missing in europe. let's make a real plan of action. let us make sure that the global pacts focus on the children. no more child custody. we must make a commitment to registration, to family reunification, to the humane care of the most vulnerable. a child in migration is first and foremost a child and deserves our protection.
i would like to point out, mr president, that there is a further persistent confusion about migration. the idea that we should respect the human rights of migrants on european soil has been replaced by an idea that was not intended at all, namely that migration is a human right. the hungarian government has understood this very well, and in a document of barely two pages, the 'proposals by hungary to the un's global compact on migration', paragraph 3 states: "migration is not a basic human right". and they are. and that is why we in the enf are in favour of the idea that the geneva convention should be revised as soon as possible. it's from a very different time. she was meant for something else entirely. and it hinders a normal and modern view of migration, which is adapted to what the population of europe is feeling at the moment about the migration that has happened to them.
in writing. if we are to reverse the growing reluctance of parts of our societies towards migrants, we need to show citizens that migration policy can be changed. we must offer european citizens and migrants an alternative to the images of dilapidated boats in the mediterranean, the jungles of calais or the misery of overcrowded asylum centres and refugee camps. the global compacts are therefore an important opportunity which we must pursue with ambition. i am proud that the european parliament can put forward a strong text today. in many parts of the world, migration is both a challenge for society and an opportunity for the economy. to avoid falling short of the challenge and to reap the rewards of this opportunity, we must work together. this means financial solidarity for vulnerable regions and the common organisation of legal migration channels. good immigration policy strengthens people rather than making them more vulnerable. i am therefore pleased that the text also pays particular attention to children, who already make up a significant proportion of the number of migrants, but will do so even more in the coming years. parliament reaffirms today that human rights are the key to, and not the obstacle to, sound policy.
president, mrs mogherini, assad is at it again. we are here again today, after yet another attack in syria. 73 times there have been chemical attacks launched on the population there in syria by assad. over half a million dead to date. this number, these images, it defies imagination. can we sleep after seeing the footage, after seeing the foam coming out of the mouths of the children and the women? what are we supposed to do with it? i think that is why there is a broad support and understanding for the counterattacks launched by france, britain and the united states, targeted attacks. but, mrs mogherini, let me be clear: the military escalation has only one effect on me and that is that at this moment it is virtually impossible for all the women and children and men there to live. in fact, we should dare to say that with the escalation that is taking place, we should think about how humane it is to let the syrians live on the ground. hence my call. we have heard some very good statements at the european council. but i actually read them too much. i would like to see us moving towards a genuine european strategy, and i know it is not so easy to solve. it's a complex issue. but we must continue to focus on a truly comprehensive approach. talk to the allies, talk to turkey, talk to iran, talk to russia. that's the only way we're ever gonna be able to end that conflict there. besides, i want to make a call here. let us continue to speak on the diplomatic front, but let us also make sure that the people there are not starving, especially on the humanitarian front, because that too is a crime. for me, this is the first priority right now: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the necessary humanitarian aid is provided to the people.
mr president, we have heard it a lot here today: relations with russia are at a low ebb. we actually have fewer deals with russia, we talk less with russia, than we did during the cold war. that is something that should definitely wake us up. since the illegal annexation of crimea, we have been caught in a sort of negative spiral of sanctions and counter-sanctions. we must break this spiral because our farmers in europe are feeling the boycott of russia, but in russia too a whole generation of young russians is growing up with anti-european sentiments. that is why we are making all these proposals to develop a genuine new strategy for russia, such as the helsinki process, a conditional commitment, step by step. i see you nodding. well, then i hope, commissioner, that we will actually apply this new strategy of conditional commitment.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, i want to say to donald tusk, the president of the council, that for the european parliament, even now with the withdrawal agreement now, things are not over. we still need to have the citizens’ rights completed, because certainly after the windrush scandal in britain, we want to be sure that the same is not happening to our european citizens and that there will be no bureaucratic nightmare for them. so on 24 april next week we will organise a special session on these rights between the home office and five of our committees involved in this. and if there are changes needed, we will communicate to the negotiator, david davis and to michel barnier what modifications are needed to avoid real problems for our eu citizens. my second point is on the coming council. as manfred weber has said, there are three points needed on your agenda. first of all, a breakthrough in the migration package. sorry, but the european parliament has a position; we are ready to negotiate this migration package. it is absolutely needed. the proposals of the commission are very clear. and so my request to you is: when is the council going to have a position so that we can drastically reform the migration policy of the union? this is absolutely needed. the second is breakthrough in eurozone reform; we also need this. the four presidents’ report, the five presidents’ report, the recommendations of mario draghi; when will the council tackle this problem? it is almost nine years after the outbreak of the financial crisis, and we are still not capable of concluding on this. my third suggestion, mr tusk, would be that you put the cases of hungary and poland on the agenda of the council. i have here the report of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) about the elections in hungary. you have read it, i hope? it’s incredible – we can say that – that access to information as well as the freedoms of the media and association have been restricted in hungary. they are saying there was intimidating xenophobic rhetoric during the election. there was media bias, there was opaque campaign financing. i think it’s time that you put this on the agenda of the european council. can you go forward – can we go forward – with the member states with such a report of the osce after their elections? and the same is happening for poland. my fear – and i hope that i am wrong – is that there will be only cosmetic changes, and secondary legislation in poland, and that the main problem which is the independence of the constitutional court is still not solved. i hope it is time to act, mr tusk, and to put these three points on the agenda of the council in june.
- i'm the reporter. president, commissioner, mr lehne, mrs panayotova, i am the rapporteur for the agencies, for all the agencies except one: the food safety agency efsa, for which indrek tarand is the rapporteur. my work began in july last year after the strasbourg meeting. i then went to parma, to the food safety agency, where at that moment all the agencies, the directors-general and their delegates were meeting to coordinate their work. and right away, that's my first comment: there is a coordinating secretariat which coordinates the work of all agencies. it's what the staff who deserve the name need. parliament is prepared to allocate one full-time equivalent to that coordinating secretariat. the council refuses. i would ask you, mrs panayotova, to urge the council to reserve that one post for that coordinating agency. i want to emphasize very explicitly: the agencies are generally doing very good work. they're needed, and they're also very alert in the work they do. the resolutions deal with the impact of brexit. for some agencies this is quite essential, for example when the ema was relocated we heard that relocating to certain countries would be quite catastrophic. that's true for big agencies like the fda. but this is also true of smaller agencies, such as the agency which deals with galileo. so that's a focus. in this connection, there is also another point of interest, namely the whole system of the salary coefficient, whereby wages are adjusted according to the location of an agency. for some agencies this is a matter of fair urgency; for example, frontex in poland cannot make a serious personnel policy because of the low salary coefficient. so that is what the resolutions call for. i've, of course, focused on avoiding conflicts of interest across all agencies. avoiding conflicts of interest is incredibly important. in most agencies, that's the right direction. in any case, there are no excuses, no excuses to publish, for example, the cvs of the members of the boards of directors of agencies, to give a comprehensive overview of the possible conflicts of interest of staff or experts employed on a temporary basis by those agencies. so that needs to be monitored further. the anti-corruption policy is also very important in this respect. i also paid attention to the equality between men and women. we are also seeing more and more women working in the agencies. unfortunately, this is still too often the case in executive positions and not in management positions. you will read in each resolution what the state of affairs is and which agencies really need to make an effort to get more women into management positions. attention has also been paid to the welfare of the staff. team building activities, anti-bullying policies, bullying which unfortunately still occurs in certain work situations. so there are 32 critical resolutions and i recommend discharge for all agencies except for one agency, easo, the asia agency. i do not mean to say that the asylum agency is not doing important work or that it is not doing good work. i think that the agency is doing an excellent job and that the staff, who often have to solve problems in difficult circumstances, under time pressure in italy and greece, are doing a brilliant job. that's all said and done. but let us also acknowledge that there is an olaf investigation going on at the moment into the internal dynamics within easo. as long as this olaf investigation is going on, i think we cannot grant discharge, that we must postpone discharge. we shall see, once the olaf investigation is completed, which is expected by the end of the summer, what the situation is and then we may be able to grant discharge in october. i would like to say a few words about the commission's discharge resolution. i thank mr ziller for his work. we have tabled a number of amendments to that with regard to integrity issues. the fact that commissioner cañete is voluntarily retiring from here, from the european parliament, the meeting between mr barroso and mr katainen, and finally also selmayr, is the subject of a separate resolution. i'm happy with the work we did there. we have tabled a limited number of amendments and i hope that we can all come to a balanced decision, a balanced resolution on the selmayr case.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to welcome the work of the tripartite agencies eurofound, eu-osha and cedefop. these agencies are valuable tools for european policy-making and we have seen this in our work. they have one particular feature which i would like to stress: they are managed in a tripartite manner, i.e. they allow the active participation of the states but also of the social partners, namely the employers' representatives and the trade union representatives. in our different opinions, my colleagues and i are unanimous in the need to preserve the tripartite nature of these agencies. finally, i would like to welcome the indispensable nature of the work of these agencies, but we must give them the means to do so. in recent times these agencies have had to reduce their staff, and they have done so responsibly, but we cannot continue down this path if we want them to continue to provide us with quality work. i thank my fictitious rapporteurs for the work they have helped me to do.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, first of all i would like to respond to mr oettinger's offer to have a wider debate on the role and position of the agencies in the parliament-commission-council triangle. absolutely, i think we should. secondly, i support mrs gräßle in saying that the debate with the council should be strengthened. mrs panoyotova, we have submitted a non-paper to the council asking: is this a document to be discussed, is it part of a way of finding a solution and of getting a discharge from the council worthy of the name? so i ask you: i would like to see the council take this up quickly so that we can start these negotiations. thirdly, i must say to mr zeller that i am very pleased with the report he has presented. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. it's not working. good things are being mentioned, for example the european youth fund, very good things. and finally, i should like to stress that where things are going well with european currencies, we must continue to talk about it. we are pro-european. we must show that europe really matters.
president, we have seen how commission president juncker has appointed his chief of staff, mr selmayr, to a political post, secretary-general of the european commission. that is the way european christian democrats deal with the distribution of postcards. today at 12 o'clock we voted in the european parliament on a very clear resolution on this subject with very sharp language. what does that resolution say? that this looks like a coup d'etat. the commission is asked to reconsider this and other candidates should be given the opportunity to apply in a transparent procedure. the commission's response arrived at 12.50 p.m., barely half an hour later. and what is that response? we will ignore the parliament's resolution altogether. this is absolutely embarrassing. this is shameful and it is surprising that the support for the european union is being undermined. mr selmayr should resign his appointment immediately. and as far as i am concerned, mr juncker can leave immediately.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of personal data. moreover, such data is often sold without the knowledge of the individual. the right to privacy and the protection of the digital space are therefore more important than ever. as legislators, we have a duty to protect our citizens from abuse of privacy, but we also have a duty to ensure the safety of our citizens. the right to privacy cannot be an absolute right. today, we see very clearly that terrorists too often slip through the cracks of the net by abusing the right to privacy. investigators complain that they often run after the facts. for example, they can't access stored data like whatsapp messages in which terrorists discuss attacks. the right to privacy allows these terrorists to continue their criminal activities anonymously and with impunity. this is an unintended and undesirable side effect of the right to privacy. so we need to work on a more balanced balance between privacy and security. it is not the intention to protect one to destroy the other. privacy and security should be able to coexist, not be separated. we must therefore prevent the misuse of digital space, whether by tech giants or by criminals and terrorists.
mr president, the scandal we are talking about today with cambridge analytica and facebook reminds me in some ways of the other scandal we have already had to deal with in this legislation: the dieselgate scandal. the comparisons are a large multinational which is shockingly damaging the confidence of europeans and other people in the world. that we are dealing with powerful multinationals is clear. it's about millions of data points that are also going to make billions. you can see it very clearly: in 2006, the five most important, largest and most powerful companies were all energy and oil companies. and today -- i don't know if that's a good evolution, probably a little bit -- are the big five, the big data and internet companies. that's kind of the point i want to make in addition to the justified plea for e-privacy and the justified pride we may feel in our own regulation, but we also need to look at it more broadly. it's about something that has a very big and deep impact on our society, it's about companies that today pay little or no tax, and that also needs to be part of the solution when we look at this scandal.
president. - in the weeks and months before the paris attacks, the terrorist salah abdeslam used an anonymous prepaid credit card from bpost to travel around europe. this is just one example of how terrorists and other criminals abuse the eu's internal borders. using anonymous credit cards, virtual currencies, and shady companies of all kinds, criminals can conduct financial transactions undetected. that is why i welcome the measures adopted today. stricter rules on the anonymity of prepaid credit cards and virtual currencies such as bitcoin, more transparency on key figures behind bank accounts and companies, and better data exchange between authorities within and between member states, as timely access to the right information is essential in an investigation. so, steps in the right direction, but more is needed. let us therefore speed up the implementation of additional measures in the fight against terrorism.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr dalton, for all his good work. i think the dieselgate has exposed a harsh reality, namely that the current rules have failed. i am therefore very pleased with these new, more efficient rules which send a strong political signal to close the loopholes in the legislative net. that way we can make it clear that this can and should never happen again. it is only through good cooperation between the member states and europe that we will be able to protect our public health, our environment and, in short, the european citizen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
mr president, it is now more than two years since we heard that one of the giants of the car industry had tampered with the emission measurements of their cars. as a result, a committee of inquiry was set up, and we worked together to find out what caused it. but more importantly, we had to find a way to prevent such consumer fraud in the future. we then made a number of recommendations based on our findings. when i look at the proposal before us today, i am pleased to see that many of these have been taken up. a proposal for lower emissions and cleaner air for our children and grandchildren is therefore a proposal i support.
the promotion and support of organic farming is a legitimate political priority for the european union. because organic is a double win: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the products. despite strong growth in recent decades, the share of organic farming in the european agricultural area is only 6%. my region of flanders is even lagging behind. only a good 1% of our land is organic. it's got to be much better than that, because we're also seeing exponential demand. europe cannot even cope with the demand for organic food, and so organic food is increasingly being imported. the question now is: how do we make sure our farmers choose organic farming? how can we strengthen them and at the same time safeguard their competitive position? so, how do we make bioproduct interesting? the report contains a number of interesting points and also a groundbreaking innovation: finally, farmers will be able to produce in a mixed way. provided that the activities are clearly separated, traditional farming may be combined with organic farming. this is a way for farmers to make the transition gradually. the two or three years of transition are over, and that is a good thing. at least as important: the eu has a long history of providing financial support to non-eu countries. i think that is very important for fair competition. this legislation has cost blood, sweat and tears, but after 20 months of negotiations and 18 trialogue meetings, i think europe can be proud. it's me, all right.
on behalf of the group of the european right, i would like to thank mr ramon, rapporteur, and my dear friend, for your hard and excellent work here in parliament. commissioner, it is always a pleasure to see your passion and enthusiasm for european competition policy. you're right, of course. unity in diversity is the slogan of the european union, but some people put more emphasis on unity. we all have to do the same. member states must start to transcend their own individuality. diversity is seen as a weakness. we must ensure that there is no competition, and certainly not between countries. the opposite is true. the opposite is true, our european civilization is different from others precisely because we have seen this rivalry, this competition throughout our history. it's what makes us who we are. the competition between kingdoms, between principalities, between city states has ensured that we still live through the european miracle and that the european miracle has been made possible. we'll see in the results. we have cities that are flourishing, we have trade networks, we have schools, we have universities. we see the flowering of philosophy and of science, our literature, our culture. all of this has been made possible by competition, including our unprecedented economic progress. not in spite of our political fragmentation, but because of the very fact that we are different and we compete with each other. our diversity is a strength. it's not a weakness, and we have to cherish it. so today i ask that we celebrate that competition. let us celebrate the report of our good friend ramon tremosa. let us not succumb to any imposed urge of absolute equality. unity, yes, but in diversity.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened very carefully. let me start with one remark. i vaccinate myself every year against influenza. i did it many years ago against hepatitis and yellow fever also. as a cardio-surgeon, i had an obligation to vaccinate myself. why? because i was responsible. because it was dangerous for my patients if there was any possibility of my transmitting infection from me to my patients. in response to arne gericke, a very simple message: let’s do it together and let’s save children’s health. when we are talking about children’s rights, about the convention on children’s rights, children have the right to as high as possible a level of health protection. it does not matter that sometimes parents do not understand it, but who is responsible for saving children’s lives? only the parents? no. we are all responsible. the state has a responsibility to guarantee conventional requirements, to implement. of course some countries have mandatory vaccination, but more than half of european union countries have mandatory vaccinations and calendars. that is ok. some have only voluntary. ok. some have a mixture. but we know very well that awareness, information and possibilities and our personal willingness to raise awareness and to be together and extend our health immunity is our own obligation also. i am a medical doctor. for me it is very difficult to listen to today’s issues. ms rivasi raised some very important questions. you know that pharmacolovigilance is in place. you know that all vaccines go through very thorough scientific assessment, through who checks, through ema checks. no, no, it is true. and we are always blaming conflicts of interest and showing up a bad industry. once again there are fears in this house. please present the evidence. that is the question. and of course we know very well that conflicts of interest should be addressed and we have a lot of tools to do this. speaking about general food law, we know very well we will also discuss issues about conflicts of interest. efsa, ema or ecdc it does not matter which. but look, that is not the main problem. the main problem is how to really encourage people and restore trust in science, and be together. you and i, we are both responsible for that. we can go on addressing issues and disseminating messages on pandemics saying these are because of industry or experts. i am sorry. what about rabies? what about zoonoses. what about lumpy skin disease? what about african swine fever, the pandemics? we are all asking for effective vaccination for animals, but when we are talking about children, about people, immediately we raise different issues. what about rabies? we are using vaccinations and we have eliminated rabies now. can you explain that to me by using a conspiracy theory only about bad industry? no, of course not. i am sorry for being a little bit emotional, but people listening to you and to me also need to hear and to have common consensus that it is so dangerous, and it is such a sensitive issue to see children dying. i would like to address issues relating to greece. yes, we are cooperating in a very close manner and now we have some project, which i am sorry to say is called ‘fevers’. we have dedicated eur 29 million to addressing the related issues. we are cooperating very closely with the greek government, which is in favour of addressing all therse issues. i have a good personal relationship with the minister. i am happy about this. thank you very much indeed generally for the constructive discussion. your debate is also very timely in that we are showing the political importance of vaccination in europe precisely on the eve of the world immunisation week. i believe we all have a collective responsibility to ensure that today’s debate is actually followed up with concrete action by the commission, the council and the parliament and by each of you in your respective constituencies. i am worried that if we fail to act, children will continue to die from vaccine—preventable diseases in the 21st century. once again it is unacceptable. i am not willing to accept that outcome. we should focus in particular on increasing vaccination coverage. the main goal is not about mandatory or voluntary, it is about possibilities to achieve a safe level of coverage, 95% or more. this is the main level, and increasing outreach to the most vulnerable groups. how many vulnerable groups are on our side? please look at roma issues and different situations in romania. we need to start increasing the compatibility of vaccination schedules, ensuring vaccination supply and, crucially, supporting member states in their efforts to increase trust and immunisation and, of course, to register all side effects – as who can deny there ate side effects? no one. because you have side effects when eating a meal, and with allergens you can see side effects. side effects are a reality, there is a need to register, to be vigilant, to address, to assess the situation, to improve, there is no doubt. but do not disseminate fear about vaccines. i would like especially to thank ms gentile and all of you for your engagement, your passion and commitment to the subject, and in the first place the co—signatories of the motion for a resolution. you have already had the occasion to hear my views on this topic in other fora. vaccination is a personal priority of mine, and i look forward to working closely with you in the future. i believe that working together we can succeed.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for giving me the opportunity to exchange with you on these very topical issue. after the emotional and very argumented intervention of the commissioner, i would like to say that, indeed, vaccine hesitancy is a worrying phenomenon that needs to be addressed, as well as other obstacles to a wider vaccination coverage. again, the presidency is looking forward to the forthcoming commission proposal for a council recommendation on the strengthening cooperation against vaccine of preventable diseases, which the council will examine.
in writing. in one year, the number of europeans infected with measles has quadrupled to over 20 000. of those, 35 did not survive the disease. this trend confirms that the declining vaccination rate poses a huge risk to public health across the eu. more and more parents and patients are delaying or even refusing to vaccinate their children. diseases that were almost eradicated in europe, such as measles, are reappearing with disastrous consequences. the positive effect of vaccination is undeniable. every vaccination counts, because the better the population is vaccinated, the harder it is for a germ to spread. it is a matter of solidarity, so that people with reduced immunity can also be protected. it is also unacceptable that years of medical progress should be undermined by misleading information. it's not possible because of the political frenzy of fake news about vaccines for electoral gain. medical staff have a critical role to play in providing patients with clear information about vaccines so that everyone has a fair chance of protection.
- a writer. mr president, i would first of all like to thank the members, because we had difficult and difficult negotiations yesterday, but i am very proud of the result, the compromise that has been reached today. it is a compromise that we are going to support in unity and it does say in very clear language, in the language of unity, what we really mean. we all condemn the violence, we all call for an immediate end to it. we also show in unity that we are not naive. we know, of course, the role played by the terrorist organization hamas. we are also united in our resolution calling for an independent inquiry. and yes, we applaud israel's launching its own investigation, which we will also be looking into. i think it's very important that we have an independent investigation into what really happened there. we're also sending an important signal by calling for the end of the blockade. because the humanitarian situation in gaza is dramatic. that is why this resolution must be a wake-up call, the second of many.
mr president, i would like to say to mr preda that if he wants to do something useful in the fight against anti-semitism, he can leave the ranks of the epp, mr orbán, who is the first european anti-semite and who has made irresponsible remarks about the jewish people. as regards gaza in particular, this territory has been the victim of three wars in less than six years, and has been under an israeli blockade for more than ten years. gaza, two million palestinians living in 300 square kilometers without a way out, without electricity or water, without education or jobs, is a humanitarian disaster. this is what the palestinians living in gaza are protesting against, and the only israeli response has been to fire live ammunition at unarmed protesters. the reaction, again by israel, is neither legitimate nor acceptable, it is illegal. i would also like to pay tribute to israeli civil society, such as the ngo b'tselem, which is asking the israeli soldiers not to shoot. i ask the europeans to be as courageous as israeli civil society and to take sanctions against israeli policies.
in writing. this resolution concerns the recent uprisings in gaza. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners. n-va defends freedom of expression but condemns all forms of violence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we want the political dialogue to be resumed as soon as possible and work towards a two-state solution.
madam president, i voted with both hands on this resolution on what is affectionately called 'vaccination reluctance'. i'll be a little more direct. the anti-vaccine rhetoric is downright irresponsible! a parent who makes this choice not only puts the health of their child at risk but also the health of the rest of society, since the child can then transmit and pass on the virus. more than 30 000 infections, some of them fatal, could be prevented each year in europe if vaccination were carried out correctly. thirty thousand is a lot! for example, measles outbreaks are now re-emerging in parts of europe, and children are dying from them. in 2018, this is completely unbearable. of course, everything is there: conspiracy theories, collusion, lobbying, the pharmaceutical industry. the facts are that europe is now the most vaccine-sceptical region in the world, the very place where the enlightenment, pasteur and modern medicine were born. the world is going upside down, madam president.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i don’t know if this is my third or fourth multiannual financial framework. i think for jean—claude juncker, it is his fifth or sixth. let us be honest: as i said a few times to commissioner oettinger, it will be business as usual in this mff. it can still be business as usual because this proposal has to go to the council and it is there that it is business as usual: trying to get the maximum amount of money from the budget without paying a lot into that budget. personally, i think that this mff is a break with the past. it’s not a revolution, but it’s a break with the past on four elements. the first is that we had two decades of mffs and budgets being reduced and, for the first time, we are going up again. we went down to 1% and we are going up to 1.14%. it’s not a revolution, but it’s on the right track. the second is the priorities. for the first time, i see serious cuts where they are necessary and new money where it is necessary: innovation, research, erasmus. border management will increase a lot, to a total of eur 34 billion over the seven—year period. i see a third break with the past: finally, new own resources – a battle that started 10 years ago. the council has refused to introduce them every time, but now we are going from 70% to 60% gni contributions and own resources are going up. i think there have been good proposals on carbon taxation, plastics, corporate tax, and there is mr bullmann’s proposal that you can take with you. lastly, i think the fourth break with the past is the conditionality in the budget – respect for the rule of law. we have to be very clear about this, commissioner. it is also very simple, colleagues. if a government of a member state of the european union wants to apply and to respect european values, they do not need european money to do that. that’s the reality that we need to include in this budget. european money, in my opinion, should be used to lift up our national economies, to lift up our citizens and not be given or be granted to mr orban’s family or to finance one or more new football stadiums in his constituency. that is not a reason for spending the money. finally, i think that we are taking a huge step forward and my request to you is to help us to take the last step forward. that is in the power of parliament. we always receive beautiful speeches here from the heads of state and government. tomorrow we will have another one from my prime minister, and we will have another within a few weeks. they all talk about the virtue of european democracy, but in reality this is the only parliament worldwide which has no say about its income. we only have a say about expenditure. that has to change now. in my opinion, mr commissioner, there will be no green light from this parliament for whatever deal you make with the council if there is no principle agreement with the council that gives full responsibility for expenditure and income to the council and to parliament. mr juncker, we count on your support because the council will be stubborn on this issue – we know that. they think, ‘it is all money and we decide on it’. no, it is more and more money from companies and citizens, and it’s our own resources. who represents the companies and the citizens? we, the european parliament, represent them. i count on your full support to help us to obtain that responsibility and then to get the green light for this more ambitious mff. (applause)
mr president, commissioner, it is mainly as co-rapporteur, with mr lewandowski, of the report on own resources that i wish to speak and really welcome the commission's proposal to introduce new own resources to feed the budget of the european union. you are right to do so because article 311 of the treaty, which has been misused for a long time, must be respected, and you are also right to do so because you know very well that the european parliament's approval of the multiannual financial framework is inextricably linked to the adoption of new own resources. i would like to make a few positive comments on the own resources aspect, subject of course to further consideration. first, the fact that you propose a package, which ensures a sufficient flow of budget revenues and avoids disproportionate burdens in the event of misallocation of revenues. secondly, the fact that the new own resources proposed by the commission are in line with what was proposed in the monti report and in our report - mr lewandowski and myself - gives me reason to believe, mr president, commissioner, that you will act in full cooperation with the european parliament on this matter. finally, i would like to welcome the fact that, according to what we have been told, the new own resources are also instruments for achieving two of the union's strategic objectives. firstly, to ensure the better functioning of the internal market, which is the case in particular with the own resources provided for in the framework of the consolidated corporate tax base, and secondly, to protect the environment and combat global warming, which is the case with the two proposals you have mentioned. but i regret like other speakers that nothing is being done about taxing digital companies that have developed an unacceptable strategy of tax avoidance.
what is the european budget supposed to look like, mr president? if there is one constant in the plans of the european parliament and the european commission, it is that member states should be allowed to pay more to close the brexit gap and to tackle a number of new challenges. should we start investing more in security and in curbing migration and research and development? yes, of course we should. but what we want to ask is that we finally do the exercise very seriously. the european commission now wants belgium to pay at least 600 million euros more each year, perhaps even a lot more. the european union also wants to introduce new european taxes. and who's gonna pay for it? always the same! and what countries get? it is also the same countries, and that is not right. the european union is more than a cash machine. there are also countries which are now able to produce better growth rates and should also contribute more. those who want new european priorities have the right to demand them. but it must also have the courage to scrap outdated projects. and that courage, that ambition, i still miss it, unfortunately.
mr president, mr commissioner, you said in your introduction that you had two problems that you had to face when you were looking to the mff, that is on one hand brexit, which we all know about, and on the other hand, the new challenges. and that sort of wraps up the proposal that the commission is making today. yes, we do appreciate initiatives to get a bigger budget, although it’s small. we do appreciate the own resources, although we would have wanted to have more ambitious own resources. but what is crucial for us is that, if you asked me what are the two main challenges that europe should face and handle and tackle, i would say they are the growing inequalities in the world and in europe, and climate change. we’ve made an agreement in the framework of the united nations and it’s called sdgs, and in your introduction, mr commissioner, neither you or juncker mentioned the stgs, and i think it’s so extremely important that we use this budget to make sure that all the money that we spend in all these sectors is used to come up with good results on the sustainable development goals. i think those are the real priorities of this european union.
member of the commission. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we have listened with great interest to your arguments, your priorities and your criticisms, and the fact that our two colleagues, mr crețu and mr hogan, have been present throughout, alongside our president, mr juncker, as representatives of the two largest budget programmes, is also a clear sign of our respect for your priorities and our willingness to develop our proposal further. this is a first strike, no more, no less. the proposal which has been put to you has received 28 votes in the commission. it was unanimously adopted by all the commissioners. i do not believe that unanimity could ever be achieved in this house. we have a wide range of disappointingly low to outrageously high. but the same group that said 'unreasonably high' demanded no cuts in cohesion, and certainly not in agriculture. we're doing the best we can. but please, let us always, each one of us, see the whole, let's look at the whole picture. there are friends of the cap, friends of cohesion, perhaps we should also set up friends of horizon for mr ehler, there are friends of donald trump. i am a friend of europe, and i know one thing: if the british, with 65 million people, are going to be the second largest economy in europe - the second largest so-called net contributor - this is a change, and you can't pretend that everything is staying the way it is. cohesion in the field of education: of course, mrs crețu fought for an increase. but we will invest in the next seven years the same amount in nominal terms for regions, municipalities, infrastructure as in the current mff, only not a euro in the uk, but for 27. we will use the same amount in the eu-27 as we do now in the eu-28 in the case of low inflation. i didn't think this was going to be possible. cohesion is still a priority, with at least 30% of the budget modernised and with new tasks. agrar: my request: let's see the whole thing. i am very close to the countryside and agriculture, but i tell you: i have to defend to the media, to the public, to the taxpayers, to many others, that there is an agricultural subsidy at all. let's face it, 5% is a very reasonable cut, considering the second largest net contributor is leaving. you can't expect a rich uncle to go or die and the presents under the christmas tree stay the same number and the same size. let us always look at the big picture and be realistic. the issue of digital tax has been mentioned several times. i would like to make one thing clear: our proposal is on the council's table. we have the g20, the oecd in the discussion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because if i were to cut 10 billion, times 77 billion or even increasing 100 billion, and the whole thing blows up or is just as much a vision that threatens to become an illusion as the financial transaction tax, then we'd have a problem. we need revenue proposals that are based on legislation or based on probability. i therefore agree with you, mr bullmann and other members: the sooner progress can be made in the council and parliament in the next few weeks - and my colleague mr moscovici is fighting for this - the sooner we can get the european finance ministers - olaf scholz and colleagues - to agree to this and then allow the money to go into the european treasury. the commission has already proposed that the budget should be increased by ecu 1 billion, and that the commission should be able to submit a supplementary proposal to the council in the autumn of next year. you've had me on board since day one, when the whole of budgetary probability and maturity sufficed. this is not rejection, this is not neutrality. we want to do that, but first the communication of this proposal, then the progress in the council, and then the amount will be set accordingly for the discharge or for the supplement on top in our mff proposal presented today. we want to reduce defence spending, we want to invest more and save money. if 27 member states invest individually - we know this - it will be much more expensive than if they invest together in procurement, industry and research. and that is why the sums we want to set aside are not a contribution to the arms industry, but a contribution to taxpayers and efficiency. because we know that for one dollar, the american people get many times what a greek, a german, a maltese, a spaniard, a frenchman, an irishman gets for his defense investments. we're saving money. it is the opposite of austerity, to set european standards efficiently, to make european tenders, and thus to achieve discounts and economies of scale that are possible in other countries - the us and others. turkey's aid has largely been frozen. what you are paying for is human dignity for refugees in turkey shelter, cold, heat, food, clothing, education. we must now agree on another three billion - hopefully in the next few days - so that the teachers who teach 300,000 children can get a new contract for september and so that there is a perspective for children and basic education in these refugee camps. that's why your post isn't really showing up. it is not about palaces in ankara, it is not about an airport in istanbul, it is about the human dignity of 1.2 million people fleeing from iraq, afghanistan or syria. and that is why we are talking about a - i mean - a christian image of man, which must also be important to us outside europe. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) and whoever says "nonsense" is fine. but "nonsense" is not an argument. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) give my regards to donald trump. i think your speech was pure nonsense. (applause from the centre) we have been asked by mr lewandowski about the own resources. it is intended to be 10 to 12% of revenue over the period. but as some of the own funds will not come until 2023 , the percentage is less than you expected. that means my numbers were above the seven-year average. i understand you weren't happy with the reschedule. i'm grateful for this flexibility. what's the matter? the commission had its meeting this morning, as usual, on wednesday, and we wanted to inform the press, but i cannot inform the press at 6 p.m. that would not do justice to the importance of our common theme. perhaps we should vote even more strongly on important issues in the future, when we are in the chamber, when we go directly to you, when you are ready for meetings and when the press is still our partner in a press conference before the end of the day. we have made the most of it today by the willingness of the president and my president to move the sitting to 1 p.m. it should not be a smear against colleagues who could not be present. all the more reason for my gratitude for your presence at such an unusual hour. the budget is not ambitious enough. i say to you that i need and have unanimity in the commission. i don't need unanimity here, i'm going for a majority in this house. but i need unanimity in the council i am going to this evening. and i can tell you that in the last few days i have been shown the limits by elected officials in the member states from which you come, by the parties to which you belong. so let 's make a deal . i will speak to my chancellor, mr bullmann, mr olaf scholz, mrs grossetête and the republicans about supporting mr macron with an ambitious proposal in the council. and then we'll be back. then we'll see what realism is. i am well aware that in some countries, while not calling for a cut in the cap, there is no willingness or readiness to make additional payments. the squaring of the circle rarely works in politics. we should do everything we can to convince the council that at least our proposal is 1,114 the amount. if it's more, we'll take it with us. let's fight against cuts together. we would have the best arguments for our proposal, at least, and perhaps for further investment and reduction of cuts. in this sense, i am very grateful that parliament sees this as a priority and that, despite all the criticism, a large majority sees our draft as the basis for results-oriented, intensive, constructive discussions. if i have to leave now, i apologize to my colleagues on the cont committee, but i have to go to the press conference. my colleague mrs crețu is ready today - thank you - to represent the pif report and therefore olaf to you in this parliament. (applause from the centre)
in writing. we are at a crossroads with europe: brexit is coming and we have to choose which direction we want to go. the priorities in the new multiannual budget which the european commission is putting on the table today are the right ones. security, effective border control, innovation in sustainable energy connections and self-driving cars, social protection: these are the areas where europe can make a difference. the people rightly expect europe to protect them. the commission wants to increase the eu's border and coast guard force considerably: the number of border guards has gone from 1 200 to 1 000. that's a good thing. these choices also require a clear budgetary translation. explaining that this requires additional resources and that eurosceptics are wrong to call for less europe is crucial for the future of this continent. that is not to say that we should not save and keep a critical eye on expenditure. it is good that there is tighter control over the money going to the member states. eu funds must be made conditional on effective anti-corruption and respect for the rule of law. member states will continue to be obliged to finance programmes such as eramus+, but from their own resources. countries which make a significant contribution to refugee reception will then receive additional support. these are also priorities which we support.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. mr president, when things are not going well in the european union, we are critical. i think you're right. when things are going well, we must have the courage to acknowledge that and be able to acknowledge that. frankly, the european investment bank is doing quite well, perhaps because it is an intergovernmental cooperation between member states that has grown from the bottom up because they want to cooperate and not because they are forced to do so from the top down. i find it interesting, for example, to see the european investment bank acknowledging that our flemish government is also doing serious work. we see this very clearly, because a loan of one billion euros has been approved by the european investment bank for our eastern european welfare plans. that way we can do some serious work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. any work on the shelf? yes, and that is also acknowledged in this good report. i would particularly like to underline the work for our smes. they too must have access to quick financing more than ever before and we therefore call on the european investment bank to remove the obstacles and barriers.
the commissioner, i would like to start by allowing one of the refugee children to speak. i'd like to start with nimo, who was 6 when she fled somalia. we stayed in the sahara for a long time, more than 3 months. we slept outside on the floor. we used our shoes as pillows. the men who took us were mean. anyone who ran away was beaten with a stick. because you had to pay first, or you couldn't leave. the smugglers once told grandma they'd let her go if she'd give me to the men. thankfully, she did not. there you go, little nimo. this story shows me very clearly that this debate and this resolution on children in migration are very much needed. ladies and gentlemen, two years ago europol came out with a report which clearly stated that ten thousand unaccompanied minor asylum seekers had disappeared in europe. the children would have ended up in prostitution, in child labour, killed for their organs or living with their families in another european country, without us knowing. i presented a book last week called "where are they?" where are they? and i must say that i have been able to quote some startling figures for belgium. in 2017, 124 missing children were reported to child focus in belgium. and do you know how many at the custody service? 618! what are you doing? how could you do that? how is it that in belgium we do not even have the correct figures on disappearances? but, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case in belgium alone. i've made calls to other countries, too. in italy, the figure is 5700, in austria, it is close to 700, in sweden 318, in the netherlands 290. but there is really no one, no one in europe, who can give the exact figure, and that in itself is a real shame. that is why we are actually glad that this resolution is putting things straight. let's start with numbers so we have the data. the first. biometric data, photographs, fingerprints and of course, taken in a child-friendly manner and only to protect them. the second. child-friendly and humane. no more prisons! appointment of guardians, psychological counselling and education. the third. faster family reunification within europe. that can take months, too. the commissioner has said that, in her book, if a child disappears it is a "ticket to hell". let us create awareness; let us find them; let's just do it
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i wish to welcome prime minister michel to the european parliament, the heart of european democracy. mr michel, i welcome you also as a belgian citizen, being very proud to belong to a country that has stood at the cradle of the european union. you are my belgian prime minister, but in a sense you are also the prime minister of all the people in this parliament, because half of the time they live in brussels, they go to our restaurants, they drink belgian beer... (mixed reactions)... they do. brussels is not just the capital of belgium; brussels is the heart of europe. in that sense belgium has given a lot to europe, but europe also has also given a lot to belgium. prime minister, that is what europe is all about. it’s about working together, about solidarity and creating – at least it should create – added value for our member states, but mostly for our citizens. that is what our group, the socialists and democrats, fight for on a daily basis. when we talk about the future of europe, we want more ambition in the social pillar, madam commissioner, we want fair taxation, we want to be a proud europe in the rest of the world and we want to implement the sustainable development goals when we talk about the multiannual financial framework. prime minister, i do not – absolutely do not – doubt your attachment to european values and i heard that in your speech, but i have a big concern, a very big concern, because there’s a huge gap between your very nice speech of today – i do not agree with everything but it was a good speech, it was a pro-european speech – and what belgium these days does on an everyday basis in the council. (applause)you talked about the corporate tax base, the cctb, and said you’re in favour, but this morning, on national radio, i was with the nva – your coalition partner – and they said they are against this, and your minister of finance is against more solidarity on taxation in europe on a daily basis. (applause) as it is on the financial transaction tax, so it is when it comes to the taxation of the giants of the digital world. that really is of concern. i mean that. belgium has always been a bridge—builder in europe – always – connecting the different big member states to each other. you have lost that, which will be your historical responsibility, and it’s because you have a coalition and back home you need to listen to your big coalition partner, the flemish nationalists, who are riding more and more on euroscepticism in europe. that really is a big concern to me. mijnheer de eerste minister, ik ga over naar mijn moedertaal, die u zeer goed kent en zeer goed spreekt. ik apprecieer dat enorm. dat is ook iets europees, verschillende talen spreken. ik wil nog een laatste belangrijk punt aanstippen. als ik hier met mijn collega’s spreek en ze hebben het over belgië, dan komt heel snel het probleem van de nucleaire veiligheid naar boven. mijn franse, mijn duitse collega's, mijn nederlandse collega's liggen meer wakker van de nucleaire veiligheid dan de belgische regering en dat kan niet langer! (applaus) het wordt hoog tijd dat de belgische regering daar de juiste ....– mijnheer loones u schudt uw hoofd. neen! deze week nog is er in doel 1 opnieuw een lekkage. een nucleaire installatie met scheurtjes is onaanvaardbaar. en, mijnheer de eerste minister, ook daar moet je de europese kaart trekken. nucleaire veiligheid is niet de verantwoordelijkheid alleen van een lidstaat. dat doe je in nauwe samenwerking met alle lidstaten en zeker met je buurlanden. mijnheer de eerste minister, ik reken op u om de kerncentrales zeer snel te sluiten.
on behalf of the group of the european right thank you, mr president, and especially to prime minister michel of belgium for your speech here in the european parliament. i am grateful to you for not giving that speech in strasbourg but here in brussels, the capital of the european union, and i think that all the members of parliament who always vote for the abolition of the strasbourg circus of moving houses would be satisfied and should be here to listen to your speech. mr prime minister, i speak today on behalf of our group, the european conservatives and reformists. and yes, i am also speaking as vice-chairman of my party, the n-va, as i said earlier, for those who are not aware of the situation. in belgium we are in government together, the party of prime minister michel and our party, the n-va. we agree on some subjects, as we always do, and we differ on others. in fact, cooperation with the european union is one of those subjects on which we do have some differences of opinion on a number of points. unity in diversity. that is the motto of european cooperation. your party is more in favour of this unity, this european harmonization. in my party, we value diversity more. we see the european union as a cooperation of sovereign countries, of regions, each with its own tradition, each with its own culture, its own identity and with healthy competition between those regions, between those countries, which makes european cooperation really flourish. it was a real pleasure, mr weber, to hear you praise the regions, the cultural diversity and identity which are the richness of european cooperation. but, mr prime minister, we differ on a number of points. at the same time, you're a sensible man. that's how i know you. i also know that you are a politician who is convinced of european cooperation, and that is where we find each other. you're taking a more realistic approach. we have not heard a speech today of unbridled european activism. we didn't hear any european air castles. what we have heard is a more realistic speech, because you realize that we will not convince the population with these air castles. the result of this change in outlook is that belgium's tone of voice in the european and international debate has indeed changed somewhat in recent years. the belgian voice sounds a little more nordic than it used to, with a little more common sense. i am not going to go into the details of the budget. for the first time, belgium is a net contributor. that's never happened in the past. we're also a net payer. we will therefore have to examine expenditure in depth, analyse it and cut back where necessary, as you rightly point out. in your speech you also spoke of european values and the need to defend them, including within europe. we agree on that, too. for you, and i'm very pleased to hear that, values are not vague principles. for you, it is something very concrete, something very tangible. you're willing to do that, even when others doubt or deny it. we have seen this for example in the referendum in catalonia. at that time, prime minister michel, you were the first head of government, the first ever, to condemn violence, police violence, spanish police violence against innocent people who are going to vote. you have condemned this and rightly so, because violence against innocent people is simply anti-european, it is against our european values. we also see a change in belgium in the field of migration. we are now back on the right side of a stricter and more coherent policy. we are not advocating open borders. - no, it's the opposite. we see that parties that do lose the support of the population for that. the fact that they are losing elections is also evident in several european countries. and then there is the big cliff, the future of the eurozone. the big debate for the next few months. i am pleased to note that belgium is also increasingly taking the side of the realists. we must improve the functioning of the euro zone, but no one is waiting for european leaflets. our government does not want a european finance ministry. we do not want a big eurozone budget and european taxes. so we really have to ask ourselves whether that is such a good idea for the support of the european union. i don't think so, not yet. now, as i said, there are similarities between our parties. there are differences, too. you are more concerned with solidarity, we are more concerned with responsibility. you rightly emphasize that taxation and social security are member states' competences. at the same time, you want to support the cctb, which is something that is more in the interests of the large member states of the european union. we believe that we must be able to defend jobs in small member states too and that we must not lose them. but i do see differences, but above all, many points of common ground, and that is why i would like to conclude with a call. we know you have a close relationship with president macron of france. but you're not bringing the same story. you are presenting a story which is actually a little bit closer to what the european citizens want and can afford today. and i would like to call on prime minister michel: hold it right there! keep bringing that realistic story and you will see that you will find strong partners, more and more in this european union. you will find those partners with a similar story in our european group, the european conservatives and reformists, if you choose unity, but in diversity. in variety!
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i will begin in the native language of our prime minister, charles michel, to thank him for his pro-european vision. i like your speech better than the interpretation given by mr loones. it seems that mr loones has heard another speech, i do not know which, but a speech that was given in the flemish parliament or in the belgian federal parliament. i would therefore like to thank you for your pro-european vision, as you have expressed it, and this in the great pro-european tradition that exists in belgium. the vision of one of our predecessors, and i am still quoting paul-henri spaak, who said: 'all european countries are small but there are two categories: those who know it and those who do not know it yet'. this is a great reality and this is our approach, as belgians, to european policy. indeed, ladies and gentlemen, i will explain to you because mr loones did not do so, that for belgians, whether they are flemish, walloon or brussels citizens, being pro-european, what we are, is not a matter of choice, it is an existential question. our country, our lands have been for too long the battlefield of all europe, stuck as we were between germany on the one hand, and france on the other. they've all been here: the french, the germans - twice - the spanish, the dutch, the austrians, and even the italians if i go back to roman times, but maybe that's too far in the past. all the great conflicts - and this is no joke - in european history have been fought here on these lands: wars of religion, wars of succession, trench wars with millions of deaths, and the first use of gas, of chemical weapons in the world, 100 km from here. and, of course, the war against nazism - the worst of all nationalisms. it is therefore clear that for us - and i want to say this directly to mr loones, who has not yet understood it - there is only one possible future for our lands and for our peoples: a common future and a european destiny. all the rest, mr prime minister - i need not tell you - are lies, tricks, dreams which very quickly become nightmares, as we saw in the 19th and early 20th centuries. only europe can save us from this misery and these atrocities of the past. i am telling you all this, my dear colleagues, to tell you that it is not the chocolate, not the beer, not tintin, not the damned system that you all know - because you apply it - that are typically belgian, no, it is our love for europe, it is our passion for the european project that are typical of our country. a project, mr president, which is threatened today not only by nationalists and populists - we know them and see them almost every day, they are among our colleagues - but also by political leaders at national level, who are also found in all the political families represented in this chamber. political leaders - i am not talking about you, you are one of the few exceptions - who are showing themselves to the outside world as pro-european, but who in reality are doing nothing to move the project forward. i would say that they are doing the opposite today, which is a disgrace to the founding fathers of the european union who had a different vision of europe than we know today. so it is wrong to say that people do not like europe; people love europe, but they do not like the european union as it works today. that is what is wrong with them, as we saw again yesterday. i now turn to the language of vondel, as they say, dutch. we have not seen the last of this yesterday, mr president of the commission. a number of reactions say: 1.11% of the european gross domestic product is much too much! europe is getting smaller, britain is going out. it is not our decision, so it must be a smaller budget. well, i say to all my colleagues: the truth is the opposite! i want to give you some reasons. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and the european union is a major player in the world economy. we need a european border and coast guard. we have a european defence. we do indeed need a european budget for the euro area. the action of europe does not cost more money. it's not that we're not going to save money. because many of the expenditure which is not actually necessary is done at national level, because eleven national member states do the same thing 28 times today! the european union could have added value. i have so many examples. military waste. mr vandeput can tell you. he has told you everything. we give 42% out of american spending. we can only do 10 to 15% of american operations. why? because we have 28 times done. the same applies, for example, to the management of external borders. mr president of the commission, you made the proposal yesterday. we are going to spend 34 billion euro on better management of our external borders over seven years. americans spend $34 billion in a single year to do the same thing. i invite the eleven national heads of government to come to this parliament yesterday and say that the management of our external borders must be a priority of the european union for which new money must be made available. i invite them to forget that yesterday and come say it to their own kiezers. europe is not made up of vijand van de burgers. europe is the best security that citizens can have. i ask you, mr prime minister, let this never be lost. i want to be a german-french driver. the best engine also has to have oil, and in other words, the belgian compromise, an art which is so well mastered.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is curious, however, that every time it is my turn, you remind us that we must respect the time limit for speaking, and i do not think i am the worst offender. mr prime minister, in our country, the commitment to european integration is self-evident. belgium alone is a small match for putin or trump. it is not big enough to face the climate challenge or the power of multinationals. acting with our european neighbours is a matter of course if we are to shape our future, rather than suffer it. for decades, belgium has lived up to this ambition by playing a pioneering role. in the current crisis, it would be expected to redouble its efforts. but, mr prime minister, despite the words you have spoken, your action shows that belgium too often merely observes, drags its feet, when it does not quite sabotage initiatives in favour of greater integration. president, that is not the case. we want belgium to be a forerunner in the european fight against fiscal and social dumping. the commission has also proposed that the belgian authorities should be able to provide the necessary information to the commission. a coalition of the willing with france and germany will follow to make european harmonization of business taxation possible. but unfortunately, the new government was two months ago fingered by the european commission as one of seven member states that aggressively encouraged tax optimization. the same applies to the two neighbouring countries of the benelux and the european union, which are trying to create more fiscal justice. in the meantime, the ministry of finance is organising a funeral for the victims of financial transactions. we dream of a belgium that shows europe that it is possible to combine fiscal responsibility and reducing inequalities. a belgium that is able to maintain first-class public services while transforming our taxation so that they are financed fairly by each and every one according to their abilities. but no, belgium remains a tax haven for the ultra-rich who avoid taxes in their country and for multinationals. even though workers in this country are among the most taxed in europe and the world, your government refuses to recover 942 million euros of illegal tax gifts. at the same time, the quality and accessibility of public services are deteriorating, and social security and justice, which are essential pillars of our life in society, are becoming the adjustment variables of your strategy. president, we dream of a belgium which is the leader of the ecological transition and which is the key to our prosperity and the future of future generations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'sustainable solutions' to cover the whole of the eu. we are working towards energy independence for europe, and we will no longer rely on gas from russia and oil from saudi arabia. these are challenges that can excite european citizens. but alas, belgium has lost all credibility because of the paris climate conference. the european commission has set up a climate policy for the eu, but it has little ambition. eleven neighbouring countries are concerned about the continued presence of nuclear power stations in eleven of their neighbours. last week we learned that your government will continue to use insecticides, which are proven to be deadly to bees! we dream of a belgium that can rise to the challenge of asylum and migration, a belgium that supports the european parliament in putting an end to this senseless dublin system. a belgium in solidarity with the member states on europe's borders, left to face the challenges of migration alone. a belgium that welcomes and integrates those who knock on our doors in need. but no! you'd rather work with the sudanese dictator to send back people who are fleeing hell. this is not surprising, since some of your allies want to challenge the geneva convention, the central pillar of the right to asylum. you prefer to spend more and more to lock up, repatriate and deport human beings because they don't have the right papers, because they weren't born in the right place. you say your policy is firm and humane. rather than firm, i would say violent, rather than humane, i would say unworthy. humanity does not come from your government, mr michel, it comes from our fellow citizens who have taken up their responsibilities to welcome those fleeing war and poverty into their homes. they bring honor to our country where your government brings shame. mr prime minister, the belgium we ecologists dream of and want is possible. but in this country, as everyone knows, the greens are not in power, not even you, mr prime minister, because you have chosen to entrust your fate and that of our country to a national-populist party, of which everyone knows that it, and it alone, sets the course. with the very eurosceptic n-va, you make the choice of each for himself, or worse, of each against all. in the face of the challenges of this century, mr prime minister, we are instead defending boldness and solidarity. the contrast could not be stronger, the alternative could not be clearer.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, i have served in the belgian parliament for 30 years, but i have never been interviewed by a speaker and i hope that will not happen again today. i have little else to add to mr farage. i want to protest to the prime minister first. i can't see him well but i hope he will hear me. there is interpretation in this house, but you have heard here today that many people do not speak their mother tongue. so that's not your excuse, apparently. so i regard the fact that you spoke only french here today as a political choice. i will ask my colleagues from the flemish interest in the flemish parliament and the federal parliament why n-va ministers have allowed belgium to be presented here again as a french-speaking state. secondly, as an enf representative, i am not at all surprised. belgium is always the nice, sweet little boy in the class, the girl in the class who sits in the front and always puts up a nice little finger and never really makes a big story, except to push the whole thing forward. it is no wonder that today mr juncker has congratulated you, mr prime minister. your government is not making an exception to the status of belgium, which, in all its invisibility, is always, as mr verhofstadt has explained here with arms and legs, pro-european, extremely pro-european and perhaps pro-european in essence. belgium and the european union, it's a love affair. the european union thinks it is belgium in the big picture and belgium thinks it is the european union in the small. that is a logical sequence, because it is an artificial state which is as unbalanced as the european union itself and which is also held together by money and by financial agreements, compensations and transfers. so there's a certain logic to this love affair. the debate for the rest of today has illustrated one thing very clearly. and that is the great sickness of this european union and of this cathedral of the european union, to know that at home one says to the voters something different from what one does here. we have seen that illustrated today by mr loones, a representative of the largest coalition party in your coalition, mr michel. he is telling us something different at home than he is doing here, or at least we are not seeing the results of what is being told at home on the radio and in the television studios where the n-va will no doubt be pretending in the coming weeks that it is a disgrace that more money should go to the european union, that it is a disgrace that a new taxation system of the european union is in the making. but if he enters this cathedral, if his prime minister speaks here, we will hear or see nothing of it. the same goes for immigration where the secretary of state for immigration at home and in the television studios pretends to be critical of immigration. there's nothing left of all that. then charles michel comes in and makes belgium into one big, beautiful pink cloud of europe and the european union. that's not true! indeed, mr farage is right. the people are protesting against this and the only way to keep a belgian government going is to lie at home about what they are doing here. if you say otherwise at home and if you enter the cathedral of the federal union here, you do so to the federal music. conclusion the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because when it comes down to it, the n-va, as it did here today, in the person of mr loones, is the first to give you a standing ovation and to sing the european federal music. that is the great difference between reality and the fairy tale of home. that is also the heart of the european union's problems, that all those who sing the federal music here are going back to their home countries with two faces, and that is not what the voters want.
prime minister of belgium. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for the excellent speeches and reactions in this debate. i will try to respond to one or the other. mr weber, you have praised the regional dimension. as i said in my message, i believe that it is pointless to try to oppose the different democracies - local, regional, national and european. in my country, belgium, we also have a tradition of forging the positions defended at european level, of organising regular, permanent consultation on the various issues. the message i am delivering on behalf of belgium is one which also takes account of the different political, regional and local sensitivities on the future of the european union. first point of the game. secondly, as has been said, there have been both praise and criticism. i am used to debating from time to time in the belgian parliament too, it is no different. we are committed to the european level. i am personally committed to the european project, not for a romantic, happy europe, disconnected from reality, but for a europe which is really focused on an ambition for results. results for the fundamental issues. we are convinced that europe can and must become more and more a source of value for our fellow citizens, more jobs and more purchasing power. we are convinced that we must work together more closely on security. guy verhofstadt is right. we have made important progress in recent months in the field of defence. that's going in the right direction. belgium is very involved. we're trying to play a very strong role in that. in the end, migration is a difficult challenge, which requires a genuine answer. i want to say ... mr. lamberts, i expected you to be out of line. you have not yet succeeded in getting elected to the belgian parliament, you have an opportunity here to be out of line and you have not missed this opportunity. i have no lesson to learn from a political party in belgium that caused the photovoltaic bubble in the energy sector by sending billions of euros in bills to the walloon taxpayers. i also want to take full responsibility for the difficult decisions we are making, as are other european countries, on migration. we take responsibility. asylum applications are indeed being lodged in belgium. they are processed in accordance with international, european and national rules. we have no lessons to learn on the subject and we assume the real subject. we do not think we will escape a debate on legal, orderly migration channels. we do believe that this debate should take place and we are prepared to conduct it with a high degree of commitment. finally, a few belgian questions on nuclear safety. i would like to briefly mention the belgian initiative on nuclear safety. we have made a clear choice: get out of nuclear energy in 2025. is that easy? no, that's not easy. is it an ambition? yes, that is an ambition, but we want to do everything we can to achieve results. we have in recent weeks within the council of ministers, with the support of the states, confirmed commitments in this regard. as far as safety is concerned, we are in constant contact with our neighbouring countries, and also with international monitoring in this respect, for example with germany, as well as with other countries. i notice that some people are systematically trying to cause anxiety, panic and worry. we are assuming our responsibilities by entrusting the nuclear control to independent bodies. mr lamberts, the government you don't like - and i understand that - is the government that has developed interconnections with neighbouring countries, investments, and an offshore wind farm, which is growing more and more. belgium is the second country after france to have introduced green bonds: €5 billion mobilised from belgium in support of the energy transition. finally, i would like to touch on a number of other subjects which have been raised, in particular the european budget. the european budget is of course a crucial moment and we must certainly make a clear choice, a choice of arbitration. i don't think anyone underestimates how important it is to make timely decisions. i have clearly said and i repeat: this is a useful proposal from the european commission. that's a starting point. but at the same time we also think from belgium that we must do everything to spend better resources. that makes sense. but we are also realistic. we also know that we must, if need be, consolidate our classical policies, our classical initiatives from the european union. that is also crucial. the new policies open you up, strengthen you and make you possible. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: more support for research, more support for digitalisation, there are crucial challenges. that is why we are as always prepared to deal with you with realism. zeker (pse). - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report. that's the way we're going to start this negotiation. finally, i hear lessons on taxation from mr lamberts. i thank you for the advice you give me on the subject. i think that was very clear. fiscaliteit is in onze ogen in eerste instantie een nationale bevoegdheid. it is a matter of national competence. should we work together? yes, but i regret, my lord lamberts, that... i regret, mr lamberts, that when we reformed the corporation tax to raise it to 25% and even 20% for smes, we did not have the support of your political party in the belgian parliament. therefore, there is indeed a discourse here and actions there which are of a different nature. unlike you, we are convinced that taxation is not an instrument to punish or sanction, but an instrument to support economic development, prosperity and the purchasing power of those who work or want to work. other important points. mrs van brempt, i also hear a rumour that belgium is blocking the taxation of international transactions. there's a rumor, there's a rumor. you are a fool, you are a fool, you are a surrealist! we are not alone not in a position to block this case and i have a few months ago this case was put to the european council. what have i found? the eu has to be able to take action to ensure that the eu is able to meet its obligations. that is reality! i think that in the long term we will have to move towards a taxation of international transactions. probably first in a european framework, but we will have to do it. not in the way you want, which is to punish, to blame and therefore to damage the real economy. i don't want to degrade the real economy, but i know that doesn't concern you much. (mr lamberts's sharp reaction is off the microphone) you are not very concerned about this, mr philippe nigel farage, you are slipping into populism and extremism. i think it's not worthy of a training like yours in europe. finally, i certainly want to thank nigel farage for his good advice on the future of belgium. i look forward to hearing nigel farage's good advice on the future of belgium. he was concerned about the future of britain with brexit and we see where the situation is in britain today. to be precise, brexit is of course a major challenge for the 27 countries, but also for the future of the united kingdom. what's the situation? i am naturally aware that belgium is one of the countries in europe which can be particularly affected by brexit. that is why we want a credible negotiation. we are therefore very much committed to a clear relationship with the united kingdom, both economically and for the future of our security. there is work being done by michel barnier - it is not a simple job - with the support of the commission and the council, who are following this negotiation very closely. the demonstration is made: wanting to leave the european union club has a number of consequences, a number of difficulties and we will be very much involved in the coming months to be a committed and active partner in order to find the path of common sense in this useful negotiation. it seems to me that parliament will also be very much involved in this extremely important subject. mr juncker, a quick word on belgian citizenship. i am glad that there is such an attraction for belgian citizenship, that british citizens are also seeking to join our country, where they have often lived for a long time. what's the situation, very simply? there is currently conflicting case law in belgium on this subject, i.e. the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary. the government is looking at the legal possibilities of a subject which i feel is important to a number of people who have been in our country for a long time. these are some of the elements i wanted to mention. you got it. i thank you for this lively, intense debate. be convinced, however, with all the nuance but also with all the force of commitment, that belgium has the ambition to remain in the cockpit of a project in which we believe with great fervour because, as guy verhofstadt has rightly said, history has shown that the path of cooperation, peace, dialogue and the pooling of forces is the path to guarantee freedom, democracy and the rule of law, which, i repeat, we hold as the apple of our eye.
president, mr prime minister, i think you have set the right priorities. you spoke of a strong european economy that invests. you have referred to fair taxation, including on internet giants, the fight against social dumping and therefore security. you say that we as the european union must achieve results in order to regain the people's trust. i think that's the right summary. that security, mr prime minister. you also referred to european defence. mr juncker said yesterday that 20 billion euros were earmarked in this multiannual budget for the development of european defence. now, that fits very well with the french-german project that was recently launched to strengthen that european defence and also to build together a european fighter plane. i would like you to confirm that belgium is joining the european project. in summary, we have only one minute, mr. prime minister: stay on that course. do not be distracted by the so-called euro-realists, by the euro-sceptic forces in your government. stay on that course! i think that together we can convince people that it is right to use european resources to strengthen our borders, to win back the people's trust, to invest in social justice, taxation and above all in greater security, projects with european added value. i think we can convince people that this is good for everyone and that this is an added value for all the people in the european union.
mr president, mr prime minister, you have come to us to talk about europe, and you have done so, and you have done so well. on the other hand, some of our colleagues, mr annemans and even mr lamberts, have used their speaking time as the backyard of the belgian parliament. this is a real diversion! mr lamberts in particular has spent his time in front of this house smearing the politics you are pursuing in belgium. i say to mr. lamberts, that's not good. that was a bad thing you did. mr prime minister, i have noted your caution with regard to the future financing of the european union. you acknowledge that there are sectors in which it is necessary to maintain a level of expenditure in the traditional cohesion policies, the cap. you have endorsed the additional funding targets of the new policies and you say 'we must be very frugal in terms of budgetary contributions'. so, mr. prime minister, i'm going to make a suggestion. the european parliament adopted a report proposing that an agreement be reached between the council, the european parliament and the commission on new own resources which will eventually reduce national contributions. can you tell us if you'll help us do that?
mr prime minister, you are a convinced european, no one doubts that, but that is not reflected in some of the statements you make or in the positions of your government on european issues. according to your statement, you do not want to consider any increase in the national contribution. as guy verhofstadt said, we are at a crossroads, there are projects that europe should take care of. an ambitious europe requires additional resources. mr macron raised the issue two weeks ago. but there is also your finance minister - it has been said - who is blocking behind the scenes the implementation of the financial transaction tax, a project that we are the majority to want. and what about the european legislation against tax evasion which in belgium has been amputated, emptied of its meaning, and i quote the european commission in this regard which calls belgium 'one of the states in europe which most harms equity, prevents fair competition and increases the burden of taxpayers'. i am not saying this, the european commission is. mr prime minister, as the ship europe is taking on water from all sides, and the council is a bit of a machine that is making a dent at european level, what major projects can you support to revive the european dynamism in favour of the citizens?
mr president, mr prime minister, i have no doubt about your economic liberalism. and in terms of trade, i think you should take it all in because to say that today, through trade agreements, you are protecting your farmers, is still something quite paradoxical. as we know today, the current agreements do not spare farmers or the climate. explain to me how the import of thousands of tonnes of beef and pork from canada or mexico will not affect the production of european farmers? i think the only way to advance this cause of social and environmental protection is to have "sustainable development" chapters with sanctions in trade agreements. so what is belgium's position so that you can finally reconcile your economic liberalism with your stated desire to protect both social and environmental standards, and at the same time your farmers.
president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your vision of the future of the european union. now, what is striking, not only with you, but also with your colleague president macron, is that there is little talk about people with disabilities. in the eu, they represent a very large group of 80 million people. a forgotten group too. do they also count in the europe of the future? do we also see them as full citizens of europe who can also contribute to the europe of the future? i'd like to hear that from you. we must also not forget that all european countries have ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european union has also ratified it. we are still waiting for a general non-discrimination directive. we have been waiting for years for a european law on accessibility to be strengthened. where is the respect for sign languages in the european union? that is our language, the language of deaf people in europe. deaf people feel ignored. they feel that europe does not pay attention to them. i would also like to hear your reaction to these various elements. we can show the deaf and disabled people in general that europe can also mean something to them. when we look at the united states we have a big catch-up to make. we should be more ambitious so that people with disabilities can really count and be included in the europe of the future.
president, commissioner, prime minister, thank you for your very strong and pro-european speech. they are the kind of leaders we should see more of here in europe. today i am a proud fleming, a proud belgian, a committed european and, above all, a convinced liberal. because i think you've made the right point. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done. there is one point, mr prime minister, to which i would like to draw your special attention today. we think that we need to do more here in europe to address migration. the european citizens are asking for the same. i published a book last week about 10,000 unaccompanied minors who are missing in europe, including in our country. that is why i would like to ask for your support. we shall be voting on a resolution here in parliament. defend the decisions taken by the european council to take a stronger stance against smugglers and to protect children in migration. thank you, prime minister.
mr president, mr prime minister, i am proud to be a european. i'm proud of you. but i'm also proud, german-speaking ostbelgier zu sein. all that goes simultaneously, even if yesterday today is not as it seemed. this is also based on the great idea of europe and its values. belgium has been building europe for 70 years. perhaps europe can also learn from belgium. from this small, very complicated, but always lovable state. if nothing else, a belgian came up with an idea, and it worked. we must build the house of europe anew, and people must feel at home in europe. that means we have to build this house further. against wind and weather we must make it permanent. the european parliament has a duty to act in the interests of the union and to ensure that the union's citizens are not excluded from the european union. you must be the architect of this new europe. i would like to quote yesterday a man who comes not from politics but from football, the liverpool fc coach. the eu is not perfect, but it is the best idea we have had. history has shown that we can solve problems when we stick together. if we are going to separate, we are going to fight, and not just once in history has spaltung led to success. the situation in belgium is similar to that in europe. so be brave, mr prime minister, be the architect of this new europe, in which we all feel at home!
mrs president, rabbits, hamsters, mice, millions of animals are killed every year in laboratories all over the world, whereas today there is no longer any justification for cosmetics. alternative methods of testing exist, faster, more efficient and cheaper, most of the time. citizens are calling us, ngos are all mobilized, consumers are choosing brands that refuse animal testing, everything tells us that europeans are sensitive to this animal suffering and want, of course, to reduce it. the european union banned animal testing just five years ago today. we were the first to do so. several countries have since followed in our footsteps: israel, india, new zealand, and soon australia, canada and brazil. that's good, but it's not enough. we now call for the fight to be taken to the united nations with a convention that puts an end to such tests all over the world. five years now, we're running out of time to expand the virtuous circle. (a few words in english)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first i really would like to thank you for the positive reaction and what i feel was overall support. you are right, there are three of us here to demonstrate how important the mobility issues and all the packages we presented to you are for the commission, and you are also right that it was a collective effort and the result of very good energy union team spirit. i would like to assure you that we are ready to use this positive spirit to work with you, day and night, and if you are talking about trilogies, you’re speaking mostly about the night sessions. but we are ready to work with you to make sure that we use every single day. we still have almost a one year ahead of us to make sure that all the proposals we put to you for the area of modernising mobility will be approved. so we can really start the next decade to be the new framework and with all the efforts which are necessary to make sure the citizens are safer, our roads are better and our industry is much more competitive. if you allow, mr president, i know that we are running out of time, so i just wanted to save some time for my colleagues, for miguel and violeta, also to contribute to the debate with their responses.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all of you for your contributions in the debate on your support for the commission proposals. following the intervention of ms dalli regarding the achievement of our target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% compared with 1990 by 2030, let me start with some clarifications and explain how the transport sector will contribute. for sure, the commission is putting forward a different set of proposals in order to achieve those targets, but in the new effort sharing regulation, we set out binding national greenhouse gas emission targets for the period 2021-2030 for member states. these targets cover all the sectors of the economy that fall outside the scope of the european union emissions trading system, including road transport. no sectoral targets are set under the effort sharing regulation. nevertheless, the analytical work underpinning the effort sharing regulation proposals shows the cost—effectiveness of a european union-wide emission reduction of 25% compared with 2005 for road transport by 2030. under the baseline, emission reductions are around 70%, so there is an eight percentage point difference. with our 2017 proposals for post-2020 emissions standards for cars and vans, this difference gets significantly smaller – it shrinks to four percentage points, and the gap could be progressively closed by one percentage point with the implementation of the proposed co2 standards for lorries, which have to reduce their emissions by 30% compared with 2019 by 2030. the remaining gap will be addressed through other additional policies with impact on road transport greenhouse gas emissions. these concern, for example, the minimum share of renewable fuels in transport, which is proposed by the commission in the revision of the renewable energy directive as well as the proposals for the eurovignette, clean vehicles and combined transport directives. with all this legislation, we will make sure that transport also contributes to achieving our 40% minimum reduced emissions target by 2030. to conclude, let me stress that the commission has tabled ambitious and realistic proposals which we think strike the right balance between environmental, consumer and employment objectives. that is why the commission would like to call on our colleagues later and all the stakeholders to work closely together to ensure the swift adoption and implementation of the proposal for co2 emissions standards for lorries – so that the benefits for european union industry, businesses and citizens can be maximised and generated as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for all your comments and the real support for the mobility package. i take on board your criticism that we might have introduced this package a little bit late into our mandate but, believe me, it was done in a very systematic and comprehensive way, so i do believe that together we can really deliver on it, with the confidence that we will also deliver on the results, and we are all really looking forward to those results. i am very much in favour of removing silent killers from european society, and transport is contributing a few of them, so please give your full support to three very clear vision zeros. zero fatalities on european roads, zero pollution from european transport and zero red tape in mobility solutions by 2050. i know it’s ambitious, but it is achievable if we join our forces and we are really serious about delivering on this objective. for that reason, i’m very much looking forward to engaging immediately with you and seeing how far we can get under our mandate, and i'm sure that the commission and the commissioner that will come after me will be equally devoted to these goals and we will deliver on those so badly needed objectives by 2050.
with the third mobility package proposed by the european commission on 17 may, we are taking an important step towards drastically reducing the number of road traffic fatalities. in 2017, 25 300 people were killed in traffic accidents in the european union. that's 25,300 too many. the measures announced will equip cars, trucks and buses in the coming years, starting from the end of 2021, with, inter alia, an emergency braking system to protect vulnerable road users, a black box in each car, an intelligent speed assistant and a reversing camera. the mapping of dangerous traffic points and additional investments in infrastructure should also drastically reduce the number of victims. we must do everything we can to reduce the number of road deaths to zero as quickly as possible.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i want to say that we believe that the commission's proposal is a serious basis for negotiation. but i cannot hide from you and from our assembly that the debates in my group have been very lively and even difficult, both as regards the overall rate of increase in appropriations and as regards the proposed cuts in cohesion policy and the cap. some strongly support the cuts you advocate, others strongly oppose them. there will obviously be a complex and difficult debate. i am convinced that the final result will depend not only on the amount spent on these policies but, fundamentally, on the quality of the new arrangements that will be put in place. that said, all the members of my group are firmly committed to finding the right path for the future of the union. it is not the europe of yesterday that must be maintained, but the europe of tomorrow that must be built. it is in this spirit that we strongly support the doubling or even tripling of appropriations for erasmus extended to apprentices, the doubling of the sme support programmes, the increase of more than 50% in appropriations for research and innovation, the increase to an unprecedented level of appropriations for the management of our external borders, the creation of new financial means to support investment and, finally, you will not be surprised by the co-rapporteur's own resources. we support the commission's proposal to introduce an own resources package, the only way, with the effective implementation of the principle of european added value, to reduce the contributions of national budgets to the financing of the union and thus increase the legitimacy and autonomy of the european union.
how much will the european union spend in the coming years and where will this money go? the european commission's proposal has been put forward and the question is: does the proposal deserve a blow or are you being blow? because let us be honest, when it comes to the pennies, the european union still does not have a good reputation. and that is because europe does not dare to make choices. the differences between east and west, between north and south, these differences are not being settled, they are being bought off. it seems that cleaning the ship is not possible either. yes, there are new and important priorities in the european union: stop migration, for example, and security. let us finance these new priorities effectively - even heavily - but in a sensible way, by first eliminating obsolete priorities, by really shifting resources within the european budget. but no, the european union does not really dare to make that choice either. there is one choice that europe is willing to make, and that is: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. fellas, that's not how it works. if europe fails to prove its worth, people will only become more critical. i would therefore like to conclude with an appeal to the european commission, to mr oettinger. tomorrow, wednesday, you will be giving a statement on the use of european accession aid in turkey. make that statement a real one. turn that european accession crane to erdogan. only then will you really earn a feather and strengthen the support for the european union. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. in all honesty, i'm a little sad that we have to ask that question. if it is not clear what the european citizens want now, when will it be clear? of course we must close our borders, we must invest more in our security, we must create a growth-friendly climate and we should spend much less time on energy and environmental issues and all other issues. i hear debates about all sorts of things that europe should not be doing. we must concentrate on those areas where european cooperation can make a real difference.
mr president, i cannot stress enough the importance of this review. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs. it is no secret that the posting of workers directive has led to a great deal of frustration for both employers and employees. in fact, for many, this legislation is the symbol of a union that worked in the wrong way. so revision was more than necessary. the most important thing is that the question of the temporary nature of the secondment is finally addressed. 12 months with a possible extension to 18 months: not briefly, but at least clearly. but that's not all. the foreign worker is now entitled to the benefits to which a national is entitled, in addition to his salary. and that's not just the case for the construction industry, it's the case for all industries. with this decision we will ensure that domestic labour is not quickly priced out of the market and that foreign labour is no longer exploited. the revision of the secondment directive has literally cost blood, sweat and tears. as a fellow countryman and member of the communist party, this may seem a bit easy to me, but i think that no one can deny that commissioner thyssen has put a piece of junk down. it is a courageous step towards reducing fraud, creating fairer work and a fairer europe.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. tough men, strong characters too, but above all entrepreneurs who want to earn their bread honestly. i was in newport early last week, visiting the fish mine. the fishing boats that come in early in the morning with a day's catch of fresh fish and, of course, our delicious grey shrimp. i spoke to rudy beuckels there. he's one of our strongest fishermen, and you can feel his love for the craft, his passion for the sea. at the same time, you're also feeling anxiety. the fishermen are working hard. for example, if you look at rudy on his boat, you see that there's investment in more efficient engines, in retrofitted nets, in the sumwing, in a tree trunk with roller shutters. to what end? to move towards more sustainable fisheries. our fishermen expect something in return, and rightly so. they deserve a clear vision of the future. the north sea plan is therefore important, but more is needed. brexit, the pulse, the landing obligation: all files that threaten our fisheries. let us do the same and enjoy our little fishing.
president. - the opening of the american embassy in jerusalem was yet another unilateral decision by president trump. as we predicted, this was just adding fuel to the fire. while on the one hand the champagne flowed profusely at the opening, on the other hand hundreds of people died, including many children. it is good, commissioner, that we are having this debate again today. last month we had an excellent debate with a good resolution. but i think that by having this debate today we are sending a clear and powerful signal that we will no longer tolerate this. how much blood must be shed? how many more children have to die? i think it's clear what needs to be done. first of all - and i therefore agree with what my colleague has said - there must be an independent inquiry. it must be made clear once and for all who is to blame. secondly, we must not underestimate the role of hamas. we must also have the courage to condemn their actions forcefully. you said it yourself: the humanitarian situation in gaza, we are almost afraid to summarize the facts. month after month, we repeat it here. let's make sure that humanitarian aid gets there. providing medical and humanitarian assistance. finally, commissioner, you have pointed out that: we can no longer count on america to play a major role there. i think it is clear that europe must play its role more clearly. you said: we must open the way to peace. yeah, we should. but i think we need to step up our diplomatic efforts. i think we should say: this two-state solution, come to the table, [...] come to the table. i think, commissioner, that europe must be the trigger and that is why i am counting on you.
madam president, sirens sounded this morning in israel around sderot, just an hour from tel aviv. thirty shells were fired from gaza, one of them on a kindergarten. there were no children, fortunately, it was too early. it's actually the worst attack since 2014. these images, we won't see them on the front page, this truth, we won't tell it. hamas is therefore pursuing its strategy of ultra-violence. he is the one who is primarily responsible for the tragedy of the people of gaza. for 12 years, these people have lived in economic, health and cultural deprivation. the population is caught between the israeli-egyptian blockade and hamas, which continues, claiming 50 of the 62 people killed on may 14 as its fighters, which continues the bombings and announces a new stage of the so-called march of return on tuesday, june 5. even though at the moment the negotiations are supposed to take place behind the scenes, sponsored by qatar and egypt, for a cold peace, a truce where certain preliminary, hitherto intangible, conditions should be frozen, i hope, as the commissioner has said, that this hope will not turn into a new escalation.
we can travel freely within the schengen area without passport controls. but this mutual trust between the countries cannot be achieved without strong common protection of the eu's external borders. unfortunately, these external borders are still porous, as european courts prohibit pushbacks. boats are still being transported to europe for rescue instead of to the last safe country of transit. i therefore think it is perfectly justifiable for member states to be able to temporarily reintroduce internal border controls. this report, however, condemns this approach. the commission is also critical of the systematic checks on eu citizens coming from outside the eu, including returning syrian fighters, at zaventem airport, for example. we think that criticism is very inappropriate from a security point of view. the reintroduction of border controls within the eu does indeed entail economic costs. but it is precisely because the eu is doing too little to strengthen these external borders that member states want to know who is going in and out. border controls, like targeted police action, are sometimes necessary.
i would like to express my condolences to the victims of the attack in liège today and to their families. this resolution contains many interesting ideas which are useful for my report in the special committee on terrorism. victims of terrorism or their family members who are marked for life must go through a complicated painful and slow process to claim their rights. but all too often, they end up in a red tape of insurance paperwork, having to tell their traumatic story over and over again, while facing all sorts of high-mounting costs. so, twice the victim. i cannot, however, agree with the pro-deo provisions. the resolution seems to want to expand the system and emphasizes financial aid and legal aid to illegal immigrants. for your information: the total cost of the pro-deostream system in belgium was eur 73 million in 2016. up to a third of all pro-dep procedures concerned aliens affairs, or 21 million to assist people who are in the country illegally. at the national level, my government addressed the abuse of asylum seekers. successive asylum applications were made more difficult, and a new points system was introduced for pro-dead lawyers. the new pro-compensation system will make compensation more relevant to actual performance and will prevent reckless litigation. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against fraud and other irregularities is a very good one. i cannot help feeling that this report is advocating the opposite.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. in the european union we are sometimes too confident about that. we sometimes feel invulnerable, as if everything is invented in europe. that's not right, of course. - it's not. and we can see that the pace can go even higher. that's certainly the case. in a number of authoritarian regimes with a drive for expansion, you can see that the pace of production can still be artificially increased. so it's really naive to think that everyone respects the rules of the game. that is why we must arm ourselves against these global challenges. and how, is the question. i see two ways. first, by discouraging foreign direct investment in sensitive sectors. we voted on that yesterday in the committee on international trade. two, by what we're discussing here tonight: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. this is absolutely necessary to protect our european industry from unfair trade practices and from serious job and wealth losses. let us not fall into flat protectionism, but accept the challenge.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to say to mr henkel that when he says democracy is important, naturally democracy is important, and democracy is important just because of europe. when there was no european union, there was authoritarianism, despotism in europe, fascism in europe, nazism in europe between the two world wars. and it is since we have the european union that we have guaranteed democracy in the european union. that is what we have achieved. that we have achieved. (applause)et je suis très content que le premier ministre ait parlé de la liberté de la presse et des valeurs parce que, pour le moment, il y a un problème en europe, disons-le: les valeurs sont menacées. on s’indigne de l’assassinat de journalistes à malte ou en slovaquie, mais alors il faut être conséquent, manfred, il faut oser réagir contre des états comme la hongrie de m. orbán, comme la pologne de kaczynski et comme malte et son système politique corrompu. il faut oser dire que c’est assez, que ce n’est pas ça, être européen! c’est là que se trouve la source de nos problèmes. il faut avoir le courage de le dire, d’arrêter les orbán de ce monde, les kaczynski de ce monde et ceux qui pensent qu’un système corrompu, comme à malte, est un bon système pour alimenter les revenus d’un pays. merci donc pour cette vision, monsieur bettel, qu’on entend de temps à autre, mais pas suffisamment, dans cette enceinte. surtout, merci pour le rôle que joue le luxembourg, parce que chaque fois qu’il faut trouver un compromis à trouver, le luxembourg est là, avec mon pays et d’autres, pour essayer de trouver les solutions pour aller de l’avant, tandis que, parfois, ce sont les grands pays qui posent des problèmes, disons-le aussi. m. henkel a parlé de l’italie. ce n’est pas que la crise italienne soit exceptionnelle. en tout cas, ce n’est pas la première fois qu’il y a une crise en italie, monsieur henkel, elle existait déjà avant l’euro, la crise politique en italie. il existe aussi des crises politiques dans d’autres pays. voyez la belgique, les pays-bas, l’allemagne. la formation d’un gouvernement dans ces pays a tout de même pris du temps dans le passé plus ou moins récent. le vrai problème que je veux souligner ici est que chaque fois qu’une crise politique touche un état membre important de notre zone euro, elle se transforme tout de suite en une crise de toute la zone euro. les écarts de taux d’intérêt se creusent, les déficits grimpent, les banques sont en difficulté et, finalement, l’économie et la confiance s’effondrent. pourquoi? pourquoi, quand il y a un problème dans un des états membres de la zone euro, en particulier s’il s’agit d’un grand état membre, pourquoi y a-t-il des problèmes au niveau de la zone euro en général? mais pour la simple raison que notre monnaie unique, notre union monétaire est inachevée! c’est cela la réalité, monsieur henkel: l’union monétaire est inachevée. en effet, l’euro est la seule monnaie au monde derrière laquelle il existe seulement une autorité monétaire, la banque centrale européenne, mais pas d’autorité politique et pas d’autorité budgétaire. c’est là le vrai problème! c’est sous cet angle, monsieur henkel, qu’il faut analyser la crise italienne. la réalité est que nous gérons l’union monétaire avec un contrat intergouvernemental entre les 19 états membres de la zone euro, et quand il y a des problèmes politiques dans un de ces états membres, tous les autres états membres de la zone euro sont automatiquement touchés. il faut donc casser cette logique, et pour casser cette logique, il ne faut pas retourner en arrière, monsieur henkel, il faut aller de l’avant! et aller de l’avant, cela veut dire qu’il faut exécuter et mettre en pratique ce que recommandent tous les rapports de l’ocde, du fmi, de la banque centrale européenne, de la commission européenne et du parlement européen, à savoir qu’il faut un gouvernement pour la zone euro, une capacité budgétaire pour la zone euro, un ministre des finances pour la zone euro et qu’il faut une union bancaire complète et un parlement. and that is my second message, mr henkel: why we don’t have it; it is absolutely needed now, and i ask prime minister bettel and the president of the commission to make that the first priority. that does not mean that the member states do not have to do their homework. what you are saying is true. between 1970 and 1996, in fact the competitiveness of italy was as good as that of germany, and their export figures were as good as those of germany. but it is not because they entered into the euro, because they did not make the reforms that were necessary, because in the past they could do devaluations of their own currency – and that is no longer possible. are you defending devaluation as the way to avoid reforms in a country? who is paying? mr henkel has no problem with it – his income is sufficiently high, he has no problem – but ordinary people with pensions, with savings: their income is reduced and they are paying the price for devaluations. so that is not the solution. the solution is reform, and what italy has to do is what france has started to do – reforms, reforms, reforms – and then italy will be saved. that also means solidarity in the european union, from north to south. germany has to accept the proposals of emmanuel macron and of the commission on the reform of the eurozone. mr scholz, your minister of finance, has to follow mr schulz and not mr schäuble, if i can say it in one sentence, and there also has to be solidarity from the south with the north. if tomorrow there is a trade war with trump, we have to be behind german industry, even german cars. when i was young i preferred alfa romeo, i have to tell you, to bmw, but nevertheless i think we have to stand in solidarity. that is my message, and that is also the message, dear xavier, that we want to hear from the council. start – this is the most important thing – the reform of the governance of the eurozone, certainly now that the problems have also started in italy. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr prime minister, welcome to our house. the grand duchy of luxembourg has always shown a strong commitment to the european union, and the speech you have just given here confirms that commitment. in particular, we share your view that peace is not trivial and that it is never definitively achieved. we really share the idea that the definition of our sovereignty is increasingly being constructed through and thanks to the european union. we also share your vision of a free, strong and open european union and your desire to speed up rather than slow down its construction. a few days after the entry into force of the famous general regulation on data protection, i would like to remind everyone that it was under the luxembourg presidency that agreement was reached on this pioneering text, which was also put on the rails by the former commissioner viviane reding, also from luxembourg. and you will allow me to claim the pride that it was a green minister from your government, félix braz, who concluded the negotiation with the green rapporteur of this parliament, our colleague jan philipp albrecht. we are also pleased to note that, like your irish colleague who in january inaugurated this round of debates, your government has advanced the values of equality and, in particular, women's rights. this is all the more remarkable as within the european union some member states want to go backwards in this area. i am also pleased that your government has given the ecological transition a greater place in public policy. i would like to emphasize the positive role played by carole dieschbourg at the paris climate conference. it is quite logical that on the climate front your government supports the european parliament's position, which is much more ambitious than that of the council and the commission. in this area, you are committing luxembourg to renewable energy, but also to a spatial planning policy that respects our common assets: soil, air and water. similarly, while the grand duchy was the unholy protagonist of the luxleaks saga, i am pleased that it is now supporting the draft european directive on the protection of whistleblowers, who are so essential to our democracy. and you see where i am going with this, because while we as european environmentalists are generally proud of the european and national achievements of the government in which our luxembourg friends work, there is still a big black spot between us: taxation. since the 2013 offshore leaks revelations, a litany of scandals have revealed how the world's largest corporations and the world's richest people evade and cheat on their taxes. the grand duchy is certainly not the only actor in this senseless tax competition between the member states and between europe and the rest of the world. but it is hard to deny that your country shares responsibility, especially alongside its benelux neighbours. the european commission was right to criticise luxembourg for its aggressive tax practices. our wealthy belgian families know something about this, who have invested no less than 48 billion euros in your country by setting up letterbox companies. and many of our red devils, our footballers, did not hesitate to transfer a large part of their advertising revenue to luxembourg in order to benefit from your far too lax intellectual property protection regime. the european action of the grand duchy in the tax field is also largely disappointing. when your finance minister does not play the clock to delay the introduction of a tax on the digital giants, he is blocking without hesitation initiatives that are in the interests of the european taxpayer - those taxpayers, as manfred said, who do not have the leisure to play one state against another - in particular the introduction of public country-by-country reporting for multinationals or the implementation of a common and consolidated corporate tax base. in short, your opposition in principle to any form of tax harmonization, on the grounds that it would mean a reduction in taxes, at a time when multinationals pay almost nothing. there is talk of an increase in taxes, indeed, and it is necessary and justified. i would say that from the country with the highest per capita income in the european union, i think europeans could expect a hand to be extended rather than a fist to be clenched. mr prime minister, i would like to conclude by dedicating my speech to camille gira, your secretary of state for sustainable development, who died on 16 may. he was a pioneer of political ecology in your country, notably by turning his village of beckerich into a showcase for ecology, with 100% renewable energy, but above all with unprecedented citizen participation. its model of citizen-led ecological transition has inspired many green proxies across europe. ecology will miss him and we will miss him. he was one of ours.
mr president, i want to raise a point of order, not about the debate, and i would like to thank the prime minister. i want to ask you to prepare a statement for the plenary at 12.00, as president of the parliament, on the arrest of bill browder in spain on a russian arrest warrant. i think that europe has to react to this immediately. an american citizen, who is in fact fighting for justice in russia, cannot be arrested in europe based on a russian arrest warrant. we as europeans were always at bill browder’s side from day one in this case, the magnitsky case. mr president, i would like to ask if you could prepare something for 12.00. it is better to ask this now than at 12.00. (applause)
mr president, mr prime minister, good afternoon. i am so free to address you in dutch as a beneluxer, and i can say that you have said little or nothing that i disagree with to prove that the benelux alliance is closer than ever. you referred to the social dimension, which must be strengthened as one of the instruments to make it clear that we, the european union, also protect people. that's the heart of your argument, respect for it. you have stressed the importance of strengthening european defence, small member states - luxembourg, belgium, the netherlands, others - so i think we should also support this. then the digital single market. i will touch it because mrs vestager is still in the chamber. we recently had a meeting with the ceo of facebook. it left a bitter aftertaste and made it clear that there really - our chairman weber said it at the time in that interview with mr zuckerberg - there must be an end to that monopoly of facebook. i refer to mrs verstager: she has the power, she has the competence, she also has the guts to do it. i wonder if you would be behind it if it were to tackle monopoly.
mr president, with the golden visas we are really facing a mechanism that does not smell good, i would even say smells bad. it is a shame that european citizenship can be bought, even with dirty money. moreover, in many cases the purpose of the residence permit is not to actually reside in the country that issued it, but to move with impunity within the european union and to do business there. it is a private pension obtained by the sale of a european common good. thirdly, and perhaps most dangerously, there is more control in the european system for obtaining a short-stay visa than for obtaining a long-stay visa, which will allow you to do business indefinitely in the territory of the union. in the face of this, the council and the commission are heard saying: 'we are going to remind the member states of the principle of sincere cooperation'. do you think the member states are listening to you? you can see they're not listening to you. so there is only one thing to do: we must make long-stay visas a collective responsibility, as is the case with short-stay visas.
president, eleven member states in the european union have programmes that grant residence permits to foreign investors. let me be clear that i do not necessarily think that is a bad thing. on the contrary, such programmes can be a way of attracting valuable investment and encouraging entrepreneurship. but granting citizenship is not about double standards, and that's why we're here this afternoon. if the issuing of these visas is not accompanied by adequate integrity checks, we risk giving free rein to criminals and money laundering rings. then it's purely selling to the highest bidder. i am fully aware that the granting of citizenship is an exclusive matter for a member state, but europe has the right to speak out on this. what one member state decides has consequences for all of us. citizenship automatically gives access to the internal market and allows us to enjoy our freedoms. of course, this is not by chance the ultimate selling point for such constructions. and there goes the shoe. it is absolutely absurd that we have no idea who is granted european citizenship and how. so let me be clear. there is nothing wrong with a golden visa programme in principle, but member states must take their responsibility in this. criminals with money in their pockets are given a free pass to launder their funds through these programmes, and that is simply not possible. we must thoroughly investigate these programmes within the committee on financial crimes, tax evasion and tax avoidance. we need to know who is getting these visas, what the criteria are and how the preliminary examination is going. we owe it to the citizens of europe.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the european second-hand car market continues to be plagued by odometer fraud, with an annual economic cost of as much as €8.77 billion. you cannot solve this alone, because the manipulation of odometers is not just a problem of european transport: it also concerns the internal market and consumer rights. yet your colleagues will be absent today as well. yet the solution is obvious. together with your colleagues, you could propose a realistic framework, with mileage being recorded and information shared with member states and consumers. the references to belgium and the netherlands are correct. in our country, the introduction of the simple car pass has reduced fraud by 97%. you hear it, there is unanimity in parliament on the urgency and the solution. now we have unanimity in the commission, where the various commissioners continue to push the envelope. i listened to you carefully and you opened the umbrella a little by referring to the existing instruments, such as the directive on driving tests. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. more frequent registrations are needed and the consumer must also have access to the data. this is not so much a technical dossier as it is primarily about consumers and citizens. the good news is: we can solve the problem without interference, regulatory overreach or complicated procedures.
the rapporteur. madam president, europe has entered a new dynamic, that of the circular economy, that of the preservation of our raw materials, which have already become so scarce. eco-design, which we will be discussing this evening, is a key pillar of this. this means taking into account all environmental impacts on biodiversity, water, soil, air, noise and, of course, energy consumption during product design. i would say that this is logical, since this phase of product manufacture is responsible for 80% of environmental pollution and 90% of the costs for producers. in 2005 i was already rapporteur on the first framework directive on the subject , the objective at the time was limited and aimed solely at reducing greenhouse gas emissions by improving energy efficiency. today, we can no longer focus solely on this energy efficiency issue. europe must change its paradigm and act on better use of resources and on the recyclability of products, an ambition that was very widely shared by the members of the environment committee, who adopted, by near unanimity, on 25 april, my report on the implementation of the 2009 directive. i would also like to thank all the members of the committee, and especially the non-existent rapporteurs, with whom i had a very good working relationship: francesc gambús for the epp, massimo paolucci for the s&d, nikolay brekov for ecr, kateřina konečná for the gue/ngl, margrete auken for the greens, eleonora evi for the efdd and sylvie goddyn for enf. i would remind you that this is a report on the situation and on implementation. eco-design requirements for a range of energy-intensive products have borne fruit: i am thinking of air heaters, boilers, computers, lamps, televisions and household appliances in general. the numbers speak for themselves. the eco-design policy, coupled also, it must be said, with the energy labelling legislation, is generating savings that are greater than italy's annual energy consumption, nothing less, or 175 million tonnes of oil equivalent. if we take the analysis to a level closer to us, that is to say to consumers, this represents a saving of 490 euros per household per year on energy bills. several studies by the uk authorities confirm this success, including one published in 2015, which concluded that every pound invested in eco-design was worth 3.8 times more to the uk economy and therefore a cost-effective policy. however, this blue sky that i'm drawing here, is still dotted with a few clouds. there is some disagreement, particularly unanimous criticism of the persistent delays in the decision-making process. the commission must therefore, commissioner, remedy this situation, and we have made this clear in paragraphs 7 to 14 of our report. european manufacturers must be able to rely on clear deadlines for implementing measures. this is important for their strategy and to maintain fair competition with non-european companies. but on the whole, the reasons for satisfaction are there and lead us, of course, to look further and to want, firstly, to extend eco-design measures to energy-related products, which have the greatest potential for saving, such as solar panels, refrigerated containers and hand dryers. secondly, we intend to rely on other criteria, different, additional criteria, to set our requirements. this could be the durability of our dishwashers, our refrigerators, the repairability - we have put a lot of emphasis on this - and the availability of spare parts, for example for tvs and so-called all-in-one printers. we believe that it is essential that the commission should find a solution in its work plan for the selection of criteria. this has been an essential part of our discussions on mobile phones. i know this is not easy given the life span of mobile phones, on average from 6 months to 2 years of use depending on whether they simply die or whether they go out of style. their environmental record also needs to be improved. i am convinced - i am speaking here as a user - that smartphones should be made with removable components, particularly the battery, and should be accompanied by clear information on their possibilities for reuse and recycling. market surveillance also needs to be improved. the commission estimates that between 10 and 25% of the products covered by the directive do not comply with the ecodesign requirements. the responsibility for this lies with the member states. at european union level, ... (the president withdrew the floor from the speaker)
i'm the reporter. i was at 5:30 pm, ma'am, if you give me ten seconds here to finish my sentence, i'll have twenty seconds to conclude, that sounds good to me. i was saying that the idea of creating a passport for digital products sounds great to me. it was suggested in the council conclusions on eco-innovation of december 2017.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i will be very brief. i would like to thank the commissioner for taking into consideration the two projects which have been mentioned here, namely the theatre lighting. the member states will vote in october. i think that politically the commission could go along with the remarks that have been made. it should also tackle the huge mobile phone project. one billion mobile phones are lying dormant in the drawers of europe, that's the scale of this project. for the rest, i think our discussions have shown how taking account of environmental impacts throughout the life cycle of products is meeting our needs today, without compromising the ability of our children to meet their needs tomorrow. it shows how essential our work is, and how much we involve the citizens of europe.
in writing. ecodesign and energy labelling are often portrayed by eurosceptics as absurd, pointless european interference. europe should not care which vacuum we buy! but with these two regulations we can meet half our energy saving target by 2020, reduce co2 emissions by 320 million tonnes a year and the bills of every european family by 500 euros, generate 55 billion euros for our industry and create 800 000 new jobs. it is therefore clear that europe must do something about this. and i want it to be a priority. ecological design must include more products and more criteria. the focus is now on energy consumption alone. we want to extend this to include sustainability aspects such as recyclability, use of recycled materials, recoverability, easy dismantling, availability of spare parts and regulation of rare or harmful raw materials. the minimum product life and guarantee periods should also be included. but the first step is to apply the rules correctly, and there the shoe is twisting again. non-compliance is currently estimated at between 10 and 25% of products on the market. this would result in a loss of 10% of the potential savings. this corresponds to the total energy production of the belgian nuclear power station. we can't let this go on any longer.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, it is a fellow emergency worker who has seen these recent photos who says this: ahmad reza jalali is barely recognizable, he looks dying. in january last year i asked the high representative in this house about the fate of the swedish-iranian professor at the vub in brussels, who was sentenced to death after a sham trial and under a false pretext two years ago. he has been languishing in a cell since then, awaiting his execution, which has been continually delayed, fortunately under international pressure, but without access to a lawyer or a doctor. many binationalists are in the same situation, such as the british-iranian researcher abbas edalat, who was arrested a month ago without any charges being brought against him. what are we gonna do? at a time when donald trump is threatening to withdraw from the nuclear deal, iran needs our european partner more than ever. that is where we have a weapon, a lever, commissioner, to force iran to release all these political hostages.
mr president, today at least 14 foreign and dual nationals are imprisoned in iran. some - you said it - are sentenced to death. i am thinking in particular of ahmad reza jalali, who is well known and appreciated in our country, but also in all the others. what did they do? no one knows. trials in iran are mock trials, with confessions most often obtained under torture and on the basis of unverifiable accusations. in reality, in iran, the judiciary is nothing but a repressive instrument of the theocratic dictatorship of the mullahs. the european union is rightly trying - and i support its efforts - to save the international nuclear agreement with iran. this is no reason to turn a blind eye to the constant violations in this country, not only against binational citizens, but also against all iranian citizens who disagree with the clerical dictatorship in place. we demand the immediate and unconditional release of all unjustly detained dual nationals and we demand the release of all unjustly convicted and imprisoned iranian citizens. failure to do so is to become an accomplice to the abuses of a dictatorship.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you to look at this. this is ahmadreza djalali, visiting professor at the free university of brussels. a husband and father of two who has always been committed to the cause of humanity and science. two photos of the same man: after two years in an iranian prison, he barely recognizes himself, a shadow of himself, and he's counting on our help. the iranian leaders are keeping ahmadreza and other european detainees alive for fear of economic reprisals, but releasing them would cause them to lose face at home. this hypocrisy is creating a hopeless path of suffering for ahmadreza and his family. as the european union, we must not be blind to this dark reality. iran is and remains a theocracy that flirts with the west, but has no intention of deviating from its dictatorial course. the eu's aspiration for stability must not lead us to look the other way when it comes to human rights, not even in the wake of the withdrawal of the united states from the nuclear agreement. i call on all european leaders to condemn in every consultation, in every contact with the country, the mistreatment of european prisoners and to call for their release.
in our own municipality of koksijde, east dunkirk, we have a wonderful cultural centre, the casino, known throughout the region for its excellent programming for young and old. first of all, of course, it is thanks to a fantastic team of cultural workers who dedicate their hearts and souls to the task every day. it is a pity that these people should be disappointed in the european union. europe is planning to introduce new rules for stage lighting in theatrical productions, but even the latest lighting could not meet those rules. it can't be. cultural centres that continually invest in new, sustainable, greener equipment, we should reward rather than punish. that is why my party, the n-va, and our group here in the european parliament have tabled an amendment to maintain special regulations for theatrical lighting. i am very pleased that this amendment has been adopted by a large majority. we are counting on the same common sense of the other european institutions to preserve this.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to say that i am proud to be part of a parliament which was able to secure a large majority last december to reform the dublin system. i think that if the solutions we have adopted here were to become reality, we would not be in the situation we are in today - a situation where a ship with more than 600 people on board, including more than 130 minors, is tossed from one place to another in the mediterranean because two countries have decided to close their ports to it, in breach of their legal obligations. so i understand the frustration of italy, malta, greece, bulgaria and spain, who are too often left alone by the dublin rule to face the immigration challenge. it's obvious, we can't leave them alone. however, this does not excuse what is happening and we think that this should be put on the agenda. we tried to find a compromise title. i can understand that our socialist colleagues, who do not want to lose their solidarity with the maltese prime minister, would like to see no mention of closing ports, which is fine with me, even if that is the trigger, so we could rephrase the title. i will say this in english, because that is the title we found: 'council and commission statement on humanitarian emergencies in the mediterranean and solidarity in the european union'. other we could agree to this compromise title, i hope it will find a large majority in this house.
mr president, i am informed that the committee on civil liberties is preparing a resolution on a very related subject which will be on the agenda for july. i think we can do without a resolution at this stage and just have a debate.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i ask myself why we have to wait until wednesday. we have a european council debate tomorrow. this european council debate will be about migration, so i am telling you that i am going to intervene about this scandal tomorrow. i am not going to wait until wednesday, because the commission and the council will be there. so my request to you is that we don’t wait until wednesday and that we add it to the debate on the european council tomorrow, as it will be one of the points. in my proposal, mrs rodrigues, it’s not a question of pointing the finger at one or other country and saying: ‘oh how good we are when the socialists are in the government; how bad we are…’. i think in malta you are in the government, aren’t you? so don’t start this little political game on the backbone of migrants. i don’t like it and nobody likes it. (applause) my request is very simple: please, mr president, put it as an additional point tomorrow with the commission and the council. i think the scandal is so great that we cannot wait for a separate debate on wednesday afternoon. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president, i understand the logic of mr verhofstadt's proposal. the advantage is that there is no waiting, since it happens tomorrow morning, but the disadvantage is that there are many issues on the council's agenda. i am thinking in particular of the future of the economic and monetary union, brexit and the migration issue. we are afraid that the point we are going to discuss here will be diluted in a debate which will cover a lot of things and that all this will not be very clear in the end. so, in theory, we are... (inaudible interruption) can i still speak? (the president cut the speaker off) our preferred option is a separate debate and, as a fall-back solution, if there is no majority for this option, we add the title to the... (the president withdrew the floor)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, after the financial crisis, when the european market infrastructure regulation (emir) was put in place, it resulted – and we welcomed that – not only in more transparency on the derivatives market, but also in more central clearing, which is a welcome development. there is still progress to be made, and the first positive aspect of the text that we are going to adopt is that we insist that central clearing should go up; the share of the market that should be centrally cleared cannot go down, it has to go up. second, this idea of having more conservative methods to decide whether small financial counterparties are below the clearing threshold is also welcome. on these pension funds: i remember the study carried out by the european securities and markets authority (esma) showing how badly pension funds were funded. when pension funds have to resort not only to derivatives, but to over-the-counter derivatives to run their business, then something is probably badly wrong. they made promises that they cannot possibly hold. i do not think that this is a reason to exclude them from the obligation of central clearing. the two—plus—one is welcome, and they cannot complain about that; they have to run their businesses in a sustainable way. we are going to vote on this report, but i would finish by saying this: warren buffett mentioned these derivatives as weapons of mass financial destruction. this was not by chance. these products are used in such volumes that they dwarf the real economy. 30 or 40 years ago, we had a working economy and we did not have this mass of derivatives. there are probably a lot of these derivatives that are unneeded and dangerous, and this is still a work in progress. secondly, central clearing houses are becoming ‘too big to fail’ institution. they are systemic, and we should better regulate on how we deal with them in case of crisis.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. summer vacation is just around the corner. many vacationers will soon be flying back to their favorite destination, and they want to do so in a safe and comfortable way. perhaps others will buy their first drone this summer or a european entrepreneur will bring the next innovation to the industry. more and more people are getting involved in aviation, and the figures show that. in 2035, 14.4 million passenger flights will be operated in europe. that's 50% more than in 2012. we are also seeing this steep rise in the drone sector, which will create 100 000 jobs over the next 20 years. this is good for the economy, employment and competitiveness of the european union. but let us not forget the safety of passengers and the impact on man and the environment. today we are taking an important step in the right direction. we embrace promising innovations, but also provide the necessary safety framework. proportionality, less red tape and a sense of reality are key. in this way, we facilitate innovative ideas and save the recreational aviation industry a lot of headaches. and we also have specific rules for drones. a vital step in safely integrating these unmanned aircraft into our airspace. as with other devices, manufacturers and operators will have to pay attention to security, privacy and protection of personal data in the future. a measure that benefits both the users of drones and the people on the ground. finally, i would ask the european aviation safety agency to continue its good work and to carry out its new set of tasks with diligence.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have to say to you that if i hear mr weber and then mr bullmann afterwards, i ask myself whether there is a government in berlin or have i missed something? i have not the impression that there is – in any way, on a number of issues – a common german position for the moment and that is one of the problems for the moment in the european union, but that is not my item. ms panayotova, the next european council can talk and talk and talk and discuss and write conclusions on whatever issue that you want, and there is a long list of issues – brexit, the governance of the eurozone, the defence union, the multiannual financial framework, the trump and kim summit – you name it, but in my opinion – and mr bullmann has already said it – there is one item, one crisis, which i urge you not just to talk about this time, but to act on now, and it is this ongoing migration crisis in the mediterranean sea. i think we all agree on this – you, the commission, the whole parliament, all the political groups – that what is happening there is a disgrace, it is a scandal, and already for years now. i am contradicting mr timmermans a little bit now when he says yes, it is not the same as in the past. no, it is not the same as in the past, but since the start of this mandate, mr timmermans, there will be more than 10 000 people who will have died in the mediterranean sea. and since the beginning of this year, there are 800 people, men, women and children, who have drowned in the mediterranean sea. and now it is the same with this boat – 600 people, seven pregnant women, pushed from country to country. it is a disgrace, it is a scandal. i will not point my finger in this debate at one individual country, not at malta, not at italy. i do not think we have to point a finger at mr muscat and say it’s your fault, or at mr salvini even. i reject completely the ideas of mr salvini, but i think we have to point the finger not at you personally, so don’t take it personally, but at all of you, at the whole of the european council which is not capable until this moment to take a position on this migration issue and on the reform of the dublin system. it is a collective responsibility. i am always asking myself why we made the european council an official institution of the european union under the lisbon treaty. in the lisbon treaty we said, yes, the european council has to become an official institution of the european union, to take decisions, to steer the union, and what we see today is exactly the opposite, the incapacity of the european council to take a decision on this. so my question to you – i have only one simple question – is: when for god’s sake will the european council take a decision on this migration issue, and when will you take responsibility? i want also to urge you to do two things at the next european council. i think there are two things you need to do. the first is to have this common position of dublin; mr bullmann and others have already recalled this. but the second thing in my opinion is to do another thing, and that is to create as fast as possible, very urgently, what i call european reception centres in the transit countries so that we take our responsibility in these transit countries to give decent protection to these people, and that these people can ask in these reception centres for asylum, for protection, so that it is not necessary for them to jump into the arms and into the hands of these criminal gangs in libya or in these gangs of human traffickers – because that is what needs doing at the moment. and to media colleagues, the picture of the year – because everybody is talking today about what will be the picture of the year – will it be six european leaders humouring mr trump in canada, or will the picture of the year be the handshake between trump and kim? i think, unfortunately, and to our disgrace, the picture of the year could be again another little alan who is the victim of our bad policies on migration. i say to you mr tajani, i support you fully in what you said at the beginning of the debate. if the council fails again at its next meeting, in my opinion we should really put the question if we have to invite mr tusk to our next meeting in july. or more, i think we have to consider going to court under article 265 of the treaty. article 265 of the treaty will give the commission and the european parliament the possibility to go against the council if the council fails to act, which is the case here today.
i thank you, madam president. a year and a half is a long time in european politics. a year and a half ago, mr. verhofstadt was negotiating with mr. beppe grillo. he wanted the italian five star movement in his alde group. meanwhile, love seems to have cooled a bit. a year and a half ago, all that was talked about was spreading, spreading, spreading migrants, as if that was the solution to the asylum and migration crisis. in the meantime, we are also talking about something else, we are talking about stronger european borders, we are talking about pushbacks, we are talking about more and better reception in the region. little by little, the insights come, the common sense comes, one realizes that this is the only way to control mass migration, to crack down on human traffickers, and to finally stop those drownings in the mediterranean. that is the understanding that exists, at least in the member states, but unfortunately in this european parliament it is still far too little. that's why the next six months are going to be so crucial. austria will then chair the european council. i wish mr kurz all the best in pushing this realistic agenda forward in the future.
on behalf of the group of the european right thank you, mr president. today we are debating the creation of an emf, a european monetary fund, the european variant of the imf. the fund could help member states with bad paperwork. an interesting idea in itself, but it's not clear what exactly that emf means, how it's going to be filled in. will it be an emf in the strict version of mr schäuble, the former german finance minister, or will it be the more lax interpretation of the european commission? if i look at the origins of that idea of the emf, you end up with a 2010 opinion piece in the economist written by daniel gross and thomas meyer. the european commission then started working on this idea of an emf. what's interesting is that gross and meyer wrote an update of their paper six months ago, in december 2017, assessing and analyzing the european commission's proposals. and what is their conclusion? they wanted a european monetary fund that would ensure more budgetary discipline and stronger debt management. i look at the commission's proposals and it seems that it is more inclined to encourage yet another solidarity mechanism, when we know that transfers encourage irresponsible behaviour rather than greater responsibility. gross and meyer also saw the emf as a non-political institution that could judge in a neutral and economic way. they also want to talk about an exit scenario from the euro, that it is not taboo. both proposals are not supported by the european commission. in short: the commission is threatening to encourage irresponsibility. and then suddenly she is surprised that the northern member states do not want to play along, that the northern member states want to keep the reins in their hands and want an intergovernmental solution. it's clear what needs to be done. it is time for the commission to change its mind.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it will soon be 150 years since germany was united and 30 years since it was reunified. this political union was preceded by a customs and monetary union and since then germany has not been economically homogeneous. but no one doubts its durability. so what holds germany together? on the political level, of course, a common language and institutions; in economic terms, it is a single market governed by broadly common tax and social rules. this federal taxation feeds a federal budget of more than 10% of gdp which, together with a federal social security, constitute extremely robust mechanisms of economic solidarity. in addition, there is a system of direct budgetary transfers between the regions, so that today three regions contribute more to the federation than they receive, and the other thirteen do the opposite. i take germany as an example because it is both the member state which benefits most from economic and monetary union and one of those where resistance to any change in the structure of the euro is strongest. the history of germany shows us above all how the economic and monetary union should evolve if it is to avoid disintegration. we have built a single market and then a single currency backed by a federal central bank, but in this market and in relation to the rest of the world, member states are engaged in a tax, social and commercial competition that is barely regulated and the only mechanism of economic redistribution at our disposal is the very modest budget of the european union, which represents 1% of gdp. is it any wonder that this whole thing is producing divergence rather than convergence? to believe that the euro has a future in this context is to deny reality. if we want to give it a future, the solutions are known: banking union, including common deposit guarantee; a much more robust common budget with its own revenues, typically a fraction of the corporate tax or the price of co2; finally, in the absence of social and fiscal unification, we must at least abandon competition in favour of cooperation. otherwise, a return to national currencies will be inevitable. some, including those in this room, want to do so, either because they think that the political will to achieve the necessary reforms will never exist, or because they think that the nation-state is the only space in which democratic sovereignty can be exercised. it's not our choice. we are convinced that the end of the single currency would lead the european union down the spiral of decomposition, a decomposition which would leave the member states as pawns in the face of the multinationals, in a situation where the trumps, the putins or the xi of this world would take pleasure in turning against each other to our common detriment. we europeans will soon be five per cent of the world's population. whether we like it or not, our unity is the condition for our sovereignty, political and fiscal sovereignty, social and economic sovereignty. so, i ask you: is donald trump going to be the catalyst for this awareness? we hope, but we don't see the signs yet. on the contrary, we still see too many member states presenting the issue in a moral light: the virtuous states of the north should not subsidize the fishermen states of the south. i would remind them that germany, where this moralizing discourse is ubiquitous, mr president, is also the home of deutsche bank, one of the most corrupt banks in the world, and of an automobile industry which has knowingly deceived the public for decades. no one, no country, has a monopoly on virtue or vice! the survival of the euro is a matter of common interest, and let us hope that those who will have to decide will realise this in time.
mr president, 16 years ago the euro was introduced in 12 countries of the european union. the french franc, the mark, the peseta, the guilder. one currency, one monetary policy, one exchange rate policy. it was and it is a historic project. but it was and is also a project that is not yet finished. monetary union can only work in conjunction with a budgetary and a political union. the economic policies of the member states must be coordinated. everyone must control their public debt. we knew that, and yet we looked the other way for years, until the financial crisis of 2008. the construction of the eurozone, which was and is still in fact not fully completed, is a very important part of the process. and the sun is shining, ladies and gentlemen. that's why today we must repair our house. the european union has a knack for carrying out repairs only in bad weather. but anyone with a shred of common sense knows that we must act now. because now the sun is shining. there is economic growth, unemployment is falling and investment is rising again. but apparently good weather isn't enough to fix the roof. we should really take the ladder, climb up on the roof and get to work. that's why we're calling you, colleagues. the economic conditions are there, but we must show political courage. let's take advantage of the good weather, because sooner or later the storm will come again. we must all go home and explain why it is so important to complete the banking union, why the eurozone is necessary and why the budgetary rules are not a piece of paper but are crucial to the success of this project.
thank you, mr president. we are all concerned about the increasing threat to human rights, the rule of law and democratic values. and the eu is right to promote the universality of human rights and fundamental freedoms in its external policy. but we have a problem, commissioner. we have a problem with our credibility and our clout if we don't apply internally what we propagate externally. i have witnessed firsthand how in catalonia police violence was used in a brutal and excessive manner against peaceful voters. politicians and civil society leaders are being held far from home, some for seven months, as political prisoners. the eu is a safe haven for those persecuted on the other side of the world, and that is a good thing. but for catalan and european citizens, whose democratic rights are being repressed, the eu has little solidarity. and that undermines our credibility. and it's one of the reasons why trust in this european story is under serious pressure.
nato and the european union remain the two cornerstones of the european security architecture. we fully support closer cooperation between the eu and nato. by coordinating our defence efforts more closely at international level, we are developing a more efficient and effective defence. the current hybrid threats, cyberattacks, terrorism and so on, are just some of the challenges that are calling for this. my delegation has also won in favour of the building of a european defence community. specific partnerships between certain eu member states are a first step. belgium and the netherlands, for example, cooperate closely in joint purchases and maintenance of frigates and minehunters, or in air surveillance missions. the permanent structured cooperation in the field of defence (pesco) should play a central role in this. but we are happy to leave the further interpretation to the member states, who have exclusive competence in this area.
it was like the procession of echternach, but after two years of resistance, ukraine finally gets an anti-corruption court. this is the necessary final step in the fight against the endemic scourge of corruption and a necessary condition for new european macrofinancial assistance, which we therefore fully support. the ukrainian public and civil society support the fight against corruption. the ukrainian people made very heavy sacrifices for this during the euromaidan revolution. that is why i am continually surprised that kiev, with its current leaders at the helm, so often presses the accelerator and the handbrake at the same time. in this way, reforms all too often fail, are watered down and have so far failed to convince the fight against corruption. the creation of the anti-corruption court, with independent judges, is a step in the right direction. we must monitor the concrete implementation as well as the entire reform agenda. it will also have to lead, for example, to a more modern and democratic electoral law and an operational rule of law.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external relations. any tool that protects women a little more from violence is of great importance. i would stress that we are dealing here with the most heinous crimes against women, such as genital mutilation, forced abortion and forced sterilization, child marriages, rape and honour killings. people can and should have religious beliefs, but this should never stand in the way of protecting women. i cannot understand and accept that culture, custom, religion, tradition or so-called 'honour' can be an excuse to oppress and abuse women. i ask you all: what's honorable about violence against women? and how can fighting violence be inconsistent with traditional values? i am deeply sorry that it is proving so difficult to send a strong signal against violence in the eu. violence against women, and by extension against all genders, has no place in our european society. we are so happy to beat ourselves up for our european values and fundamental rights, but we have a hard time condemning the most flagrant form of discrimination. i think this is unworthy of the european union.
for the alde group - the group. mr. prime minister, my dear mark. welcome to the european parliament. i have to tell you i agree with you. the new world order needs a new europe and it's completely useless and unproductive to continue a discussion now, 20 years on, about less and more and more and less. what we need is not more or less it's new, it's something else, it's something different to the europe we got in the past. i liked the word you used: a more perfect union, because a more perfect union is a sentence in the american constitution, and in the american constitution, they are not talking about a bigger union or a smaller union theyre talking about a more efficient union, a more united union, a more perfect union. it's good to look to the past of the netherlands, as frans timmermans has done, to see where we have to go because the netherlands in my opinion, were robbed a little bit avant la lettre. there were seven independent provinces who worked together and beat the spanish armada, with a little bit of help from the british, but we have forgotten that, naturally, for the moment. the bad weather also helped them a lot. afterwards, in 1602, mark, what did you do? what the netherlands did was unite the fleets, in one fleet, in one confederation, in one nation, establishing the dutch golden age. that is the example that you have given to europe, and what we have to do is to copy that by creating a european golden age in a certain way, a european golden age in a time where we are surrounded, i should say, by a circle of evil, and by that, i mean putin. i mean erdogan. i also mean, on a bad day and thats nearly every day mr. trump for the moment, for example, on trade matters. we need a europe that is also in solidarity with you, mark, and with the dutch people and the dutch victims of mh17, and i ask the commission, president juncker and president tusk to examine in what way in the international court case in the hague we can be in full solidarity with the dutch in that court case because the russians continuing to deny their responsibility is a scandal, and europe has to be behind the netherlands and much more outspoken on that issue. (applause from the left) but as we all know, putin gets away with everything: the shooting down of flight mh17, the cyber attacks against baltic states, murders in the streets of london, killing of political opponents in moscow, the illegal occupation of ukraine and some regions in other soviet republics. i think it's time to wake up, particularly at a time when we have an american president who is more comfortable with autocrats than with his old western democratic allies. that's a wake-up call. that's the inconvenient truth. the inconvenient truth is that if there were to be an attack by someone on european soil tomorrow, we couldn't be sure that the americans would help us. we need to take responsibility, we need to build up our own european defence community, and i agreed with manfred weber when he said we need to get rid of the unanimity rule in all these matters as soon as possible. it doesn't make any sense to continue like that. our problem is not only that we maybe have a different point of view on this issue. we have another problem, and it is that we have inside the european union, inside the european family, a fifth column in our ranks. let's be honest i call them the cheerleaders of putin: farage, le pen, wilders and others. their friends are sitting here and they are, in fact, doing only one thing: they take the money from the kremlin, they take the intelligence of the kremlin, like mr arron banks, the friend of mr farage, who colluded and even contributed, with the help of the russians, to creating brexit. these people work together, in fact, with mr orban, but mr weber said nothing about mr orban today. i'm a little bit disappointed. it's time that we stop this cooperation with people like orban, kaczyński and salvini who are working with all these nationalists and populists. (applause from the left) i am pleased that you spoke about a europe of values at the end of your speech and your introduction, as macron did, as bettel did, as charles michel did. in fact, we as liberals can never accept the illiberal plot of these people, and we and you have to be at the forefront to fight against them. - thank you. - thank you. (applause from the left)
president. - the debate is closed. that was an interesting speech, mr rutte. it is a pity that you did not give them at least partly in dutch. but you can make up for that at the world cup. oh, no, you're not part of that. more serious now. i always regret that the netherlands cannot play along. that makes the international and european competition less interesting. i like you guys on the field. i have the impression, when i hear some of my colleagues here in the european parliament, that they would rather see a european team than that competition between the different member states. that's not my view. europe now. the competition must also be at european level. and that is my question to you. how are we going to organize this competition? let's be honest here. we see france and germany trying to pull the rug back on themselves again, in a counter-reaction to the visegrad and club med countries. how are we going to make our voices sound louder? that is my question to the netherlands, denmark, ireland and finland, the smaller countries of northern europe. how will we make our message more powerful?
prime minister, good afternoon. i am sitting in the back of this house in the angel's box, right in front of you. yes, you can see me. we had a debate here yesterday on the future of economic and monetary union. and the consensus was actually quite large. emu was and still is a historic project, but it is far from finished. we knew that, but we looked the other way for years, until the 2008 financial crisis, actually. we really need to fix that emu. but opinions on this are still very divided. i would like to return briefly to the creation of emu. many economists and academics agreed from the outset that a monetary union cannot work without budgetary capacity. there is no other monetary union in the world without such a budgetary and political link. yet we started that shaky construction. political interests took precedence, economic laws had to be subdued. so here 's the question: what do you think went wrong in creating emu? if you had been on the delors committee in 1989 drawing up the blueprint for emu, how would you have gone about making sure that we were on the right track today?
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is first and foremost a union of values, a community of values based on the equal dignity of every human person. to protect these values as best we can, we have chosen a political regime, democracy. a democracy now being challenged at the very heart of the union. because democracy is not just about universal suffrage. the electoral system must also allow for a fair representation of society in all its diversity. the citizens must also be able to obtain information freely from an independent press. but the wall of separation of powers must still stand against all abuses. it is precisely on this front that the polish government that emerged from the 2015 elections openly challenges our common values. he has taken political control of the judiciary and is now attacking the supreme court, the last remaining independent court. we welcome the action taken by the commission, which did not hesitate to initiate the rule of law procedure against poland. but we must admit that the results to date are meagre and that the bulk of the contested measures remain in place. the polish government also knows that it can count on its allies in the council, in particular mr orbán's hungary. and, madam panayotova, bulgaria's absolute timidity raises the question: is this an embarrassment or a tacit complicity? still, time is of the essence. if nothing is done, on 3 july a large number of supreme court judges will be dismissed, paving the way for the government to appoint a majority of judges by hand. we have written to you together with our polish friends, mr timmermans, asking you to use all the means at your disposal to prevent this from happening. on behalf of all poles who share our values, on behalf of all democrats, i repeat this appeal to you today: urgently refer the matter to the court of justice of the european union. beyond the polish case, the essence of the judiciary is under threat in several eu states. it is not only in poland that attempts are made to subordinate him to the executive, and a subordinate judiciary opens the way to all abuses of power. in other countries, budget cuts, whether brutal or deliberate, paralyse the judiciary in its primary mission of delivering justice. is there still any question of justice when years pass between a crime or a misdemeanour and its punishment? is there still any question of justice when citizens no longer turn to the courts for financial reasons? finally, mr timmermans, in the name of the fight against terrorism, it has become common practice to exclude the judiciary from the game. while no bombing has ever been committed because a judge failed to issue a warrant in time, here again the door is open to all abuses. i would ask you, mr president, to exercise your role as guardian of the treaties and of our fundamental values without weakness or favouritism. no government - and i insist on this - is a priori suspect - i conclude, mr president - but no government can be a priori spared your surveillance. what is at stake here is a fundamental element of our democracies and, as you yourself have said, democracy is never an irreversible acquis.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, nothing, nothing can justify a country closing its ports to a ship laden with people in distress. mr salvini has used human lives to engage in political blackmail and, incidentally, electoral manipulation. this is beyond description. however, we understand and share the anger of the citizens of italy, malta and greece, these countries on the front line of the reception of migrants, who are too often left to their own devices by the other member states. from salvini's italy to kurz's austria, from de wever's belgium to macron's france, orbán's hungary and kaczynski's poland, fortress europe seems to have become the alpha and omega for a majority of european leaders. under the guise of firmness and humanity, they are trying to suppress and contain at a distance, even if they have to pay dictators or armed gangs to turn their country into an open-air prison. but let us face the reality, the challenge of migration - as you said, commissioner - will not disappear. between wars and persecution, hunger, climate change and economic exploitation, the causes that drive human beings on the path to exile remain burning. if the heads of state and government - who often boast of being leaders - are stumbling upon responses that are costly, inhumane and doomed to failure, the european parliament has taken a different direction, and like you, mr president, i am proud to belong to an assembly that has managed to find a large majority to put an end to the dublin system and replace it with a collective, responsible and solidary approach. but the politicians sitting here are from the same countries and belong to the same parties as the heads of state and government and their ministers, so tell me why what is possible for us here is impossible for them behind the closed doors of the council. if mr salvini is really seeking the solidarity of europeans, he knows what he has to do: support parliament's position in the council. one thing is certain: by dehumanizing migrants to justify fortress europe, we are trampling on our core values. nobody, nobody is asking the european union to take in the 65 million people who are displaced within or outside their own countries! but europe is far from taking its fair share of the responsibility for welcoming refugees. we can, we must do more, and better. it is a question of justice, solidarity and responsibility. it is more a question of ethics and humanity.
in writing. the aquarius' odyssey is more than a wake-up call. this case shows us the importance of clear european agreements. let this be the ultimate argument to finally force the european breakthrough, which will allow the council of ministers to unblock the reform of asylum policy, and sign an agreement for a rapid, uniform processing of asylum applications and an agreement on the further development of an effective european border and coast guard, with 10 000 border guards (7 times more than today). not a policy of pushbacks, but a policy that prevents people from getting into old boats, and effectively, but correctly, returns expelled migrants. without holding them back or pushing them back onto old boats. an agreement that allows migrants to apply to hotspots in africa, but provides protection for war refugees, and especially the most vulnerable among them. i sincerely hope that the aquarius will also provide the impetus for the launch of a far-reaching marshall plan for africa. we have a strong interest in investing in the region, primarily in renewable energy and sustainable agriculture. the existing trust fund for africa urgently needs to be expanded into a comprehensive investment pact, to generate opportunities and prospects in the region.
in writing. mr president, i would like to say that what we have seen in the last few days is shameful, unseen and unworthy, but reality commands me to say that there is really nothing new under the sun. since the entry into force of the dublin regulation, we have seen that migrants are the plaything of european governments and administrations. people are not registered and not picked up, so they quietly disappear under the radar. when migrants apply for asylum, the uncertainty of the dublin transfer hangs over their heads. and now the ports are closing to vulnerable people. dublin is creating a zero-sum game, and the democrats are the losers. because make no mistake, salvini does not profit from the fact that italy has to take in 600 migrants. the advantage is that he can score on the hood of vulnerable people. that is why i am now addressing every democrat in the council: you must act now. the game must end. reform dublin now, because with every ounce of dignity we take from vulnerable people, we take a little bit of our own dignity. you must act now because you are responsible for what the eu will become in the next elections.
member of the commission. – mr president, i’m really happy to be here today for this debate on the proportionality test directive ahead of tomorrow’s final vote. with this proposal, we have jointly delivered on the first part of our services package of january 2017. i really welcome your cooperation and your support. what do we want to achieve with this directive? you know that negotiations were thorough, they were intense, but we reached an agreement in just over a year, so relatively shortly. let me briefly recall the goal of the directive. we want to improve the quality of the future regulation of professional services. as your rapporteur said, they are of utmost importance for our economies. business services, including professional services such as accountants, lawyers, engineers and architects account for almost 13% of eu value added. regulated professions all together make up nearly 22% of the european labour force, so almost 47 million people. and research shows that services inputs, including professional services, account for about 40% of the value added in manufacturing industries. so it’s extremely important for our economies. we also note that poorly-designed regulation creates obstacles, especially for young graduates trying to access these professions and for professionals when carrying out their professions. so we need to ensure that across the eu, the new regulation is really proportionate in order to protect public interests and that it does not create needless obstacles. this directive will help member states with devising their regulations. it will mean that we can minimise any negative effects on the single market, on competitiveness or on the mobility of professionals. it does not prevent member states from adopting new requirements, but it does prevent unjustified ones. we are not losing sight of existing requirements either. we adopted reform recommendations on the existing regulation of professional services as part of the services package. you discussed these recommendations recently – i’m really grateful for that, and i want to thank mr danti for a report that really encourages us to pursue this important work together with the member states, and we are doing exactly that. the proportionality test directive complements this by helping member state authorities to fulfil their obligations under existing legislation, and of course, court judgments. it sets out very clear rules on how to determine whether planned legislation is really fit for purpose and makes sure that this is determined in advance of legislation being adopted. we have insisted many times that the commission should make enforcement of existing rules a priority, and we are doing exactly that. but we have to recognise that ex-post enforcement actions are definitely not enough. the new directive will help us provide clarity on the general obligation of the principle of proportionality. as i said, i’m really grateful for the way that we have worked together on this proposal. the compromise, i think, strikes the right balance. the outcome of the negotiations maintains the overall objective of the proposed directive. it maintains legal certainty and coherence, while at the same time making sure that important public interests such as patient safety – which was raised many times – and our human health are really clearly acknowledged. there were many moments where some doubted that this directive should cover all of the professions, but clearly, the principle of proportionality applies to all professions, so i am grateful that this house – you, honourable members – has managed to find a good compromise. i also welcome the enhanced transparency and additional focus on the principle of non-discrimination. transparency has to be ensured before and after a new regulation is adopted in the member states. relevant stakeholders shall now be involved before member states adopt the new regulation on professional services. the reason why the regulation was found to be necessary will be available to all after its adoption. you also have drawn attention to the obstacles that may hit professionals when they want to provide temporary or occasional services, so i welcome the addition that proportionality of requirements related specifically to this temporary or occasional provision of services must be assessed. the qualifications directive already says that professionals must be able to provide their services in other member states without unnecessary administrative hurdles. but of course, too often member states demand plenty of information from professionals instead of just using direct cooperation with other member states via our well-established internal market information tool, imi. let me be clear that this does not affect the posting of workers or the application of local working conditions. i think that the adoption of this directive will not be the end of our work in this field; rather, it is the beginning. we will look closely into the implementation of this directive and will assist member states. we will place special emphasis on the transparency that you introduced for the regulation and its rationale via our regulated professions database. this database has really become a reference tool for professional regulations in the eu. i would especially like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, the competent ministers and, of course, the presidency for your cooperation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. over 5500 professions are currently regulated in the eu. and there are still significant problems with the mutual recognition of professional qualifications between member states. we still receive a great many complaints, for example, when one member state imposes absurd conditions on the exercise of one's profession in another member state. this can't be. that is why this proportionality test, as it is now being enacted here in this act, is an important step. it will help to simplify the recognition of professions across borders. this is particularly important for people who live on a border, as i represent them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. another component of the so-called service package was the so-called electronic service card, and i shall come back to it very shortly. i have made it quite clear in committee that i am against it and i have even contributed to its rejection by my voting behaviour. why was that important? this service card would have brought up all the problems that we were trying to combat with the posting of workers directive. it would have made effective controls more difficult and would have opened a new door to social dumping. we must fight social dumping more effectively than we simplify it. of course, it remains important for companies to be able to offer their services across borders. that is what our internal market is all about. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens at work.
rules on regulated professions should be proportionate but also targeted. if they're not, this test will filter them out. it is therefore a smart regulation tool with which we are giving a strong push to the development of the european services market. i read in this legislation above all that the safety of the patient is paramount at all times and also that my own region, flanders, is granted a great deal of freedom in the organisation of its health professions. i therefore believe that compulsory dutch language tests for doctors starting work in flanders are in line with the principles so clearly set out in this new directive: quality, accessible and efficient health care.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, cotonou has had the immense merit of combining development aid, trade and the political nature of our relations. these elements of the spirit of this historic agreement must of course not only be preserved, but in my view ambitiously amplified in a legally binding agreement. we cannot afford to miss this unique opportunity which should enable us to be genuine political partners at last. partners whose destinies are irrevocably and ideally linked in economic, environmental, industrial, ethical and political terms. i am thinking of genuine gender equality policies, a humane and legal migration policy, the consolidation of sovereign states whose authority and legitimacy could no longer be arbitrarily questioned. so, commissioner, i can of course understand the proposal for a pillar structure topped by a coordination dome. in the end, it is a bit of a continuation of what exists today. but i cannot help but see the danger of keeping our relations with africa in particular in too narrow a box. we could very well make the pacific and the caribbean part of their geographical, cultural and natural historical reality. i am one of those who believe that the creation of a large free trade area covering both continents and respecting the current bilateral association agreements would be an effective response to the uncertainties that are disfiguring the morale of africans and europeans. the resulting prosperity, commissioner, would offer young people in africa and europe an unprecedented prospect of economic and democratic development. i believe that this is the only real solution to the problems we face in dealing with migration. i can think of no better way to support the immigration pact initiated by the un secretary-general, antonio gutierrez. i am also in full agreement with mr engel's argument that such an alliance would obviously have a much greater positive impact on the world. this vision of the cotonou agreements would finally deprive the sordid populists of all their cynical arguments and rhetoric. (the president interrupts) so i will finish, i will finish, and i will repeat what i have to say! this vision of the cotonou agreements would finally deprive the sordid populists of all their cynical arguments and deadly rhetoric.
mr president, the partnership agreement between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group is extremely important, and today we must reposition ourselves in the framework of a european, african, caribbean and pacific group agreement. it is true that today, if you ask european citizens about cotonou, the post-cotonou, i think there will be few citizens who know exactly what we are talking about. the same applies to citizens of africa or the caribbean or the pacific who, if questioned, will not know exactly what we are talking about. the first challenge we must therefore face, as europeans and with our partners, is to ensure that everyone knows what is in these agreements. i join my predecessors who said that civil society should be involved in these agreements, in the discussions about these agreements, that there should be a process of ownership by civil society for the negotiation of these future agreements. it seems to me important that the people of europe and the people of africa, the caribbean and the pacific should be properly informed of what we are doing. secondly, the work we have to do at parliamentary level is also important. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament, and that it is a very good initiative. environmental challenges, demographic and population challenges, resource use challenges, transparency and governance challenges are challenges we share with these different countries and with the countries of the european union. i am a little saddened today to see that when we address these countries, we do so only with the concern of migration, when this same migration is in fact a wealth that we must share with these countries. so i think that the future of cotonou is also to be able to project itself into a common future with all these countries and i hope that we will all succeed in this challenge together.
in 2016, i worked as a shadow rapporteur on the resolution on combating illegal wildlife trade. i was then advocating a european ban on ivory trade, without any back doors. because illegal ivory always finds its way into the legal circuit. i repeat my plea today. ivory trade is deadly to biodiversity and threatens to turn elephants and rhinos into 'living dinosaurs'. but the ivory trade has other disastrous and often deadly consequences. trade annually puts billions of euros in the hands of criminals, militias and terrorist organisations, creating insecurity and instability. moreover, trade in ivory is growing spectacularly and we, as the european union, are involved as a market and as a hub. a strong fight against these criminal activities and the closure of our ivory market are necessary to ensure the protection of the species and our safety. the european union can and must make a difference.
today in moscow, the world cup begins with the opening match between the russian and saudi teams. neither is a footballing giant, and neither is a democracy in the economist's democracy index. in the list of host cities for the world cup , i see some names that sound like: moscow, st. petersburg, sochi, but not labytnangi. i'm not sure where they are. and that's not surprising, because that's a small town just above the arctic circle. there, filmmaker oleg sentsov is fighting a lonely battle from his cell, a hunger strike that has now lasted a month. with this last remaining means, he is calling for attention to be paid to all ukrainian political prisoners in the country. he himself was convicted for his criticism of the illegal annexation of crimea, an excessive propaganda stunt by putin. colleagues, in a few weeks, the football circus will leave russia and the country will return to darkness. i call on all european leaders to condemn strongly during this world cup the imprisonment of oleg sentsov and all other ukrainian political prisoners. today i am already a supporter of oleg sentsov!
president. - mr president, i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to give you the information you requested. babies born of hate and violence, not love. mothers who are already living in very miserable conditions, often with children who are not in school and who are malnourished. i would like to draw particular attention to the plight of mothers and children. how can you expect a mom to love a child born of a brutal rape? we have to support those parents. we have to help these moms. we have to take care of these kids. and that is the task of europe. life in those camps is miserable. and today europe must send a signal, we must punish the perpetrators. but we must focus on the care of mothers who are about to give birth, so that at least these children have a fair chance in these camps. we have to. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, a lot has been said this morning about the tragedy of the rohingya and their forced exile in bangladesh: 900 000 refugees, including more than half a million children, who are living, surviving or not really surviving in the cox's bazar camp, in appalling living conditions; we expect 50,000 babies to be born in these makeshift camps, a real humanitarian and health challenge. our parliament is doing just that by focusing on the plight of children. they are the first victims of the diphtheria epidemic, which occurred in december. doctors without borders also raises the alarm about the total lack of access to education for them. and forgive me for touching on icons here, but the silence of aung san suu kyi, the nobel peace prize winner and current foreign minister, is deafening! ethnic cleansing, murder, this lost generation, the rapes, the prostitution... his government must understand that we will not let up in the pressure.
madam president, i would like to say to mr van der camp that that was a very interesting speech for next plenary but mr van der camp, let me just give you the arguments why our group will oppose the mandate, and it has nothing to do with the work of the people in the committee on transport and tourism – mr van der camp and the other shadow rapporteurs. it has to do with a very important argument on democracy. this is about the working conditions of more than one and a half million truckers in our europe and the committee on employment and social affairs has had a vote as well and it was a different vote. so it is important that we can express ourselves as a plenary, all together, and that is why we will oppose this mandate. (applause)
the s&d group therefore calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the ebola outbreak in the democratic republic of congo is officially considered to have been contained within the last few days. the world health organization declared four days ago that the outbreak in the democratic republic of congo is over. even if it takes 43 days to declare the outbreak eradicated, i think it would be important, in this house, with the presence of the high representative, to speak of course about the situation of this epidemic, but to extend the debate to the general situation in the democratic republic of congo. it would allow us not to waste time in debate and to be able to speak about a country which is very dear to us here. this is a proposal which can be added to what mr goerens had proposed. let's talk about the ebola epidemic, but since we're at the end of this epidemic, maybe we should talk about the more general situation in the democratic republic of congo.
for the greens/efa group mr president, in 1985, the first film in the terminator series showed robots attacking human beings. meanwhile, reality has caught up with fiction, and what we're shown in these movies is becoming more and more technologically feasible. the question of autonomous weapons, or more brutally, killer robots, is more relevant than ever. the united nations has decided to take up the matter and a major conference will be held at the end of august. this parliament has already, on several occasions, taken up the subject of arms-le-body and has spoken with a large majority in favour of a ban on this type of weapon. i think it is appropriate that, at the last plenary session before the united nations conference, we should have the opportunity to debate and adopt a resolution confirming the position of this parliament, so that the representatives of the european union who will be sitting at that conference can echo that position.
the report was drawn up by the rapporteur for an opinion for imco. mr president, i was rapporteur for an opinion in imco and i wanted to emphasize the importance of a defence industry for the internal market. we see too often that each member state is working on its own projects, whereas it would be much more efficient to work with other companies to produce new products from other member states. we see the successes in the research programmes, such as horizon 2020, the future horizon europe, where cooperation is at the heart, and that should also be possible in defence. i'll make sure the budget isn't cut from the civil investigation. this should continue to be the rule in the new programmes beyond 2020. i am pleased to see that the door is being opened to cooperation with companies from countries outside the european union, because we must also involve our foreign partners in these programmes when it comes to the strategic importance.
president, measuring is knowing. that is certainly true in agriculture. if we are to guide the common agricultural policy, we need accurate data. how else can we know exactly what is happening in our rural areas and what the impact of climate change, among other things, is, as well as the changing social climate in rural areas? through years of meticulous data collection, we can begin to better identify trends, but also to predict trends. one of the clear trends is, of course, the rapid decline in the number of farmers, which is a real concern to me. the new cap must take measures to provide a supportive solution to this. colleagues, although data collection in the agricultural sector has been going on since 1966, i do not need to tell you that in 2018 this data is needed even more than ever. the modernisation of the data collection system provided for in this legislation is therefore, in my view, a much-needed step. in conclusion, i would like to stress one more thing. in measuring various rural indicators, it has recently been noted that rural communities' internet connections are not always optimal. however, the presence of high-quality and fast internet is absolutely necessary, not only to allow people to have a social digital life, but also to be able to do, for example, precision agriculture. i hope to see real improvements here in the near future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i say to ms trebesius: i am guilty. i am in favour of the united states of europe. i think can only be to make from the european union a good federal state, a perfect union; that should be a goal for everybody. chancellor, you have talked a lot about migration, and you have said your first priority is to be tougher on illegal migration. but i have to tell you one thing, being president of the european council is a little bit different than being chancellor of austria. you have not only to please who you think are your voters in austria. what you do as a council president is something completely different. you have to build bridges, you have to make compromises, and you have to find difficult compromises. and from time to time, i have to tell you, it will not be pleasant. there will be unpopular compromises that you have to make on a lot of things. there is brexit, the multiannual financial framework; there is a lot you did not talk about. that is a little bit strange as reform of the eurozone is a priority in the coming months and there is naturally also migration, so i will not talk to you now about all these fights. on brexit we are waiting for the white paper of the british government after the chequers meeting. i hope that the match between england and colombia will be less violent than the meeting in chequers, but we will see this in the coming days. on friday, there is the eurozone reform. the council did nothing about that. they pushed all the problems until the end of the year. my question to you is: what are going to do? what initiative are you going to take on this? and then there is the so-called migration crisis, and i say ‘so-called’ because i don’t think it is a real migration crisis which we are living through in europe at the moment; it is a political crisis on the back of migrants. that is the reality. look at the figures before spreading fear into the populations and public opinion. there were more than one million crossings in the mediterranean in 2015. that fell to 360 000 – still too many – in 2016. in 2017, 170 000 and now in the first six months of the year, 45 000 crossings in the mediterranean, which is 0.07% of entire migration flows worldwide: 68 million in all. so what are we talking about? in my opinion we are not talking about a sudden influx of people crossing the mediterranean. we are talking about a political decision, an opportunistic decision of one minister of the interior in italy, mr salvini, who created this problem that we now have on our plate. that is happening, and mr salvini has a very simple opinion: he says, ‘not in italy, put them in germany, put them in austria put them in hungary maybe’. and mr orbán, who is a friend of mr salvini’s, says: ‘no, not in hungary, we will put them in italy or in germany or why not in austria’ and then your friend, mr seehofer, has another opinion and says ‘no, not in germany, send them back to italy or eventually to hungary and maybe to your country, austria’ and you are saying – and have already – you don’t want them in austria. you want them to stay in italy or in germany or to send them to hungary. you see what the problem is, ms chancellor. the problem in europe is that the only consensus that the council and the prime ministers and you and your friends can agree today is: ‘not in my back yard’. that is the only consensus that you are capable of for the moment, and that is the scandal of europe. don’t talk about migrants. we are talking about a political crisis on the back of migrants, and what i am asking you is not only to be tough on migration or illegal migration. you have to be tough on illegal migration but when an asylum seeker is coming from syria when he enters the european union, he is illegal before he asks for asylum. what i am asking you is to play the european card, as austria has always done. and the european card is a real european border and coast guard. back the proposals of the commission before the end of the year with the council. secondly, make an agreement on dublin. the parliaments have a position. the council has no position for the moment. thirdly, create european reception centres where people can ask for asylum inside or outside europe, i don’t care, what is important is that they are not falling into the hands of the smugglers and the criminal gangs. finally, a legal system of economic migration, which we absolutely need. in conclusion, chancellor, you can count on the support of all this parliament. not for big speeches against migration but for european solutions on migration.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the chancellor has said that the austrian presidency wants a europe that protects. we couldn’t agree more, mr chancellor. in an uncertain world, the first thing that most of our citizens want is protection. let’s take a look at what they say when we ask them and i have here the report commissioned by parliament seeking the opinion of all people in europe. so, what do they say? the first thing they want to be protected from is terrorist attacks. secondly, they want their jobs to be protected. thirdly, they want to be protected from poverty and social exclusion. even though the survey was conducted in the immediate aftermath of the biggest wave of arrivals in europe, being protected from uncontrolled migration only comes fourth, right before being protected from climate change. when it comes to prioritising european action, all citizens say first work on tackling poverty and social exclusion and then work on fighting terrorism. i am saying that because your presidency has decided to conflate security with migration and make this its top priority, as if every migrant or asylum seeker were a potential criminal or terrorist, which would then justify keeping him or her away from the eu’s territory. and you do that, when in actual terms, as guy verhofstadt just said, the arrivals on our shores have dramatically dropped. make no mistake about it though, taking into account the dire situation of so many people in the areas surrounding europe, the asylum and migration challenge will not fade away anytime soon. it is one that does not lend itself to simplistic solutions, but one that europe can meet while fully respecting its core values. so why is it, mr chancellor, that in chorus with too many other european heads of state and government, you choose to focus public attention on an issue that does not rank highest in our citizens’ minds and whose size makes it manageable, if only member states would show solidarity with one another? the simpler explanation, mr chancellor, is that you are seeking a diversion by riding on fears that you and your friends are fanning. you probably want to draw the attention of the people away from what you want to do at home – extending the working day to 12 hours, reducing social benefits to people based on nationality, or contradicting the banter of your coalition partner by ratifying the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta), which is a very multinational-friendly free trade deal. so the picture becomes clear. you want a europe that protects, yes, but that protects those who wield economic power, not the citizens. this is evidenced by the report that we have launched which highlights how your country still allows wealthy austrian citizens to park their money away in liechtenstein, a country that sells passports to dubious individuals or shows little enthusiasm in fighting money laundering. after the financial crisis, mr chancellor, anger and anxiety grew in our society. we could, and we should, respond by changing our economic and social policies in order for them to serve the people. instead, you and your friends choose to double down on neo—liberal policies and diverted the anger and anxiety towards very convenient scapegoats – the migrants. so i’m asking you, mr kurz, and also you, mr weber, is this the new normal at the european people’s party? over the last few months we have seen your member parties increasingly adopting the ideas and rhetoric of the far-right, such as in austria, in bavaria or in france. going together to the polls, like in italy, governing with it, such as in austria and, to crown it all, your member in hungary is hailed by the entire far—right international as a hero. you claim to be doing all this to prevent the expansion of far—right parties. the reality is that by legitimising their ideas you accelerate their diffusion in society and worse, you are making them official policy. is this still the party of the fathers of europe, who decided to launch the european project to cure our continent forever of the plague of nationalism and hatred? i have never been – and these are my last words, mr president – i have never been scared of the extreme right, but when the ideas of the extreme right contaminate the parties that were at the heart of european democracy, we are all in danger.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: the presidency is thus demonstrating that it is focusing on the subject on which the citizens expect europe to act. nothing more, nothing less. i'm not going to do anything. we in the n-va can only applaud that. a presidency that dares to mention problems such as security and migration. to my surprise, many people think we have no problem with that. but also a presidency that dares to think out of the box because the challenges we face today require it. no unisono whore communication. we must have the courage to evaluate critically in order to improve. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. thank you and good luck.
president of the commission. the commission is not i would like to comment on a subject which has been raised here on several occasions, and that is the subject of subsidiarity. this is one of the main concerns of the austrian presidency and of the chancellor herself. i would like to point out that we have set up a working group under the chairmanship of first vice-president frans timmermans. an austrian member of parliament is also involved in this work. i would like to see this work completed quickly, and then we will deal with the content of the guidelines, the recommendations and the recommendations of this commission, this working group, under austrian leadership. i think this is an important issue. the commission has done a lot in this respect. this commission proposes on average 20 to 23 legislative proposals and initiatives per year. the previous commissions had proposed 120, 130 initiatives. no one really notices that we are doing less because we do not need more europe, but a better europe. we have withdrawn 51 bills and slimmed down 151 of them. i ask that this be noted. and i object to mrs. trebesius lying all the time. i know! i don't know what party you belong to. i know what faction you're in, and you shouldn't be doing that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you will not find in my entire career, except for the first 20 years, any indication that i was for a united states of europe, because i am against the idea that the european union is on the road to nationalisation. that is not what the people of europe want. and i don't want to be. so please, use those slogans, because i will question you every time you say that again, and it's not true.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. manfred weber and othmar karas said: let us work together to make progress! this is precisely the aim of the austrian presidency. we want to try to bring to the table many of the issues that have been raised today, together with you in parliament, together with the commission and, of course, together with the council. there's plenty to do. i would ask you to understand that in five minutes i cannot deal with every subject that has just been raised. but i think that many issues have been raised where we need to make progress as the european union. a europe which protects does not simply mean maintaining internal security, order and stability. it is also a matter of social security, it is a matter of maintaining competitiveness so that we can remain competitive in a changing world. and as i mentioned in my opening remarks, this does not end at our external borders, but security and stability can only come from engagement beyond our borders. the broad debate that has taken place here also reflects the range of opinions that exists among the european population. i think it is a good thing that there is such a lively debate in the european parliament. i hope, however - and i believe that mr verhofstadt has said this - that there is also the necessary willingness to compromise when it comes to finding common solutions. we will only make progress as the european union if we also have the size to enable the council, the commission and parliament to work together and if we are also prepared to reach consensus across the political groups. but i am very optimistic, because i believe that in reality there is much, much more in the european union that unites us than anything that could ever separate us. i think you have made a very broad statement here today on a wide range of subjects. but i think it's important that we're all honest with each other on the issue of migration. i would like to address what mr bullmann said. you mentioned that austria would now have to take national measures, and you also criticised what i had proposed as a plan for our presidency. i would like to make just three points because they seem important to me. firstly, what i have proposed as president and what we are planning to do over the next six months is exactly what the european council unanimously decided last week. so if you accuse me of wanting to work out what the european council has decided, you can do that. but please don't make the mistake of denying that it was a unanimous decision. this shows that there is a common line here, a turnaround at european level. and i think that's very positive. secondly, the keyword national measures. if i am correctly informed, the social democracy is part of the german government. we do not yet know the german government's position, because i believe that there is only an agreement between the cdu and the csu and that there has not yet been a vote with the spd. we expect the german government to clarify this matter soon. if this is handled as it is currently announced, then it is germany that is setting national measures here and other countries such as austria will of course react accordingly. the third point is very important to me: i want to make a promise today as someone who grew up with the europe without frontiers inward. i promise you that as the austrian presidency we will do everything in our power to ensure that in the long term there is once again a europe without internal frontiers. (applause from the centre) i can't promise you how fast this will go. i cannot tell you whether there will be national measures first, as germany has announced. but what i can promise you is that we will fight to ensure that in the medium to long term europe without internal borders with proper external borders is once again a matter of course. and i'm also optimistic that we can do that together, if we want to. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am a friend of debate, of discourse, of political discussion. but i think it's important that the discourse is always respectful and at eye level. i sometimes feel that in the european union we are going down a negative spiral. i feel that too often the council complains about the commission, parliament berates the council, and that this does not really help us because it is more like handing over responsibility than working together on the matter. and i feel that there is far too much division among the member states, that one complains about the other, the north about the south, the west about the east and vice versa. i believe, rather, in a common europe, a europe of cooperation and a europe in which there are no first- and second-class member states. i am reminded again and again of a discussion i had in germany, where i was invited to be a guest, and then someone in the room said: 'well, he still cannot imagine living in a europe where switzerland and the united kingdom are not members but countries like hungary and romania are.' i think i was the only one in the room who felt bad about that at the time, because i thought, how would romanians or hungarians in this room feel now? i believe that this experience is precisely the europe we do not want. we need a europe of cooperation, we need a europe where we can discuss on equal terms, even if there are different nationalities and factions, and we need a europe which we want to move forward together. we, as the austrian presidency, would like to make our contribution here, if we can. i hope to have a good cooperation with you as the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
chancellor kurz wants to make europe stronger during the austrian eu presidency: a safer europe, with a stronger economy and also an eu that takes its international responsibilities. kurz wants to increase cooperation with africa. these are all priorities which we fully support. kurz also wants to work towards greater tax justice: the big internet companies have to pay their taxes correctly like everyone else. that's good news, too. kurz is young and new, but is already a bridge-builder, able to bridge the gap with some in central and eastern europe. he is right to insist on a europe which protects, both within and without. he has made excellent use of the austrian presidency of the eu.
in writing. i have three things from your speech that i remember. you want to close the european borders; stability and security in neighbouring countries; and more cooperation with africa. i wonder how you're going to solve the puzzle. to close europe's borders, the european council decided to set up disembarkment platforms in africa. but you have not consulted any country in advance. and there 's more . the african union is opposed to the principle. can you tell me how you intend to close the borders with diplomatic mishaps like this? or how do you fill in "african cooperation"? for now, this looks like african imposition. on top of that, you want stability and security in the neighboring countries. i do not need to tell you that the actions to stop migration from libya have added fuel to the fire on the ground. ms. mogherini has taken up the glove and set up a rescue operation with niger. only now it appears that our member states are again delaying the resettlement of refugees from niger, which threatens to undermine the whole operation. many countries of origin or transit are fragile. intervening there without real ambition for resettlement is not a solution but a recipe for new instability.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have to tell you that i agree with mr fitto. it doesn’t happen all the time, but i agree 100% with the assessment he has made. you were not there, mr tusk, but while we were preparing for the european council in this house here three weeks ago, i proposed to the president to examine whether it was not necessary for our parliament to go to court, because there is a clear failure to act by the council, especially on the dublin file. i don’t say this in a wild way; it is based on facts. if you look at the council conclusions, what are they saying? have you liberated additional money, 2019-2020, to start with the border and coast guard? will you do that? additional money to the 2019-2020 money? otherwise, we cannot accelerate the border and coast guard from 2027 to 2020. have you agreed on a new dublin asylum system? where is the position of the council? we have had our position since november, and we are still waiting for the position of the council. there is not even a word on this. we are going to work further on this – that is the only thing you can read from the conclusions. the same on these reception centres. what we have in the conclusion is that we are going to ‘examine’ it. in european language, that means it is going to take a while. reception centres of disembarkment platforms – you are going to examine them while you all have different points of view. some are in favour of in europe; others say no, out of europe; some are saying that it has to be closed, while others are saying they should be open centres. you have the experience in france where there is a centre like that in chartres, which is working very well. these people who come to the centre in chartres can ask for asylum, and when this asylum is agreed on they will be transferred to france. that is happening now. why do you examine it? why do you not decide on it? the same on legal migration, legal economic migration. i think there is no possible solution unless we also have an agreement on legal economic migration in this package. where is the decision of the council? i don’t think that the deal in germany between the cdu and the csu now will solve the problem. on the contrary, what you risk is the reinstatement of national border controls, killing schengen. that is what is already happening with austria, because austria is now considering – they have announced it in government circles today – closing the brenner pass because of this internal german deal, so that is what is happening today. and then you come here and say ‘no, no, no...’. i can tell you that the problem is a political problem; it is not migration. it is exactly the same, and mr bullmann is 100% right when he says that that isn’t going forward either in the eurozone reform. you have a problem in the council. i do not know what to do. you have to block them during the holidays for three or four days. you come out one day and you say ‘here we have a text’. in the past it was different. i remember once, together with jean-claude juncker, at a summit in nice – do you remember that? – we needed to reform the treaty, and it took four days and four nights before we got an agreement, at 4.00 in the morning. but we got an agreement. and here, after one day you come out and say ‘we have a text; it is very general; we are going to examine this, maybe we are going to do that’. that is not the way. put them together. maybe, this holiday, put them all together on your disembarkment platform somewhere in the mediterranean, these 27 member states and heads of government, and make a deal. push for it, lock them in a room; that is the only way they will understand, otherwise we will continue and continue. and the eurozone reform is exactly the same. we say we have made progress. progress? you name the progress. i am sorry, jean-claude, but i am not in agreement with you on the so-called ‘backstop’. it is a fake backstop. it is a credit line, a credit line that will be given to this resolution by the esm. i asked you, mr tusk, if you engaged this credit line, if the esm engaged this credit line, will there be an approval of the deutsche bundestag – yes or no? in my opinion, yes. and if it is yes, it is not a backstop; it is a fake backstop. that is the reality. a backstop is automatic. a backstop is not something that has been approved in i don’t know how many parliaments or how many governments of a member states. don’t take it personally; my attack is not on you, it is on what you represent: the european council. you have said a few times with a lot of courage these past few weeks, after everything that happened with trump, that we are on our own – and i think that is right. we are on our own, but the problem is that we are in fact not capable of acting on our own – and that problem you have to solve, mr tusk. (applause)
i would like to address my former prime minister, guy verhofstadt, who, as he always does, gave me the impression that he was inviting all illegal immigrants from europe to flanders, with a strong gesture of his arms towards the council. i 'll do it in the language he always uses here himself: wake up, open your eyes, mr. verhofstadt. i'm not going to lie to you. what has happened and what is the conclusion of your council, of this european council, is that your europe, your european union, your centralised european union is in disarray. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure. that era is slowly but surely passing. there is one reality that is hidden behind all these orwellian terms about disembarkation platforms and the like, one reality that is out in the open and that is that a new european union is coming with populists, as you always denigrate them. people who listen to the people and who bring to this house and to the council governments and parties who, on the basis of listening to what the people want, will impose on europe a much stricter immigration policy than you have known so far. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" question. what is it? mr annemans, i have the impression that here in europe you still think that guy verhofstadt is prime minister. just so we 're clear , he wasn't at the council table this weekend. you are continuing in this european parliament with the hate speech, the calls for fear, which your party has been making in belgium for years. you're gonna take this slow. i have one specific question for you. why are you against these disembarkation platforms? why do you want to leave power in the hands of the smugglers? why do you continue to advocate that little children drown in those seas every week?
"blue card" is the answer. mrs vautmans, it is very sweet of you to defend mr verhofstadt, but i have only heard him here today pleading for bringing more immigrants to europe. if he had been in the council, he would have met with them for four days and reached an agreement. no, i can't accept it. the fact that parties from our group are in power in italy and austria does not mean that they are isolated. we are not isolated. there are also governments and groups coming up in other countries which are going to do things differently from what mr verhofstadt and the whole clique here have done.
mr president, what have we all heard here in the european parliament? mr. verhofstadt says , " i 'm not going to be a judge . there is no migration crisis. mr. lamberts from ecolo says: migration, people are not waking up to it, it's not a top priority. i think they have missed the election results, the results in italy, in austria, in germany, in the netherlands and in france. the atmosphere in this parliament is still: we'll solve the crisis by spreading more migrants. if we say: no, we must first work on strengthening our external borders, then the answer is: no. yes, we're going to do that with a european coast and border guard. but to do what? that is the essential question: to do what? we also want a strong coastguard, but one that can break up human smugglers. a coast guard that's gonna rescue people and bring them back so we can stop illegal migration. they want a coastguard that will simply bring more boats to the european union without a ceiling. that will only increase the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, it will not reduce it. as long as the european parliament fails to face this reality, we will always be in pursuit of the facts.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me first be very glad that we have this discussion and a plenary vote tomorrow. it’s about democracy; it’s not about one committee versus another committee. second, let me outline why that is so important: it is important for the work of the internal market, but more so for the protection of our people working in that sector. that brings me to the driving and rest time: i think it’s extremely important that we have the two—week reference – and i thank the rapporteur for going along with our group on that. but also make sure that their weekend rest is outside of the cabin, mr van de camp – that is extremely important. second, on the posting, ms kyllönen, we cannot follow your line and leave five million eu workers out of the posting. i think people in this sector are equal people who deserve protection as well. and last, let me thank ismail ertug, who found a very good compromise on the cabotage, and i also thank our former rapporteur, mr jens nilsson, who did a wonderful job on that as well.
mr president, what is the subject of this dossier? it is essentially a question of two things. it is about road safety and it is about tackling social dumping. these two things go hand in hand, of course. it is a good thing that we are introducing mandatory and accelerated introduction of smart tachographs in international transport and that we are doing the same for delivery vans to close the back doors. on the other hand, it is our duty to put an end - as mr christensen has just said - to the social ills in the transport sector. truck drivers also have rights and deserve our full respect for the work they do. they have the right to spend a weekend at home or in a decent hotel instead of in some cheap parking lot. today, this is already the case in belgium, germany and other member states. we really don't want that arrangement to be undermined. a six-by-six-foot cabin is not the ideal place to spend a weekend. these measures are essential from a social point of view and also from the point of view of road safety.
madam president, since 1976, the democratic republic of congo (drc) has experienced several outbreaks of ebola virus, which were more or less managed with peaks of infection in the 1970s, but much less so today. a total of 1,000 people died in the various waves of contamination over 40 years. on 17 may, after the case was identified in mbandaka, a city of one million people, the alert was raised again, and the world health organization (who) responded directly by launching an experimental vaccination campaign on high-risk populations, as well as information and isolation campaigns. today, who and the government in the drc acknowledge that the outbreak is contained. on that basis, i have asked that we extend our debate this evening to the general situation in the democratic republic of the congo. if the ebola virus has killed a thousand congolese since 1976, the war in that country since 1994 has killed more than six million congolese, displaced thousands of them who still live in camps, mutilated and raped young girls. while the drc is able to stop the ebola virus, it clearly lacks the will and ability to protect its people. that is why i have asked for a broader discussion on the situation in this country on the eve of an electoral process and where everything suggests that the mess is organized by the government. i refer to the speech by mr mugwebe, the sakharov prize winner of this assembly, who said that the elections would not be credible. he also said that the congolese people live in modern slavery, a government of blood and guts that has no plan or vision. living, working, eating to the full, being free are rights in a country as rich as the drc. yet, massacres, rapes, and massive habitat destruction are the daily lot of this population. all the institutions in the drc are now illegitimate, whether it is the provincial assembly, the national assembly, the senate, the presidency, and this does not seem to move anyone - even here in this assembly - because they will have to organize the elections so-called independently. so, yes, we are concerned about ebola, but i would say that the general situation in the congo should be of greater concern.
i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that all member states incorporate into their legislation the prohibition of criminal prosecution of ngos operating in the mediterranean. can we please just be serious for a second? we must face the fact that these ngos are being used by human traffickers, which means that the latter can be kept out of the way. the aquarius, for example, bypassed all the safe harbors in tunisia in an attempt to disembark in europe. so doctors without borders did everything it could to bring african fortune seekers to europe. two days ago, the spanish ngo open arms tried to sabotage a libyan coast guard rescue operation. two other ngos did the same thing under false flag a week earlier. i ask you: what the hell are they doing? for us, the emphasis should be on saving people from drowning. the only way to achieve that is to stop the lucrative business of human trafficking. the eu should also ensure that illegal entry of asylum seekers into the eu no longer automatically gives them a right of residence. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as the prime minister can hear, this is a real parliament. i have spoken about poland in this plenary so many times that today i am going concentrate more on the future of the european union. yesterday, mr morawiecki, in a debate with your compatriot donald tusk, i said that more and more people are realising that, when we talk about the future of the european union, a new world order is emerging. in this new world order, europe is on its own more and more. let’s recognise that. there is putin, who is on a warpath; there is the chinese leader who has nominated himself as emperor for life; and there is trump, who is openly questioning the transatlantic relationship and, by doing so – let us recognise it, and i think you can also recognise it – is putting the security of the european continent at risk. that is the main reason – and although you didn’t go into that proposal, i think you can agree with it – why we need a european defence community, as soon as possible. and let there be no misunderstanding, prime minister, we need it not as a body to compete with nato but as a european pillar of nato, to strengthen nato, and also to give europeans the possibility of acting on their own. however, we should know that the european defence community means much more than being in favour of simply pooling a number of military budgets, a number of tanks or a number of aircraft. a european defence community is primarily about defending european territory and defending european interests with european lives. that means that a european defence community, as such, can only work on one condition, namely that we share the same european values, the same european democratic principles, the same rule of law, and the same rules of the game that are fundamental in our society. only then can such a defence community work in the future and defend our interests. so the future of the european union, prime minister – and this is my message to you – is more than an internal market, more than a single currency, and more even than the free movement of people. let me put it very bluntly: it is a community of values, and i have to tell you openly that putting judges under political control plays no part in these values. you have to know that. (applause)that is not a question of tradition, if i may say so. i like traditions, but it is not a question of tradition. it is a question of principles and of our common community. prime minister, do not misunderstand me: reform of the judiciary is certainly a legitimate goal, but forcing judges to retire and delivering them to the will and the whim of the governing majority can never be part of such a reform. over the past three years, the polish government has systematically liquidated democratic checks and balances. it was not this parliament but rather the venice commission which said, loudly and clearly, that your reforms – and i am now quoting the venice commission, of which poland is a part – ‘bore a striking resemblance with the institutions which existed in the soviet union and its satellites’. i think that what they said sums it all up. so, instead of what is happening now – rejecting two infringement procedures, ignoring the verdicts of the european court of justice – i use this occasion, prime minister, to appeal to you personally. you were a youngster who engaged with solidarnosc. you were part of the team which directly negotiated the accession of poland to the european union. so i ask you personally: turn the wheel, and bring poland back into the family of democratic nations, away from the illusion of so—called ‘illiberal states’, and bring poland back into the centre of european politics again, instead of letting it linger at the fringes. this dream of an ‘intermarium’, the 12 central and eastern european countries from the baltic to the black sea working together, is a mirage. it is an illusion. even, germany, prime minister, is a small nation today, although many germans may not recognise it. in a world of empires – russia, china – it is only together that we can do it, and i have to tell you it is a big mistake to think we can divide our union into regional clusters. to conclude, i believe that division in europe – as is now to some extent the case, let’s be honest – is welcomed by only one man, one autocrat, vladimir putin. poland knows better than any other country what the fate of our continent is if the tsar of russia or the comrade in the soviet union is running the game in europe. don’t play it. (applause)
mr president, thank you for allowing me to speak on a point of order. i would like to point out that the plenary of the parliament has on several occasions expressed its opinion on how to reform the arrangements for the use of the general expenses allowance by members. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) and that the commission should be given the task of developing a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah). the bureau, which you chair, has decided to take liberties, and important liberties (let me finish) in relation to the majority position adopted by this plenary. so we ask you, as the person in charge of the bureau, to reconsider the matter, and if not, we ask the conference of presidents to take up the matter.
for the greens/efa group mr president, eight years: it has been eight years since greece was placed under financial assistance by the european union. officially, the country is now out of the aid package, growth is back, tourism is back, the trade balance is in balance, everything is fine, except that for us, these eight years seem like an outrageous waste. the greek socialist and conservative parties have for decades allowed public deficits to run, in particular by neglecting to collect taxes from their privileged clientele. nor did they try to modernise the country's economy. their responsibility for the disaster is overwhelming. but they were not alone, because if greece was able to borrow beyond reason, it was because banks, and not only greek banks, far from it, lent to greece beyond reason. and it is the people of the country who ultimately pay the price for this double irresponsibility. from the outset, the successive assistance plans had the sole objective of protecting the financial interests of the creditors, i.e. the banks. once again, european taxpayers have come to their rescue. worse, the remedy inflicted on the country is economic nonsense. greece is expected to have a substantial primary surplus in the coming decades, which even the international monetary fund considers to be totally impossible. this denial of reality by the european creditors has very direct consequences. the greek people are suffering, they are dying. the suicide rate has increased by 35% in the country since 2008, 20% of greeks are in extreme poverty and more than 400,000 greeks have left the country for lack of prospects. the desperation of the population is such that even the neo-nazi far right has returned to parliament. meanwhile, the country's endemic ills of underinvestment, patronage and tax laxity towards the richest remain. so what should we have done? first, to make the creditors share the responsibility by cancelling, as the imf wanted, a substantial part of their claims. secondly, mr moscovici, we must make european aid conditional from the outset, not after eight years, on a fair contribution from the richest and on the establishment of a tax administration worthy of the name. the european union should have put its investment tools at the service of the country's energy transition in such a way as to enable greece to be a net exporter of electricity from renewable sources. it could also have borne the costs of hosting refugees, of whom we know that greece is taking in more than its fair share. if nothing can undo the enormous human damage suffered by greece, it is not too late for the european union to change course and put justice and economic common sense back at the centre of the relationship that links it to the cradle of democracy.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). that fuse has now been removed thanks to tough, difficult reforms by greece. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. that's a good thing. the fuse is out, but the powder keg is still there. that'll have to be the next step. the fuse is out, but now we have to get the powder out of that gunpowder barrel, so that the eurozone becomes more stable. because let's not get this wrong: greece, that was a manageable crisis. if a larger member state were to get into trouble, we would see things differently. that is why some say there should be a eurozone budget: to absorb shocks. we know where that leads: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's not the answer. let's go with the other solution. let us strengthen accountability, reintroduce and enforce the no-bailout clause, opt for clear budgetary rules that we finally make enforceable. - please, please.
the greek economy is growing, competitiveness has returned and exports are increasing. the ship avoids the collision course and actually has a little wind in its sails. the signals are positive, but we're not there yet. the greeks have weathered a huge storm. europe must continue to guide them to ensure that the growth rates it is now achieving are sustained. economic growth, ladies and gentlemen, and i want to stress this very seriously, must also be inclusive growth. the greeks have had to make huge cuts, including in their pensions and social security. although there were few other options from a macroeconomic point of view, we really have to admit that this has been a very difficult period for the average greek. the worst thing is that it is mainly the young people, the generation that has never been able to reap the benefits, who will have to bear the heaviest burdens, also in the future. the positive thing is that the greek government now seems to have its budget in order, including a primary surplus. this should allow the debt to evolve to a viable level in the long term. the control of the greek debt is, in my view, of paramount importance. debt restructuring should not be taboo. the debate must be held on this, even if it can never be a full pardon. but it is equally important that in the long term all the promises made are actually fulfilled. whoever is in charge in athens next year, the european finance ministers must continue to monitor the situation. the structural reforms agreed on must be implemented. i am thinking specifically of the energy sector, reforms of the administration and the fight against tax evasion. the situation in greece is so special that enhanced surveillance is the best option at the moment. i would also like to stress one last point. it is indeed possible for a country to emerge from a deep financial, economic crisis without massive devaluations of its currency. the greek example is a great blow to anyone who claims otherwise.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, commissioner, i would like to start by congratulating our colleague kinga gál on the outstanding work we have had the opportunity to do with her. the proposal we are discussing today is important because it concerns potentially 1.4 billion citizens from some 60 countries who are exempt from the visa requirement, and it actually concerns 30 to 40 million people who enter the territory of the european union every year. the proposed system is simple: any third country national who is exempt from the visa requirement will have to obtain prior authorisation before entering the union's borders. firstly, is such a measure necessary? we think it is. of the 30 to 40 million people who wish to enter the union each year, some may pose a real risk to internal security, a migratory risk or a risk to public health through the spread of epidemics. etias is therefore a plus for internal security, for border control, because it allows potential risks to be identified in time. it is also a plus for the travellers themselves. do we know that there are currently nearly 300 000 people who are turned back at the union's borders every year, even though they have already paid for their journey? etias will significantly reduce this number. secondly, is this measure bureaucratically untenable? obviously not. travellers can simply apply online by filling in a standard form and 95% of applicants will receive a positive response within minutes. thirdly, is this measure excessively costly for travellers? that is debatable, but 7 euros per person for a permit that will be valid for 3 years does not seem excessive to us. for comparison, the price of a visa is 60 euros. and finally - and the commissioner has stressed this - this measure respects fundamental rights. personal data are kept only for the duration of the authorisation. no sensitive questions are allowed. an ethics committee is set up to verify that risk indicators are necessary and proportionate and a right of appeal against a refusal decision is introduced. for all these reasons, my group will vote strongly in favour of the etias project.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, i am glad that tomorrow we are voting on the ethias dossier, after months of hard work. it was identified in a study, together with the entry/exit system, as an important missing link in european border control. this system will hopefully screen foreigners who do not need a visa to come to europe in advance from 2021. an automated search of european and international databases should provide the security services with a complete picture. the schengen information system will no longer allow anyone to travel to the schengen countries unnoticed. but the system is more than just consulting databases. it also tries to predict risk with clever algorithms and statistics. good news for the taxpayer: the system is self-sufficient, as applicants pay eur 7 for their electronic application. in most cases, applicants receive a decision within ten minutes. the system is fully automated and only checks the application manually in the event of possible identity confusion or a hit. a permit is valid for three years. the system should support border guards who have to make the decision on the spot at the border whether to let someone in or not. ethias allows them to see if an admission has been delivered and if additional checks are needed. the n-va is very pleased that police services and immigration authorities will also be able to consult the system within their mandate. we are closing a major gap in the protection of our external borders. europe is getting a little safer.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by addressing mr viotti. very good work, mr viotti, your original text was an excellent one and you were clever enough to incorporate the best of the amendments from the political groups, including mine, which makes it even better. you know, i am well aware, the priorities of my group, but i want to remind you of them. first, we want, like you, more growth for more jobs, which means in concrete terms stimulating investment, in particular the 2020 programme, stimulating and supporting smes, in particular through the cosme programme, vigorously supporting - not enough has been said - the digitalisation of european industry, which will be a factor in its future. secondly, we want the budget to be used to awaken, as you said, mr viotti, and to encourage the european dream in the young people of our countries. that is why we have proposed and support the increase in the appropriations for erasmus+ and we are calling for a real boost for an erasmus pro, so dear to the president of our commission, which is dedicated to the mobility of young apprentices. third, we take our commitments to combat global warming seriously and say that climate spending must be increased in 2019 and 2020 if the union is to meet the target of 20% of the budget for the period 2014-2020. fourthly, we are fully aware of the scale of the problem posed by migration flows and the political pathologies that these flows are beginning to bring about. more resources are needed for border control, more resources for the establishment of genuine solidarity in the reception of refugees and more resources for an effective and fair return policy. but also, and above all, more means, because the future of europe is inseparable from the future of africa and africa needs, as you said, a genuine marshall plan to offer a real future to the 2.5 billion people that africa will have in 20 or 30 years' time. i shall end, mr president, with a personal request. i am campaigning for the creation of a financial mechanism in the union budget to help victims of terrorist attacks, and i thank mr viotti for including this in his report.
the eu-us privacy shield plays an important role in protecting the data of our european citizens. over 3,000 companies signed up to the privacy shield. these companies promised to protect the transfer of data between the eu and the us more strictly than the us law requires. i cannot therefore support the proposal to declare the s.h.i.e.l.d. inadequate and possibly suspend it. without the privacy shield, our european citizens and smes are worse off. they will be the ultimate victims of such a drastic proposal. citizens will have fewer rights of appeal because the ombudsman will disappear. europe will have a harder time checking that data transfers are being carried out correctly. there is therefore a greater risk of misuse of european data. the commission will also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to enable them to assess the impact of the measures. the us implementation of the shield can indeed be improved, but at present our citizens and smes are better off with the protection of the shield than without it.
mr president, most countries only tax within their territory, but the united states also does so on the basis of nationality. in other words, americans living abroad must file an annual u.s. tax return. some eu citizens were given american citizenship without asking for it, because they happened to be born in america. the facta legislation on automatic exchange of banking data with the us has led to them losing access to basic financial services in the eu, which cannot be the intention. every now and then, i get a request for help in my mailbox from these "coincidental americans". a letter was sent to the finance ministry, but unfortunately, no reply was received. that is why i ask the council: can you jointly take new diplomatic or legislative measures to safeguard the interests of eu citizens?
the european parliament has also called for the european union to take action to combat racism and xenophobia, and for the european union to take action to combat racism and xenophobia. there are about 80 million people with disabilities in the eu, but why do you see so few of them in political office? people with disabilities still do not have equal opportunities. in most member states, people with disabilities lose their right to vote when they are declared incapable of acting. fifteen eu member states automatically deny people with disabilities who are in guardianship their right to vote. there are also major obstacles to voting, as polling stations are often simply not accessible. only in 12 of the 28 member states are there accessibility requirements for all polling stations and where there are already accessibility conditions, these tend to focus only on physical accessibility. the information available to disabled people is also often very limited. election programmes, debates and meetings are still barely accessible. in a democratic society, everyone should have the right to make an informed choice. make no mistake, there is a strong legal framework that obliges the eu and the member states to ensure that people with disabilities can participate in political life on an equal basis with any other citizen. unfortunately, the reality is just disappointing. it is high time that this was finally changed.
author. mr president, the migration crisis that is shaking the eu to its foundations has several causes. burundi is among the top five african countries from which people make the difficult journey to europe. - why? - why? in the 2018 un happiness report, burundi is at the very bottom. eu resolutions and international reports on human rights violations and repression do not deter president nkurunziza. in the last few months, 500 burundians have been killed. since 2015, 400,000 people have been living in refugee camps. many dream of a life of freedom and security, and look to the north, to us. prisons are overflowing with human rights lawyers and journalists. if you are afraid of a critical voice, you degrade yourself into an authoritarian regime and slide into dictatorship. that's where migration comes from. i therefore expressly call for the release of the human rights activists germain rukuki and nestor nibitanga. nkurunziza is threatening to go down in history as a dictator unless he reinterprets his presidency under pressure from the international community and the eu.
author. mr president, since april 2015, burundi has been plunged into a serious humanitarian crisis, a human rights crisis, but also a political crisis. since the beginning of mr nkurunziza's third term, 593 people have been murdered and 600 000 people have become refugees or displaced inside or outside burundi. the new constitutional revision further strengthens this power and this authoritarian regime, which eliminates all political opponents and threatens its people on a daily basis. the un commission of inquiry has reported an increase in violence, arbitrary arrests, torture and hate speech. the list of journalists and political opponents in prison today is growing. we therefore call on the commission and the european external action service to continue to press the burundian government, as well as to maintain humanitarian aid to the internal and external populations of the country today, to work with the african union and the east african community to support this strategy, to demand the release of political prisoners, to demand prosecution and to prevent the funding of peacekeeping missions from funding the current government of burundi.
author. mr president, madam high representative, the nkurunziza regime is purely and simply a despotic regime, it is an abominable dictatorship. the constitutional referendum was neither free, transparent, independent and therefore certainly not democratic. blind and savage repression was applied to those who campaigned against constitutional reform. what is more serious is that pierre nkurunziza has absolutely not respected and has definitively abandoned the arusha agreements, which were led by mandela. so i hope that sooner or later he will have to answer to the criminal court. if he doesn't, then i don't know who will. i would like to ask you a very specific question on a specific matter concerning the way in which the european union is helping burundian refugees. an application for aid was submitted to enable the 500 to 600 burundian students to continue their studies in kigali with the support of the rwandan authorities. i am told that this aid was refused on the basis of an opinion from your representative in burundi, who said that it would anger mr nkurunziza. so i have asked you this question in a very specific way, it is embarrassing for me to ask you and i would like you to inform us about this question. the association maison shalom, founded by mrs marguerite barankitse, has received international awards for its humanitarian work, and is being denied aid for the 500 students and 70,000 burundian families who are refugees in rwanda.
mr president, that is what i expected from you. as i told you at the conference of presidents, if the facts are true, they are serious. we all have freedom of speech and we have the freedom to defend very different positions, which are - i hope - always based on facts, but in any case it is not the job of european civil servants to correct elected officials.
mr president, we will also have the debate on the situation in hungary on tuesday. we have learned that the austrian presidency of the european union has decided not to be present at this debate. i find that shocking. it is a question of respect for the fundamental values of the union and i cannot understand why the presidency of the council is not present to attend a debate whose aim, as we know, is precisely to initiate a procedure for which the council has a heavy responsibility. i do not understand why you would accept the absence of the council. i therefore urge you to make it clear to the austrian presidency that its place will be here in plenary.
mr president, if i may, mr viktor orbán is the prime minister of hungary, a country which is not currently - i think, unless i have miscalculated - holding the presidency of the council, so it is not about him. if he's here, it's because it's his country. what i expect is that the current presidency of the council, the austrian presidency, will assume its responsibilities. (applause from the left)
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, in the light of all your interventions, it seems we all agree that there is strong consensus about the fact that cohesion policy programmes have been of key importance for the economic and social progress of northern ireland. this also means that the implementation of programmes has been successful overall. in particular, the peace and interreg (european territorial cooperation) projects have demonstrated that cross-border cooperation is not an abstract concept: it is part of the daily life of citizens and it provides a space for people to come together and forge new partnerships. i liked very much what you said – that peace is very easy to destroy, but very hard to build, and we should not take it for granted. i thank you very much for all your interventions. we will have the opportunity later today during the debate on mr hetman’s report to discuss further the importance of ensuring strong cohesion in border regions, but we have here a first taste with northern ireland. it is undoubtedly one of the most telling examples of what cohesion policy has helped to achieve in border regions and beyond. there are countless examples where european funding has made a real difference to citizens, businesses, researchers, schools and local and regional authorities, and this report recognises that cohesion policy is one of the keys that can unlock our social, economic and cultural transformation. we must strive to defend it, and make every effort to further increase its effectiveness. this is why, as i said, the commission has proposed a balanced budget beyond 2020 which preserves cohesion policy as a policy which is both strong and for all the regions. i trust that the findings in your report will underpin your reflection on the future of cohesion policy and that you will give the negotiation of the legislative packages the highest priority so that a new legislative framework can be adopted a soon as possible. this is together with the negotiation of the mff. we will also respond to the question from mr nicholson on how this peace+ programme will be implemented in the future. let’s see how the brexit negotiations turn out. thank you once again for all your contributions.
in writing. it is clear that the comprehensive assistance programmes of european cohesion policy have borne fruit in northern ireland over the last decade. the european contribution of over eur 1 billion between 2014 and 2020 through various funds has so far provided, inter alia: sustained economic growth with the lowest unemployment rates in ten years; intensive support for the transformation of heavy industry into a more service-oriented economy; sustainable economic activities the eu also plays a key role in the peace talks between ireland and northern ireland. i believe that whatever the outcome of the brexit negotiations, european support for northern ireland must remain secure. northern ireland has been involved in the ambitious european project for a considerable period of time, and intensive cooperation - particularly on peace projects - should therefore be pursued in my view.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we all remember the year 2015, which was very painful, especially for our greek friends. in the context of the severe financial and economic crisis in greece, the country was no longer able to guarantee and guarantee the necessary co-financing shares for structural fund projects. there simply were no public funds. this was very concrete: many very important infrastructure projects in greece that had already started were at risk of being abandoned, and even worse: if these projects had not been completed within the 2007-2013 funding period, greece would have had to repay significant funds to the eu. so we were faced with an absolute worst-case scenario. the situation threatened to get even worse if these payments had to be made to the eu. it was therefore necessary to act very quickly, very wisely and very purposefully. the eu commission then proposed an amendment to the general regulation on the structural funds: in order to allow the country to use the available funds, the eu did not use the otherwise mandatory national co-financing rate in the previous funding period. this allowed greece to recover investment funds that would otherwise have simply been lost, as described above. in addition, greece was granted an advance of 1 billion for the new period of assistance, which has resulted in a sum of aid of some 2 billion euros, a sum which this parliament has had to monitor closely. as a special rapporteur, i was responsible for this monitoring on behalf of parliament and i went on several occasions to the greek side to speak to the important people there about these projects. we have repeatedly stressed in this context that this aid cannot be a blank cheque. they should be committed to the implementation and completion of these important projects, including in the context of the structural reforms that greece was urgently required to implement. that is what we wanted to ensure with this report. we have therefore carefully checked that the funds, these two billion euros from the eu, are being used and used in a meaningful way. and what is the result? the result is that greece has delivered. the country has drawn up and worked out a priority list of important projects. these were therefore completed in time and without any loss of funds. but not only that: this report also shows the impact that regional policy can have on regions and countries. we have seen that regional policy projects have helped to bring about tangible economic growth in the countryside, to combat high unemployment and to create prospects for people. this was a real success for greece. in times of massive crisis, the structural funds sometimes accounted for more than half of total public investment. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the greek authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support their claim that the measures in question constitute state aid. 131 priority projects were completed during the whole period of this assistance. these are clearly measurable figures. such figures should therefore give cause for reflection to critics of regional policy. regional policy has created a very concrete added value here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, the greek people have been helped effectively by these special measures. yes, these relief measures were a sign of solidarity. we in the committee agreed by a large majority that this was and is a promotion of the european idea and regional policy. in future, we must ensure that investments are sustainable, that jobs are safeguarded and that the quality of life is improved. in conclusion, i am convinced that the eu's decision to grant this special aid to greece was the right one. this is a pretty good illustration of what would have happened if we had not done this. but it is also clear that this aid measure is and remains an exceptional case. we must all ensure that this does not happen again, neither to greece nor to any other member state. i would like to thank the european commission and all the members of this house who have worked with me on this report and who have accepted these conclusions. thank you very much.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the house for this opportunity to look back. and, looking back at what we decided together three years ago, i think we can see there is overall unanimity on the fact that the revision of the common provisions regulation and the measures specific to greece have achieved their goal. they have allowed greece to address a severe liquidity problem that had occurred at that time, to inject cash and to relaunch investments in the real economy – and all this in a relatively short period of time. as a matter of fact, greece was the first state to reach a 100% absorption rate of available funds under the 2007—2013 programming period and it is also among the best-performing member states in terms of implementation in the 2014—2020 programming period. the good progress so far should be the driver for greece to continue, and increase even further, efforts to put in place a solid pipeline of new mature projects, which could generate expenditure and ensure a good performance in the years to come. the commission has been providing – and will continue to provide – hands—on technical support to the greek authorities in facilitating the management and implementation of the funds. more generally, i think the specific measures in favour of greece embody the very essence of cohesion policy, namely championing solidarity between member states so that regions can grow together, supporting growth enhancing investments to boost the economy. this is exactly what the commission has tried to reinforce in its post—2020 proposal for cohesion policy by securing a policy for all regions and by making sure that resources are efficiently channelled to where they are the most needed. on the other issue that was raised, i can assure you that we are standing by the greek people and the greek authorities – as well as the italians – and we are working together to integrate the migrants. that is another issue and i am at your disposal if you would like to talk about it separately, but it is not the subject of this debate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'll be very brief. i have two minutes, but i'm not gonna use them. i shall not comment on the comments made by the extreme left and the extreme right, because i do not share their views at all. in addition, their comments were not about the special measures or regional policy, so i do not have to comment on that. i'll summarize what's important, though. there was a situation. we have responded with a special measure, and with great success, with great measurable success. i would therefore like to thank all those who have helped to make this happen. we have not been talking in these difficult times for greece, we have not been criticizing for the sake of criticism, we have been acting. it was right and important. and so my thanks go to all those who have contributed to this: thank you very much!
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her draft report. it is very detailed and contains references to sign languages, the preferred language of deaf people in europe. our society is digitalising very rapidly and it is important to preserve our linguistic wealth. this is especially true for sign languages, which are threatened by the displacement of some smaller eu sign languages due to size and lack of financial resources. so we need to find ways to allow all deaf people in the eu to participate and benefit from the digital single market in their own sign language. that is why i fully support the report on language equality in the digital age. all languages, whether spoken or sign, must be treated equally.
mr president, deforestation, degradation and illegal exploitation of forests can also be motivated by trade-related factors. the european union's trade policy therefore has a key role to play. the european union is one of the main exporters and importers of goods. it is therefore able to act in accordance with international standards, contrary to what our colleague on the radical right has said. but it is more than a will, it is an obligation. the european court of justice has said in its opinion on singapore that the european union must integrate the objectives of preserving and improving the quality of the environment and sustainable resource management in its trade policy. so what do you do? first, to establish a regulatory framework to apply transparency obligations throughout the supply of forest products at risk; second, to strengthen the sustainable development chapter with sanction mechanisms. so, to fight climate change with voluntary measures is simply irresponsible. that is why i call on the sense of responsibility of each of us in this parliament not to support the separate votes of certain members of this parliament, who would be committing suicide in relation to respect for the climate.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, to prime minister tsipras, i should say ‘welcome back to the european parliament’. you know, four years ago, prime minister, you were a little afraid, i thought, to come here to this plenary, but today, unlike four years ago, you are not here to talk about the greek crisis: you have rather more solid ground under your feet, if i may put it like that. you want to talk, and you have talked, among other things, about our common future, the future of the european union. nevertheless, let me say something first on the greek crisis. i think that, whatever our opinion about what happened in recent years, we can all say it is good news that greece no longer depends on european aid. but, i have to tell you, i’m not as enthusiastic as the german minister of finance, mr scholz, who said the three greek rescue packages were a sign of solidarity. if this whole exercise was a sign of solidarity, then, as far as i am concerned, he can keep it. i am more of the opinion of mr dijsselbloem who said, a few weeks ago in his assessment of the greek crisis, that both sides were to blame: greece, on the one hand, for not reforming deeply enough or fast enough and, on the other hand, europe for focusing only on pure accountancy and austerity instead of asking for reform from day one. what didn’t happen were deep reforms in the greek economy and in greek society, and that has been, and still is, my problem with what happened in greece. so the key question now extends beyond this greek crisis, mr tsipras: is greece, and by extension the whole eurozone, ready for the next crisis? because we know that the next crisis will come. we don’t know when. if we knew, we would be rich, of course, but it will come. the end of the economic cycle is there and the question is: are we ready for that? well, my answer in this debate is ‘no’. europe is not ready for the next crisis that may overcome us. greece was, in fact, a small problem, let’s be honest. i call it a small problem and, from another perspective, mr tsipras, you naturally call it a very big problem, but let’s face the reality: the accumulated debt of three decades was eur 300 billion. you know what that is: it is 2% of the yearly european wealth that we create, eur 15 trillion a year. i was in china and in the treasury in america, explaining the greek crisis, and i have to tell you that when i tried to explain it, and i gave the figures, they said to me: ‘what is the problem?’ the problem is, naturally, that 20 years after the introduction of the euro and the single currency – and this, i hope, will be the conclusion of our debate with you – 20 years after the introduction of the euro, mr tsipras, we are still not capable of facing such problems as we have had with greece and as could happen tomorrow with other countries in the european union, because we do not have the right institutions. we do not have the right governance. we have, in fact, only the european central bank and mr draghi to steer the european economic and monetary union. and you know, and i know and everybody in this house knows, that this is impossible. we need a fully fledged banking union, and, mr dombrovskis, although you say that we are making progress, we don’t have it today. we need a common eurozone budget, which we don’t have today. we need a safe euro asset, which could be a eurobond or something similar – although the germans will call it differently – to compete with the other big currency, the dollar, and we don’t have that safe euro asset. and we also need a european minister of finance (instead of three commissioners responsible for the euro as today), and we don’t have it. and that is the problem. the conclusion is that if, tomorrow, something happens again in greece, in italy or in another member state of the european union, this monetary union will not be capable of addressing the reality, and the worst will happen again. you will remember, mr tsipras, that four years ago we had an energetic – some have even said a ‘ferocious’ – exchange of views in the house here. this time i will keep it moderate because i have to save my energy for mr orbán this afternoon, so please be aware of that, but you will certainly remember that i asked you a question at the end: how do you want to be remembered in history, as an electoral accident or as a revolutionary reformer? well, you’re certainly not an electoral accident, that is clear because you are still here, but my answer today is that you didn’t become one or the other. my feeling and my assessment, in terms of the reality on the ground in greece, is that – in spite of all the efforts that so many people, so many ordinary greek citizens, have made – the old greek system is largely still in place. i don’t see markets opening, i don’t see professions being deregulated, i don’t see a vibrant private financial sector active in the greek economy. but the same is true not only for greece: the old system of the eurozone is also still in place. the word ‘crisis’, as we know, comes from a classical greek word meaning, in fact, a moment of truth, a moment of decision, a moment of choice. well, i think that greece, italy and the whole eurozone will remain under threat if we do not make a choice in the coming months and years, at this moment of the end of the greek crisis, to bring about the re-foundation of our union and reform of the monetary union. if we were not to do so, it would be a scandal, a tragedy not only for greece but for europe. so, what i would say to you, mr tsipras, is that i liked the end of your story, when you made an appeal to all pro-europeans to come together. i liked it. why? because you did not fall into the trap of the extremists on the right or on the left (because they exist on the left, too), of saying ‘no’ to europe, making war against europe and thinking that only national recipes can save us. i liked that, and it is good that you said what you did to the face of your own friends.
mr president, i have to say: i'm surprised at you. but i am also very pleased to see here a greek prime minister with a lot of confidence, a greek prime minister who finds the energy to think about the future again. the future of the greek people, but also the future of europe, and let us be clear, the two are very closely linked. we do not agree on everything, but your analysis of neoliberal policy is supported by this whole group. the future of europe does not lie in neoliberal solutions. it's in solutions that have to do with how we can combat social inequality. because that is the basis of nationalism and xenophobia today. how do we combat the climate problem and how do we ensure - as my group leader has already said - that they are looked at together? how do we make a transition in our economy that is a proper transition? you have also spoken about this and i think it is worth the support of our group.
president, prime minister tsipras, thank you for the debate on the future of europe, a future of which i am glad the greeks will be an integral part. because, frankly, four years ago, there was no certainty about that. a future in which solidarity and responsibility will continue to go hand in hand, despite all the progress that greece has already made. let's be honest here. you may be out of intensive care, but that doesn't mean you're completely cured. that is why i am asking for guarantees, guarantees that we will not go back to 2014, to the beginning of your mandate. i would also like to see guarantees that without memoranda we will not go back to the way in which you and yannis varoufakis managed to cause 200 billion in damage in six months, a figure which i cannot find out here on the spot, a figure which mr dijsselbloem confirmed this weekend. i ask you, prime minister tsipras, to guarantee that if you want to continue to count on our solidarity, we can also continue to count on your responsibility.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, you and mr orbán can be reassured that i will not go so far as the late john mccain, who on the floor of the american senate called mr orbán ‘a neo—fascist in bed with putin’. those are not my words; they have been said before. also, i will not come back to all the violations that have been put in this report. let’s be honest between each other, the inconvenient truth is that, under these circumstances, it would be impossible today, mr orbán, for hungary to join the european union. that is the reality of today. (applause)what i would really ask you to do – because i like hungary and i certainly like hungarian literature and culture – is anyway to stop saying ‘oh, that’s an action against hungary, an action against the hungarian people’. you are not hungary, you’re the government of hungary and the leader of a political party and hungary is far more and far more eternal than you are. (applause)my intervention is not to you, it is especially to our epp colleagues, and i have one plea, which is that hopefully this evening they will follow their conscience when they decide on this. i know that’s not always easy to do. we are talking about somebody of the family, and i can tell you that i had the same problem at a certain moment. that was the moment when we had the dilemma to push out of our family jörg haider of the fpö. we did it in the end, also based on counsel, because we thought that more important than size and power are in fact principles and values. the second reason is for european reasons, manfred. what we are living today is the survival and existential battle over the survival of the european project. if mr orbán is publicly siding with salvini, openly discussing the disruption of this european project, well, we need that not to happen in the coming years. my last argument and reason is mainly because, and i will recognise it – that doesn’t happen often – that the european union has been based on christian democratic principles, beliefs and energy for decades. we all know them: adenauer, schuman, monnet, de gasperi. i want to use the words of one of these giants, of robert schuman, and i will quote him: ‘christianity teaches us equality of all men without distinction between race, colour, class or profession [...] the dignity of each human person in protection of his individual liberty and with respect for his individual rights by practicing brotherly love to all’. so i want to plead to you, my christian democratic colleagues, to recognise that the way schuman looked at christianity is in many ways exactly the opposite to the divisive, narrow and destructive actions and opinions of mr orbán. dear colleagues, please for once see that he is the seed of discord that will ultimately destroy our beautiful european project and please, together with us, stop this nightmare this evening in your group.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. these values are common to the member states in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. that, ladies and gentlemen, is what article 2 of the treaty on european union says, which, before being a large market, is a union of values. values which, on the basis of the factual report of our parliament, are called into question by the action of the hungarian government. no, mr prime minister, it is not about hungary, it is not about the hungarian people, it is about the actions of the hungarian government, and i know many hungarians who are not in your action. in a democracy, having a majority does not automatically legitimize any action. no, mr orbán, neither nepotism nor the abuse of european funds, nor the violation of academic and religious freedoms, nor the suffocation of the media and ngos, nor the undermining of the judiciary are compatible with european values. i would add, as a defender of the christian values you claim to be, that refusing to feed rejected asylum seekers seems to me totally contradictory to the message of the gospel. it is not enough to say that the sargentini report is a fabrication to erase the reality. the reality is that if your country were today a candidate for eu membership, as guy verhofstadt said, it could not be admitted without fundamental changes in its structures and legislation. like others before you, mr prime minister, you have repeatedly compared the european union to the defunct soviet union. such an analogy is scandalous, because it was a free decision by hungary to join the european union and, to my knowledge, never have the tanks of the european union invaded the capital of a country to ensure that it remained in the european union. but make no mistake: for us, hungary's place is at the heart of europe, and in europe there are no second-rate member states. but while membership of the union creates rights and benefits, these come with responsibilities and obligations. the launch of the article 7 procedure is aimed at one thing only: ensuring compliance with these obligations. i would like to say solemnly to our colleagues in the epp that you have mr orbán's party, fidesz, in your ranks. for a long time, he was considered a bit of the black sheep of the family. now he claims to be the one to set the course! the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. how can you still say that no red line has been crossed yet? but where are your limits? will you abandon your humanist values to campaign on the issues of the far right, to make a joint list with it, to govern with it or simply to implement its programme? i am re-reading a resolution adopted by the epp congress in 2015 entitled 'protecting the union and promoting our values'. you defended, i quote, 'liberal democracy based on the rule of law and a multiparty system, a strong civil society, freedom of expression and association' and i conclude, ladies and gentlemen, that the vote on the judith sargentini report gives you, my colleagues from the epp, a unique opportunity to put a strong gesture behind the words. i have heard manfred weber and i am sure that many of you will do the same.
in writing. hungary is a sovereign member state which has voluntarily chosen to join the union, with all the benefits that are quite a lot for hungary and all the obligations that come with it. the maintenance of the union's fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law is part of that. mr orbán is wrapping up these violations of fundamental values in a dark brown discourse on migration, a sham move that earns him applause in this hall from all those european parties - including nationalists and populists in my country - who want to make electoral profit from the suffering of people fleeing war and oppression. if we fail, ladies and gentlemen, to stop the rise of authoritarianism in one member state, this will give the extremists elsewhere in the union the strength to systematically undermine the fundamental rights of their own people. when we talk about a europe that protects, it means not only that we must protect our external borders better, but also that we must protect the hungarians. we are living in an era where threats are not only outside our borders, but unfortunately also within our borders.
mr president, tomorrow the european parliament will decide how it wants to reform copyright. and for n-va it is already clear which way we should go. we are going for a copyright that is adapted to the 21st century, a copyright that understands the way the internet is today and that does not stand in the way of digitization and innovation. above all, a text that speaks clear language and does not lead to confusion, as is the case now. and let me be very clear, it is essential that artists and authors receive fair and proper compensation for their work. but that should never come at the expense of free speech or innovation. we therefore reject compulsory upload filters and link taxes. such disproportionate measures do not fit in with our picture.
madam president, our position must not be tainted by anti-american sentiment, because for us europeans the united states is and has always been a privileged partner. but the political context of the trump era should make us more vigilant. trump is arguably the most unpredictable american president, but also the most hostile to multilateralism, multilateralism which is the dna of the european union. i am therefore wondering about this famous juncker-trump deal, which i find worrying in several ways. first, because of its lack of transparency. what is the mandate by which mr juncker was able to negotiate with mr trump? we are not aware of the mandate given to mr juncker here today. secondly, by its lack of balance of interests. what european interests have been defended in this agreement? it seems to me that the reintegration of the us into the paris agreement would have been a precondition for any discussion with mr trump. third, by its unreliability. we have not succeeded in getting the americans to remove the tariffs on aluminium and steel in these agreements. similarly, with regard to our partners, such as iran, pakistan, china, but also the palestinians, the europeans have not obtained any guarantee of reliability. so i think that mr juncker may have shown weakness in his discussions with mr trump.
on behalf of the group of the european right thank you, chairman. "safe at home" is the slogan of the n-va team in koksijde-oostduinkerke. that's what the n-va stands for: the commission has already taken steps to ensure the safety of our citizens and to combat crime at flemish, federal, european and, of course, local level in our own municipality. we really need to combat this crime, especially with our open economies in europe and our open flemish economy, with our seaports. recently, we have had a lot of attention in the news about drug trafficking and how we can deal with it. but what do we see? in europe, large sums of money move across borders within the european union, but also beyond european borders. that is why this dossier is important, so that we can introduce new, strict rules with controls on, among other things, cash entering and leaving europe. we must take every measure to strengthen our fight so that the criminals can no longer slip through the cracks of the net.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i first want to react to mr legutko. what he is saying is terrifying. he is saying here that we were never so disunited as today. has he forgotten what europe was between the two world wars? has he forgotten what europe was in the cold war? has he never heard about the berlin wall and the iron curtain? (applause)europe is united now. mr legutko is not offering another vision. he says he is in another world from mr juncker: very well, for me that’s no problem. but please, mr legutko, don’t say things that are completely crazy in a continent that has seen 20 million dead and victims because of nationalism and populism like that which you defend today. that is the point. (applause)i have to tell you, mr juncker, i did not want to start on this note but i find it so terrifying that somebody should give us lessons here about unity in europe and then try, with his government, to go against the rule of law and against a number of other things – against european values. sorry, i wanted to start with the state of the union of jean-claude juncker, and especially a part that none of the speakers so far has mentioned, namely the part about africa. i think you are right, jean-claude, you have made a clear proposal: they don’t need charity. what they need is a true partnership, between africa and the eu. and i think it is possible to create what i would call the biggest economic and trade area in the world, because if europe does that with africa, it will become – it is already – the biggest trade area. it will also, in my opinion, be a true alternative for africa, for african citizens, to the takeover by the chinese, which is happening every day, every week, in every investment today in africa. i think that parliament must support you in pursuing this goal. my question is a little different to the questions from other political group leaders. it is this: last year you gave us your legacy, and you repeated that this year, and so the question is whether we can translate that legacy into reality in the coming years? it is an existential year of elections with a number of threats, let’s be honest, with the rise of nationalism and populism everywhere in europe. we have a number of authoritarian leaders. (interjection from the floor: ‘hurray’) yes, thank you for supporting me! we have leaders like mr kaczyński and like mr orbán, who is, in fact, hijacking our european parties. i think they’re doing a little of what trump is doing in the us republican party. (heckling) let’s be honest, your voice is only an affirmation of this. the inconvenient truth is that the alt-right in europe is trying to undermine this european union and is actually trying to take over european politics from within: to do the opposite of the agenda that jean-claude juncker presented to us today. it is for that reason – and i think all of us, certainly including manfred weber, are aware of this – that in the vote we are going to have in a few moments it is so important that all pro-europeans are united against this alt-right authoritarian tendency apparent in a number of our countries. leading the european union is not only a matter of mathematical strength: it’s also a question of moral authority. and it is moral authority which is at stake at the moment in the european union. in the same spirit, mr juncker, i want to ask the commission about a specific issue: something that you mentioned very briefly, but which i want to go into in more detail. i want to ask the commission to introduce in the coming months a package of specific proposals and measures to protect our elections against the foreign meddling that we have already seen in other continents and in other places in europe. these would include, for example, measures identifying foreign agents who are active on european social media platforms, as well as the extremist politicians with whom they are colluding. in the usa, as you all know, special counsel robert mueller has been appointed to investigate russian interference in elections, and they have already issued dozens of indictments. i think we need to catch up as quickly as possible by establishing our own special prosecutor to investigate and to stop all disinformation in europe too – and certainly before it is too late in the light of the european elections to be held next year. my special request to you, mr juncker, is to ask if the commission could take an initiative on this and bring it to the table of the council and the table of the european parliament. finally, my last point: i want to support you in one thing. the most important point you made was about the end of unanimity and the use of what is called, using a french term, the passerelle clause. that was your most important proposal, and my proposal, jean-claude, is that you be ambitious. include all fields, all possible articles of the treaty, in your proposal on the passerelle clause, because i am pretty sure that, at the other side of the table, in the council there will be a number of them who will not be in agreement with you. it is obvious that the best thing to do in politics is to ask for the maximum possible. start with 100%. say ‘i want the end of unanimity inside the european union’ because that is the main problem at the moment in deciding on a number of things: for example, as you mentioned mr juncker, the migration package. with the council not capable of deciding, even when it is with a qualified majority, my proposal is to be ambitious: include the whole package, all fields of foreign policy and, as far as i am concerned, all fields of taxation too. include everything in it and we will see what the end game will be if we support you. you said – and this will be my conclusion – that this would be the ‘last-chance commission’. do you remember that, four years ago? and i have been asking myself what can come after the ‘last-chance commission’ in the coming years. i think that what will come is something different. the commission that we need in the future, colleagues, will be more than that: it will be a type of new, renewed european government. and it will have one task, which is to realise further the legacy of jean-claude juncker, as well as the other visions that have been set out in recent months, for example by the french president in his sorbonne speech. that will be the task of this new commission. and that – furthering your legacy – is also the task that we, as our political group and movement, will offer to the electorate as a real european alternative to the nationalists and the populists inside and outside this house. (applause)
madam president, as you know, you never get a second chance to make a first impression, and in that sense, you will never get a second chance to be the commission of the last chance. and that’s what you promised us when you started this legislature, and that ship has sailed, i have to say. we know now that the successor of mr juncker will be the next commission president of the last chance. and this time it might get really serious. yesterday, we saw the face of the anti-democrats, and we all know that sort of extremism in europe is based on raising inequalities and the fact that our citizens fear for the future for themselves and their children. this commission promised us a triple a on social issues. what we have is a lot of paper and nice words but not the concrete measures to fight inequalities. and you said you would tackle migration and make sure that we have good answers to that, and now everything is based on the fact that we need to defend our borders. and last but not least, you said we would be top for climate change. we did some things in the right direction but we lack the real ambition to have a sustainable future.
i am very pleased that you, mr president, are offering european solutions to the challenges we face. your proposals today were ambitious, but sometimes we can be even more ambitious and even more concrete. i'd like to make a few recommendations. as far as the qualified majority is concerned, i think we need to go beyond foreign policy. as regards security and defence policy, i would like to reiterate our call for a genuine european intelligence service in the fight against terrorism. and on asylum and migration, i would like to hear from you that you are stepping up the fight against human traffickers and that you are protecting unaccompanied minor asylum seekers and making sure that they no longer disappear into europe. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. let us abolish the switch, let us listen to the voice of the citizen and opt for daylight saving time, and let us do it quickly. in conclusion: we support you! the european union must be able to take action to stop the populists.
president, mr juncker, i found one thing particularly positive about your state of the union address, namely that we can at least be sure that it will be your last. an ambitious and comprehensive programme, i read everywhere about your admirers, but in fact it is just a shopping list of what remains of the old europe, the old european union. what we urgently need is a new european union, because the present one has a wrong design, a wrong basic plan and a wrong blueprint. if you think progress means that more powers should go to the eu, you are wrong. more and more european citizens want a new european union, in which the member states and the peoples do not disappear but are restored to their dignity. in your ivory tower, you have so beautifully divided the world into cosmopolitan, open-minded, traveling, good people on the one hand and populist, narrow-minded, xenophobic, nationalist, bad people on the other. you fanatical, extremist supporters of diversity, i therefore call upon you: accept the diversity of opinions and visions, put away your shopping list and make way for the new age!
madam president, it is not enough to say that the first pillar of pensions is necessary. the first pillar of pensions must first be strong, i.e. with a replacement rate that does not plunge pensioners into poverty. it must be non-discriminatory, i.e. it must compensate for situations where there are pension gaps, such as for women. it must be modernized, of course, not only in connection with the ageing of the population but also in the light of new forms of contract. today we see employment reforms, zero-rate contributions, which are gifts to businesses, but are deadly for the pension system. and so to say that pensions are not a matter for the european union is wrong, because the european semester system today requires countries to make savings in their social security. and social security is the pension system. today, social security is not being approached in terms of the well-being of individuals, but in terms of the savings we can make. it is a short-term management of social security. so transferring the collective solution of solidarity pensions by distribution to an individual capitalisation system is not the solution. the pepp (pan-european personal pension product) is perhaps a financial savings product, which we probably need to improve. but the pepp is simply a plus for those who already have, but it is nothing at all for those who do not have today, and so our concern must go to those who today are not covered by a fair pension system that allows them to live in dignity.
mr president, a debate on the future of pensions cannot be held without mentioning the concerns of the next generation. i don't think i'm the first to stress this this afternoon: will there be a pension for us, for my generation? aging is a fact. figures show that the population will continue to grow. but the active population will continue to decline at the same time. that's fewer workers to support more people. this means increasing costs for public pensions, which will become increasingly difficult to finance. the president-in-office of the european council, mr van rompuy, has said: "with the evolution from four active workers to two for every one retired in 50 years, it is no longer a question of left or right, but of pure arithmetic". the real solution to controlling pension costs, in my view, lies in three things: first, we need to get the public budgets in the eurozone in order, so that there is room to absorb the growth in pension costs. secondly, we must increase the degree of effectiveness. the more people in work, the more contributions to pensions. thirdly, measures are needed to reform the pension system itself and to keep people in work longer. finally, part of the solution is also for people to invest more in supplementary pensions themselves. we have known for a long time that we cannot survive on public money alone in the long term. the second pillar is the european union's policy on the environment. all too often it's the bottom of society that doesn't save money for later. it is wrong, indeed unjust, that the very parties which are supposed to be defending these people should be put on the brakes for ideological reasons. the private market can provide solutions. but then we must all have the courage to sit down at the table and create a framework for this too. for example, after retirement people have the security of a guaranteed supplementary income, on top of the pension, for the rest of their lives. so let us work together to develop a global vision to tackle these problems. let's show for once that we as politicians can also think long term.
the rapporteur. - mr president, a few days ago a major campaign to clean up the ocean began in the united states. the images went around the world. the ocean cleanup wants to use plastic traps to help clean up the plastic soup in the pacific ocean. i hope that the boyhood dream of the young dutchman boyan slat will be a success. it is noble to clean up the rubbish of the past, but of course we must first of all ensure that we prevent plastic waste from ending up in the sea. so we need to be more sensible about plastic. that is the focus of our debate here today. plastic is an important and valuable material, and it's hard to imagine it being eliminated from our society and our economy. the problem is the way we produce and use plastic today. it's untenable. plastic is designed to last forever, but all too often we only use it once. sometimes it disappears after a few seconds or minutes in the garbage bag, or worse, in the environment. we're very sloppy with the material. we produce almost 26 million tonnes of plastic waste in the european union every year, but only 30% of it is collected for recycling. all this has disastrous consequences for the environment, the climate and the economy. our ecosystems are suffering from pollution. not least our seas and oceans, which are turning into a plastic soup. we're missing out on opportunities to reduce our carbon footprint. we are literally leaking the euros out of our economy. 95% of the value of the material is lost. the recent chinese ban on the import of plastic waste from the european union is also a slap in the face. for years, in europe, we have outsourced our plastic waste problem for convenience. we must therefore take the chinese ban as an opportunity to invest ourselves in recycling capacity in the european union and to change our policy. the momentum is there, not just at the political level, but also among many citizens, where the support for action is growing. the point is to turn this public concern into public responsibility, into shared responsibility. so my report is not a plea against plastic, but a plea for a circular artificial economy, where we deal with plastic in a sustainable and responsible way, so that we can stop its harmful effects and preserve its value in the chain. to succeed, we need to use the strategy as a lever for circular production and consumption models. we have to provide customized solutions, since there are no one-size-fits-all solutions. and we need to work together across the entire value chain. better and more plastic recycling is the start. a few months ago, we passed ambitious new waste legislation here. full and rapid implementation of these measures is essential. but more is needed: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the packaging directive is a way of working towards a truly circular product design. companies can make a difference by linking their brand and marketing to circular production and consumption models. the creation of a genuine internal market for recycled plastics is also fundamental. today, the share of recycled plastic is estimated to be only 6%. to do this, we need to strengthen market confidence through quality standards and verification. minimum requirements for recycled content, a lower vat rate and a circular purchasing policy can also further encourage the use of recycled plastics. more and better recycling is necessary, but not sufficient in itself to move towards a true circular economy. i'll keep that in mind. the prevention of plastic waste remains crucial. one way to do this is by taking smart action on single-use plastics. the commission has now put forward a legislative proposal on this point, and we are working on it in the committee on the environment, together with my colleague frédérique ries and others. my report also calls for a deliberate use of bio-plastics. on the basis of clear standards and criteria, biodegradable plastic can play a supporting role, but it is not the panacea for marine litter. bio-based plastics can help reduce our dependence on third countries by partially differentiating the raw materials. but research and development are of great importance here to give innovation a chance. we call for a ban on oxo-plastics and microplastics in cosmetics and other products by 2020. finally, we call for further efforts to promote research and innovation, also in the next multiannual financial framework. the eu must also be a global player and, of course, set a good example in its own institutions. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their very constructive cooperation. i hope that tomorrow we will say 'yes' by a large majority to a new circular plastic economy that offers opportunities for the environment, climate and economy.
mr president, in the mid-1950s, plastic was a revolution, an invention that changed everything: products, quantities, possibilities, practices and our behaviour as well. but today we have to face the fact that we are drowning in waste and our oceans are dying. for half of them, it's these plates, these cotton buds, these straws, these cups, these bottles -- all these everyday objects that you use once, you throw away, and then it takes 500 years, maybe 1,000 years to decompose. so, as rapporteur for the european parliament on this directive on single-use plastics, i naturally support marc demesmaeker's ambition to promote the dynamics of the transition to a circular economy for plastics. that said, recycling is also, in some ways, encouraging production. and then it can be very complicated, especially when plastics contain problematic chemicals. clearly, the sustainable solution is to reduce the production, the consumption of plastic. every year, 500 000 tonnes of plastic waste are dumped into the seas of the european union, and this is no longer sustainable.
report by mr pompidou, drawn up on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission. president, i would like to thank mrs kadenbach for her report and her hard work. i appreciate that in her report she has also taken account of the itre opinion on antimicrobial resistance. as rapporteur for itre, i have tried to find sustainable solutions. these sustainable solutions, to me, lie in the following elements. it is of immense importance that research and innovation be continuously stimulated. the search for new antibiotics is crucial, but epidemiology and immunology also offer opportunities. this search will be undertaken mainly by pharmaceutical companies and research institutes. so there can be no single economic model, but there must be multiple drivers for the development of new antibiotics. we are talking here in the report about the pull and push incentives. in addition, it is also important that the patient be given a prompt and accurate diagnosis. is it infected with a bacterium or a virus, and which bacterium is it? the technology of that new rapid diagnosis should be available and accessible in all member states. antimicrobial resistance is not just a european problem, it is a global problem. we as the european union must put our backs to it. we must look for possible solutions. we must take our responsibility here by seeking european and international cooperation and thus resolving a world problem together.
mr president, clean, competitive and connected mobility is what we are all about. mobility accounts for a quarter of all emissions in the european union and remains the main cause of air pollution problems in our cities. the health of our citizens suffers and it is for them first of all that we must work towards cleaner mobility. we will also need to show greater ambition to achieve our climate goals. to this end, policy makers need to frame and facilitate modal shift, new technologies and principles such as mobility as a service. in conclusion, may i also stress that we still need a strong and competitive european automobile industry? i am concerned to hear that the market share of our european sector has fallen sharply over the last ten years. the car manufacturers can only secure their position if they are encouraged to innovate. the car was invented in europe! let us make sure that we can continue to pioneer in the future.
as always, mr president, good legislation stands or falls with good implementation. the report clearly shows the need for better implementation, enforcement and monitoring of existing legislation on plant protection products. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the nva delegation supports this report. we are particularly keen to improve the use of good agricultural practices, such as integrated pest management. we certainly also support the call for greater transparency in the procedures. that can only serve to strengthen trust. the call for research and innovation, including in the field of biological pesticides, can also count on our support. finally, i would like to stress that we are and will remain committed to a scientifically based, objective and evidence-based policy.
mr president, the anxiety of europeans is growing with the crises and with the resignations. the glyphosate saga, as has been said, with this new five-year renewal, the crisis of eggs contaminated with fipronil it was last summer the soap opera of neonicotinoids, insecticides that kill bees that finally led to the ban, last may, of three of them. one thing is clear: pesticide legislation is not being properly applied by the member states. the abusive use of emergency authorisations, in particular, must cease. in belgium, it is the use of this procedure, provided for in article 53, which justifies the continued use of a substance as dangerous to the respiratory tract as chloropicrin on strawberry plants in the open field. this brings us back to the application of the precautionary principle, which, i would remind you, is a principle of action and not an encouragement to sit still, to do nothing. our parliament has an urgent duty to do so with regard to pesticides, as with other products. it must put the health of europeans first, as proposed in the excellent report by our colleague pavel poc, which i of course support.
- a writer. mr president, allow me first of all to welcome the cambodian delegation, including the leader of the opposition, mr sam rainsy, who is following this debate from the rostrum. welcome to the club, friends! if you want to know a man's character, you must give him power. abraham lincoln knew that a long time ago. we have met the cambodian prime minister hun sen. the longest-serving prime minister on this planet is so power-hungry that he's using every means to stay in office for another ten years. for this, he ruthlessly pushes aside all those who stand in the way, such as kem sokha, former leader of the main opposition party, cnrp, which was dissolved under pressure in the run-up to the elections. autocrats are not tolerant of dissent. democracy is in a deadlock. the hun sen government lacks any legitimacy and all the international criticism has still not worked. there 's a flemish proverb that says: if you don't want to hear, feel. it's time this regime felt like it meant business. so it is high time for sanctions, visa sanctions, trade sanctions. i see no reason to wait any longer.
before we vote on the resolution on cambodia, i would like to draw your attention, as a co-rapporteur, to the fact that we have a delegation from cambodia in the gallery, with a group of monks and also opposition leader sam rainsy. i would like to welcome them to the public gallery. they've been following our debates.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament has decided to put the question of support for local authorities involved in the reception of refugees on the agenda for wednesday's sitting. i think this debate makes perfect sense, but it is a bit surreal to hold it at a time when everything seems to be done to prevent any refugee from setting foot on the territory of the european union. i want to see the aquarius, the last ship chartered by ngos which i believe honour the values of the european union, put out of the way and that the member states are clearly not scrambling to take in the 58 refugees it is hosting. i therefore think it is urgent to talk about it, because while it is necessary to talk about support for local authorities, it makes little sense if, at the same time, we do not deal with the urgency of halting humanitarian operations in the mediterranean. i therefore ask you to add this point, as the president has indicated.
the committee of the regions thank you, mr president. with the new legislation on health technology assessment, we are taking a step in the right direction for three reasons. first, we are concerned with every patient, no matter where in the european union. this european collaboration will increase the chances of patients with a rare cancer or disease having access to a medicine that works. subject to the necessary protection of patient and company privacy, member states will have access to larger-scale research data that they could not have collected separately. secondly, this european clinical assessment is a good development for the manufacturer. the pharmaceutical industry only has to undergo one clinical trial at european level, not 28. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to provide the necessary information to the member states. the clinical evaluation of new health technologies ensures that member states are kept informed of market developments and whether these products perform better than those already on the market. by putting more emphasis on innovative developments, we are boosting our health sector at european level. thirdly, i am very much in favour of maintaining flexibility, both for the member states and for the coordination group which is drawing up the evaluation. it is up to the member states themselves to decide whether to introduce a reimbursement system for the new technology. some member states can extend their voluntary cooperation even further, as is already the case with eunethta or beneluxa. the coordination group shall keep track of which new technologies are ground-breaking. if we want to fully develop research and innovation in europe, with the patient at the centre, then a european health technology assessment is the way forward together with the member states. first, ms gesine meissner would like to thank the rapporteur, soledad cabezón ruiz, for her good work and all the shadow rapporteurs for their collaboration. this is a very important file that will accelerate access to medicines for patients in the eu. by simplifying procedures by doing them once for the eu market instead of once in every eu member state, it will indeed reduce the workload of the administrative bodies in the member states the scientists, but also the manufacturers. however, we are aware of member states' reservations regarding their competences. that is why it was one of my key priorities to draw a clear distinction between eu and national competences. we have managed to negotiate overall compromises on all the paragraphs which alde supported in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) vote and which it will support in the plenary vote as well. one of my key concerns was the inclusion of high-risk medical devices in the scope of an eu hta. with the new medical devices regulation we have just adopted new standards on the safety and performance of medical devices. regardless of their class, medical devices must be proven to be safe and their performance must be verified. a new requirement of the clinical benefits, which is the added value of a medical device, will also have to be demonstrated. i propose to focus on strong legislation for medical products and look at the medical devices at the second stage. although my approach did not make it entirely into the final compromises, i was very pleased to see that the rapporteur agreed to further narrow the scope on medical devices. this is a good starting point for further negotiation. generally speaking, i think we have reached a good and solid agreement which gives a good basis for the negotiations with the council and the commission.
"we don't have such people in our country", president kadyrov said, refuting allegations of persecution of gays in chechnya. horrible when you know that by that time, he had already systematically rounded up dozens, hundreds of innocent gay men and put them in concentration camps. there are reports of torture and even executions. since his appointment, kadyrov has been reigning in terror against the gay community. in the kremlin, the president of the russian federation, vladimir putin, likes to turn a blind eye in exchange for political support from chechnya. after the international outrage, it's time to act. i would also like to refer to the report by my flemish n-va colleague, piet de bruyn, which was adopted by the council of europe. commissioner, there can be no impunity for this kind of human rights violation. there must be an independent investigation and eventually prosecution of all those responsible. colleagues, the gay community in chechnya is being criminalized, persecuted and tortured. the questions we are asking the commission are pertinent. what are we gonna do about it? how do we keep the pressure on kadyrov and putin? i think that there is a broad support in this parliament for actually increasing the pressure. finally, i also call on all member states to take in persecuted chechen homosexual refugees, following the example of our belgian state secretary theo francken. they deserve our protection.
first of all, mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur and our colleagues for this fine result. their hard work will be the foundation on which we can build a framework for blockchain. but how do you build a framework for something that's so abstract, that we don't know the impact and the possibilities of, a technology that has potentially infinite practical applications? that is why it is important that we regulate not the technology itself but the applications that are developed from it. it is the only way to avoid putting innovation on the back burner. that would be a great pity, because the industry that is being created around blockchain is already worth billions today. it's an opportunity we must seize with both hands. let's make europe the blockchain valley of the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my proposal is that mr henkel repeat that speech at the conservative party congress, not here in the european parliament. he may deplore the situation, but it’s there that they have made the wrong decision and not here. minister, i think that you have three priorities at the next european council, after salisbury. the first is to unblock the migration file and especially the migration file on dublin because, let’s be honest, the commission has a proposal and parliament has an opinion, but when will the council have an opinion? it’s fantastic to find always ways and new proposals on migration, but you have to have a position. take a position and we can start negotiations, because it is this broken dublin system that really is the source of the rise of racism, problems with migrants, and also of nationalism and populism. my second point to you is to put on the agenda in october the question of our values. we see it everywhere in europe – and certainly in a number of countries: illiberalism is on the rise, and it will not be by being silent that it will go away. on the contrary, it will continue. i think that the time is here to put it on the agenda, because the kaczyński government is continuing, they are now already abusing the ses system, the schengen information system, to stop democracy advocates and activists. mr orbán is even financing, i think with european money, a campaign against the european parliament, mr president. you spoke about that yesterday. my question to you, to the presidency of the council, is are you going to put article 7 concerning poland and hungary on the agenda of the next european council? (applause)i want a clear answer from you. you are obliged to do so based on the treaties and based on the fact that the parliament has activated article 7. my third priority, colleagues, is naturally to keep and to reiterate unity on brexit – unity between the member states, unity between the institutions. this unity is absolutely needed when you see these insane notions of some tory politicians the last days, like boris johnson whose latest invention, you’ve seen, is to build a bridge. he will solve the problem by building a bridge between the uk mainland and ireland, when mr boris johnson is more known for burning bridges than for building bridges! then there is mr rees mogg who is saying, yeah i have the proposal for the future of brexit and ordinary citizens can be secure that their savings will be secure after brexit, and in the meanwhile he’s opening himself an investment fund in ireland to transfer his money to ireland! manfred weber has already talked about jeremy hunt comparing the european union with the soviet union, but in his case i have to tell you that is not so abnormal for him, manfred, as he once even confused japan with china. so that is not the first time that this is happening. but that said, the previous time he was insulting his wife, but here he does something far more different. he is insulting not us, but millions of ordinary citizens who lived under soviet rule for such a long time. (applause)that is in fact a point on which he has to apologise, i think, because we cannot accept such a thing he said. my proposal, minister, is that you have three clear messages at this council meeting. first, on the migration system, we will never accept discrimination based on skills and on nationality, as javid this morning proposed. secondly, that we will never accept – and i say it also very clearly to the british colleagues here – an extension of this whole procedure. mr boris johnson this morning has said ‘we want an extension of article 50’. i think it’s a very bad idea. enough mess has been created by brexit; enough uncertainty has been created by brexit. let’s stop it. the third is that we will never give in and undermine the principles of our union. we will never undermine the principles of the union european project to rescue a political party in britain which is not even capable to find a common line on the exit from the mess of brexit. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, a fortnight ago, the heads of state and government of the european union met informally in salzburg. first, they carefully ignored this parliament’s call to open an article 7 procedure on hungary, and then they focused on what they believe is their main topic, migration, as if this were the existential topic that our union is facing. once again, they failed to reach any substantial agreement. i have only one thing to say about this: a year ago, the vast majority of this parliament had the strength and the audacity to go beyond dublin and to agree on how our union, by acting together, can fulfil its humanitarian duty in a responsible and effective way. the european council would be well advised to follow in our footsteps. however, one thing on which the eu 27 did agree, was their stance on the brexit negotiation. i shall readily agree that some statements made after salzburg were unnecessarily blunt, but they came nowhere close to what we heard from the british foreign secretary, who took over the now commonplace rhetoric of the far right, comparing the european union with the soviet union. let him be reminded that the united kingdom decided freely to join the european union. it also decided freely to hold a referendum on its membership in which the citizens voted freely. a majority chose to leave, and we respect that decision. however, to those – especially in the united kingdom – who blame the eu27 for lack of flexibility, i will say this: we cannot be held responsible for resolving intractable contradictions in the british position. indeed, it is this government’s choice to interpret the referendum as a decision to leave both the single market and the customs union. it is also its choice to refuse any form of special status for northern ireland, and it was its free choice to be party to the good friday agreement that brought peace to ireland. these three constraints are incompatible with one another, and resolving this british contradiction can in no way justify the dilution of the single market, one of the union’s key pillars. to both leavers and remainers, i will say that it is in no—one’s best interest to have the united kingdom crash out of the european union. this would imperil peace in ireland, it would jeopardise the prosperity of too many of our fellow citizens, and it would poison the relationship between the two sides for the foreseeable future. we should now focus on the only thing that matters, namely finding, in the next few weeks, an agreement on the terms of the withdrawal. this will then provide both sides with the time needed to build our future relationship and, in our view, no relationship between the uk and the eu surpasses eu membership. who knows, there may come a day in the near, or distant, future when the majority of british citizens will assert that the only way for britain to be global is to be part of the european union. our door will remain open to you. you will always be welcome where the united kingdom really belongs. (applause)
president, ladies and gentlemen, we must stop illegal immigration into europe. the only way to do this is to build on the australian model. it is incomprehensible that ngo boats pick up migrants as far as just off the coast of north africa and then sail towards europe instead of to a safe port in the region. saving lives is noble, but supporting illegal migration to europe is not. the european summit in june decided to examine whether regional disembarkation platforms could be an alternative. these centres in third countries would then take in the drowning. that practice is fully in line with international law. it was decided in one breath that all boats operating in the mediterranean should not interfere with the libyan coast guard. so it is not when libya, like those platforms, stops boats heading for europe. the rescue operation, which no longer automatically results in an asylum application in europe, will have a strong deterrent effect. as in australia, that will bring the tragic drowning to zero. this is how we can bring migration back under control, which increases the support of the citizens for the really needy and the smugglers lose their source of income. i would like to ask the commission and all the relevant ministers in the european union, as do the european heads of government, to adopt the australian model. i hope that the european summit will finally reach concrete agreements to tackle illegal migration in a coordinated way.
mr president, what has just been said about brexit can just as well be applied to the whole migration debate. the commission has come up with an agenda two years ago and this parliament has often spoken across the house in favour of reforming that policy and what is the council doing - albeit democratically legitimated - what is the council doing? two years of bickering, disagreeing, and not coming up with a single decent proposal. the only thing left today is the so-called disembarcation centers debate and frankly: i don't even know what that means. who the hell comes up with names like that? and at the same time, madam president, at the same time the aquarius has lost its flag, the aquarius which has saved thirty thousand lives since its inception. that's thirty thousand smiles and sixty thousand hands, maybe a hundred thousand dreams. is there anyone in the council today, in the political centre, who is prepared to work with ngos to uphold the values of the european union?
president, ladies and gentlemen, here at the european union's ruling party, in 2014 we came in with an unprecedented number of meps who were critical of the eu and whom you, out of deference and with a certain disgust, called populists. you proposed to do things differently, less european union, less federalism, less centralism. what we have seen for five years is the opposite, an explosion of federalism, further centralisation, ever closer union. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. it looks like 2019 will be a confrontation of those new and those old times. that is why i am sending a message to mr juncker and, in fact, to his entire commission and to the new couple of merkel and macron who want to continue to hold us hostage to this strategy, and i say it in the words of mr aznavour: "you must know how to leave the table when love is serving, without clinging, the air pitiful but leaving without making a noise". "you must know how to leave the table when love is serving, without clinging, without looking pitiful, but leaving without making a noise".
the european commission has put forward a concrete project. the strengthening of the external borders of the european union with ten thousand additional border guards and coastguards and i think we can say that the european parliament is ready to make that proposal operational quickly, to give the green light quickly. we are counting on you, madam president, to promote this proposal in the european council of ministers. some in this house and some outside it are not interested in a solution at all. they want to keep shouting that this is a continent without borders, that the back door is open and so on, selling this nonsense. but you, madam minister, have a wonderful opportunity now to send a clear and unambiguous signal to the europeans, a clear signal that europe does protect the citizens and the people and clearly deserves the trust of the citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, madam president, the european union is hammering home the need to respect human rights. the work undertaken by the united nations over the last four years - it should be remembered, commissioner - is aimed at establishing a binding instrument to regulate the activities of transnational corporations and all enterprises in general. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and my colleague, lola sánchez caldentey, who insisted that today's debate should be concluded by a vote on a resolution. the best way to help the un move this debate forward is to support the obviously binding nature of these regulations. this is essential for the credibility of the european union as a global actor. the question is, ladies and gentlemen, essentially political. we must be consistent with the models developed in the past. i would remind you that there has been considerable progress on the conflict minerals dossier, the regulation on wood and wood products, the regulation on the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemical substances and the restrictions applicable to these substances. so, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is both a legislative power and an economic power. as such, it must position itself as a leader in the dissemination of good practice and in the development of global standards. the commission and the council have no right, mr commissioner, madam president, to withdraw from this debate, and that is why i would like you to clarify your position on the mandate. the absence of binding rules too often allows for humanly unacceptable deviations. (the president cut off the speaker) i am a strong supporter of the market economy but the market economy is not always spontaneously virtuous, i think we should remember that.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). maybe not so much about the united states. it's about the decisions of one man, president trump, his unilateral decisions and the negative consequences of those decisions. first, and we all know that, was the decision to move the american embassy to jerusalem. then there was the decision to cut off some of the financial aid to unrwa and finally to implement the complete cut-off. if the state finances one third of an organisation and decides to unilaterally stop funding it, colleagues, and mr de belder, you are not doing so to encourage reform. that's bullshit. i know. you're doing it because you want to shut down the organization. and when he took office, we all remember, president trump said, "i want to work on the ultimate deal". his actions, on the other hand, seem more partisan. recently he expressed his support for a two-state solution, but how? the conclusions i draw from his actions are that by disadvantaging one party he is trying to get them back to the negotiating table. "leverage", as you might hear him say. now, if president trump thinks that's how he's going to go down in history as the person who's going to implement a two-state solution, he's completely wrong. because unrwa, ladies and gentlemen, and the commissioner has said it, is fundamental to the future palestinian state. it is responsible for the education of the children, for the food parcels, for the health care of the palestinian refugees. that is why i am glad, commissioner, that europe is taking its responsibility. that we've filled a hole in the wall. but there are three things we have to keep doing. one, continue to show commitment to the palestinian refugees. secondly, to assist unrwa in the necessary reforms. and three, of course, on speaking terms, to remain with the united states of america. they must help to bring about that two-state solution.
mr president, everyone has said it: yemen has been the scene of a terrible conflict for four years and the images that are reaching us are not lying. eviscerated babies, too weak to cry. officially, 8.4 million people are already at risk of famine. it's actually a real humanitarian disaster, a real "lost generation" growing up there, a lost generation. younger children who are actually being recruited to be child soldiers, who are vulnerable to abuse. in fact, yemen is a real breeding ground for recruitment by terrorist organizations. commissioner hahn, we must raise our voices, everyone here is asking for it, loud and clear, united as europe. let's stop the recruitment of child soldiers. where is the arms embargo on saudi arabia? what is the european strategy for yemen? where is the european pressure against the continuing blockade? let's make this work.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this is an absolutely crucial file and that’s why, mr commissioner, we need more ambition than the commission proposal offers – to make sure that we can get our climate goals, but also to make sure that we can reduce the cost for consumers and improve the air quality in our member states. some, like mr gieseke, argue that increased ambition will lead to a loss of jobs. well, it’s not the case. the commission’s own impact assessment states that with a 40% reduction, total eu employment will increase by 69 000 to 92 000 jobs. in any case, colleagues, regardless of electrification, if you look at what will go on in the sector on everything that is to do with automation and digitalisation, fundamental changes need to occur in the sector. that’s why i am so proud that, under the leadership of ms dalli, there are many issues on just transition within the proposal of the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi) that we should all support. what workers should be really be afraid of is that we lose out in the automotive sector; we lose our leadership on technology. ms dalli mentioned it already. why are european car manufacturers making so much effort in china to make electric cars and not do so within europe? what do we want? to be left with all technology that is killing our people because of the effect on climate and air quality? that’s why we need to have ambition. it’s encouraging to see that not just in the progressive forces in this parliament, but also in the council, there’s an increasing amount of membership that wants to improve the targets in this regulation. that’s why i’m really saddened that ms merkel, whom i respect a lot and who used to be a climate chancellor, will now miss her national climate targets by 2020 and 2030 by putting the brakes on this ambitious legislation. so please, let’s vote tomorrow on the envi proposal.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. we support at least 40% less co2 and 40% new green cars by 2030. this is indeed essential in the fight against climate change, but also for the air quality in our cities and our municipalities. and when you put your proposal to the vote last year, i did not hide my disappointment in the chamber, and i stand by my position: weak co2 standards are undermining climate goals. my own member state must reduce its co2 emissions by 35% by 2030. without the necessary technology to reduce co2 at source, this will not be possible and we fully support the demand for a technology-neutral greening of the new fleet. this is an important link in attracting investment, in stimulating innovation and in improving air quality. our citizens have a right to clean air. if the european union is to compete with china, our manufacturers must offer a sufficient number of low- and zero-emission cars. we need to invest in that, not in some bogus software to circumvent the standards. i hope we've learned our lesson after dieselgate.
i think we can all agree, mr president, that the transport sector must reduce its co2 emissions drastically. we signed the paris climate agreement and i think we should now live up to our promises. the 30% reduction proposed by the commission is therefore an absolute minimum. and we are prepared as a group to go a step further, to increase that ambition considerably. we need to get the heat under control. we have no choice. but in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, we must of course drive and look, as they say. in other words, to ensure that the price of cars does not rise too quickly, because that would of course have a negative effect. and as mr leinen rightly pointed out, we must ensure that the negative effects on employment are also taken into account and that they are reduced. in short, ladies and gentlemen, a more ambitious reduction would be a very good thing to do, to send the signal to other continents too that we want to put our words into action and also continue to take the lead in tackling the climate problem. i therefore assume that this is feasible, that this is reasonable and that we can reach a good agreement on this in the short term, together with parliament, the council and the commission.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, in theory taxation principles are not that difficult. a company pays corporation tax in the country where it makes its profits and indirect taxes such as vat go into the treasury of the country where it is consumed. but the reality, unfortunately, says something quite different. these seemingly simple principles are not so easy to apply in practice. in fact , i 'm not . tax revenues disappear through windows and doors. profits made in european member states are funneled to tax havens through not very ingenious structures. vat carousels will be used to charge vat to third parties, which will then be put into their own pockets instead of being paid into the treasury where they should have been. in the case of vat fraud, we can no longer speak of loopholes in the net. it's so common and it's so widespread that we just don't see it because of the maze. each year, the member states of the union collectively collect over eur 1 000 billion in vat revenue, but that could and should be much more. in 2016, the difference between the revenues and the final revenues was about 147 billion euros, we already heard the figure tonight. for my country, belgium, this amounts to 3.3 billion euros. i repeat: the amount of the loan is eur 3.3 billion. the fight against vat fraud, ladies and gentlemen, requires political courage and european action. it is hard to explain why we in europe have been working for 24 years on a kind of transitional regime for crossborder transactions between companies. for 24 years, the vat carousels have been running amok, costing the european member states 50 billion euros. every year. so it's not 5 before 12, it's not 5 after 12, lunch is actually long over. the definitive vat regime is really necessary for this, not only because of the public outrage following the panama and paradise papers, but also and above all because of the moral injustice. newspapers are rife with divisions in europe and lost legitimacy. it's time to act.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, romania has, in my opinion, not one but two problems: yes, widespread corruption; and also, mr timmermans, a secret service out of hand, a state within the state. the nub of my message today is that both problems need to be tackled, and that romania has to end the bad tradition of what was the securitate, a secret service instrumentalised by one side of the political establishment to hit the other side. this has to stop, prime minister. also, a totally inappropriate reaction – weakening the fight against high-level corruption, undermining even the prosecution of it – is the way that orbán and kaczyński lead their countries. that is not the way that we liberals should govern. not in our name and certainly not with our name! so, may i give you one piece of advice, prime minister? don’t follow the bad hungarian and polish examples. embrace fully the remarks and recommendations of the venice commission and let them systematically review your legislative proposals, because the fight against corruption must be strengthened and not weakened, and the independence of the courts must be guaranteed and not undermined. and, yes, the murky power of the new-old securitate definitely needs to be broken. the one is not in contradiction with the other.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would ask the prime minister just to look at the approval. jüri, everybody praises you and finds estonia fantastic, a magnificent country. i always say yes, that’s normal, it’s because the liberals are always in power – naturally – in estonia! you, with the centre party, you are even leading the opposition with the reform party. so i think the fact that everything is so good in estonia has something to do with the strong position of our two liberal parties. but i don’t have to say that as you are better aware of it than me. i want to come to another point – and it is the last time that i will come back to this – which is what mr hunt said about the comparison between the european union and the soviet union. you have to know that the two first reactions didn’t come from us. the two first reactions game from the lithuanian commissioner, and came from the latvian ambassador, by the way, in the uk. i think that is not by accident. they explained how the soviets killed, deported, exiled, imprisoned hundreds of thousands of baltic citizens, especially also estonian citizens. they both explained how, in contrast, the european union brought their countries prosperity, equality, growth, respect. i think that both of them gave mr jeremy hunt a stark lesson in history in 200 characters, so to speak. that is exactly, also, what you said in your intervention, jüri, here in parliament: the baltic states, more than anyone else, i should say, in the european union, needs a united europe, a strong europe, more united than today and stronger than today. a europe that is also capable – let’s be very clear about this – to stand up against vladimir putin, because if you look a little bit at the last decade in the european union, we have seen a decade of russian aggression. the list is long – the partial occupation of georgia, the annexation of crimea, the war in eastern ukraine, the shooting down of mh 17, the cyberattacks against our institutions, against the german bundestag even, the money laundering through our banks, the chemical attacks in salisbury. it’s a long list in one decade. so what is next? next may be to corrupt our ballot boxes in the elections in 2019. that is the most important point that you have made, jüri, in your intervention, for the moment, our only response is in fact sanctions, and then there are the counter measures by putin, and everything goes on and on and on. i think that will be not enough in the future and certainly not enough also to defend the sovereignty of all our european countries. i think that we need something more powerful, which is credibility in foreign policy and credibility in our defence policy, in our defence capabilities. a little bit in the words of theodore roosevelt who said ‘speak softly but carry a big stick’. that was his opinion. we in europe for the moment are doing exactly the opposite. we preach loudly on human rights, on democracy, but we carry no stick at all, in europe, not even a small twig i should say. so, my appeal to you – and in your intervention you have mentioned this – is that the first thing we do when we talk about the future of europe, is to stop and abandon naivety and our self—imposed weakness and to show you have to build up a position of power. that means a lot of things. first of all to abolish the unanimity rule in the council. certainly in the field of foreign policy. you cannot have a foreign policy if you continue with the unanimity rule. defence capabilities. let’s build a european defence community, with intelligence services that are capable and have the instruments and giving also, for example, to europol a real mandate and not what it is today – a post box between member states, but to make it a real federal police force that can conduct investigations on the whole european territory. that’s my conclusion. peace through strength, you know this word. peace through strength – that is how the west brought down the soviet union in 1991. well peace through strength is what our union needs again today. thank you, jüri, because in your interventions and proposals you have led the way.
for the verts/ale group dear prime minister ratas, welcome back to the european parliament! mr president, i would say to the prime minister that it is always a pleasure for us to engage in dialogue with representatives of the baltic states. estonia was the last of the three to complete its first presidency of the council. prime minister, your work, like that of your predecessors, demonstrated not only your strong commitment to our common goals, but also that leadership qualities do not depend on the size of the member state. nowadays, it has become too commonplace to hear a parallel being drawn between the european union and the defunct soviet union. even though i was lucky enough not to have been born under soviet rule, these comments are really outrageous to us. but not nearly as much though, as to those who had to endure occupation by the red army. i am grateful to all those that guy mentioned in central and eastern europe who are fiercely standing up against this malignant propaganda. no european member state is immune against the rise of the logic of us against them and the drift away from pluralist democracy and the rule of law. estonia is no exception, but we are with you in fighting against a polarization of society and in defending the principles of equality and social inclusion. before being economic and monetary, our union is one of values and giving up on them means giving up on the european dream. in that respect, the council cannot ignore the european parliament's call to launch article 7 proceedings not against hungary, but against measures taken by the current hungarian government. beyond our shared fundamental values, the very idea of the european union is to build the world's first transnational democracy, one in which we resolve all differences and find common ground through negotiation and compromise, rather than through conflict. and yes, prime minister, we have differences with you. we are disappointed that estonia is still among the oecd's most carbonintensive economies as it still produces the vast majority of its energy from shale oil, with disastrous results in terms of emissions and toxic waste. at the same time, a significant share of your country's forest resources have already been irresponsibly and unsustainably depleted, most often to get some quick cash. sadly, we see similar developments elsewhere in europe, like in białowieża in poland and hambach in germany. you also like to highlight the potential of the digital revolution, or transformation as you call it, for future welfare, and i will agree with you that we should not shy away from innovation. however, we should keep in mind the significant risks this revolution carries in terms of civil liberties or, again, ecological impact. indeed, far from being dematerialised, the digital universe is hungry for scarce resources whose extraction proves very damaging for the environment. in our view, it is absolutely vital for the european union to become a world leader in the ecologically and socially just transition of our economies. of course, the fight against climate change demands it, but our jobs, our balance of payment, our strategic independence and our competitiveness depend on it. giving up on this objective also means giving up on the european dream.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe we often talk about the added value of cooperation, in the knowledge that some problems can only be solved at union level. well, this file is a prime example of that. in 2010, some €110 billion, or almost 1% of european gdp, was spent on criminal activities. between 2010 and 2014, we were able to freeze only 2.2 percent of that and confiscate barely 1.1 percent. the reason for this is not that the competent authorities are not making sufficient efforts, and certainly not that we cannot use the money. the real reason is obvious: lack of cooperation. terrorism and organised crime operate across borders. thanks to this legislation, our judiciary will soon do the same. dear colleagues, tomorrow we will close the grid.
president, ladies and gentlemen, today terrorists and criminals can still too easily funnel their proceeds through the eu, with the result that barely one per cent of the proceeds of crime can be taken out of criminal hands. this is a very sad figure. to eradicate terrorism, it is crucial that we dry up the sources of funding. this is an area where the eu can and must really prove its added value. the only way we can win the war on terror is if we all join hands. the wave of attacks has clearly demonstrated the need for further european cooperation in this area. i therefore fully support this new european measure which obliges the member states to cooperate more closely in freezing and confiscating criminal goods. this is a positive development in the european legislative framework which contributes to the development of a safety culture in europe.
president. - the title of this debate says it all. so there doesn't seem to be a refugee crisis in europe, which is not true. what the hell are we doing, fellas? are we blind to the fact that war refugees - including countless women, children, elderly and wounded - are left behind begging on the streets of beirut or prostituting themselves in jordan? and what do you do? you are trying to facilitate the uncontrolled and continuous influx of economic migrants, mainly unskilled. it is incomprehensible that ngo boats continue to pick up migrants just off the coast of north africa and then sail towards europe instead of to a safe port in the region. in this way, people will continue to take risks, resulting in tragic drownings. we must stop the uncontrolled economic migration to europe. we have to build on the australian model. i hope that the european council will give a boost to the idea of disembarkation platforms outside the union, because a rescue operation which no longer automatically results in an asylum application in europe will be highly dissuasive. people will think twice about it. at the same time, the smugglers are losing their source of income. only in this way can we bring migration under control again, which will increase the support of the citizens for the real refugees.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the it puts belarus a mere 155th on the world press freedom index, which is a list of countries that have banned the use of the internet. as europe's last dictator, lukashenko still holds the media firmly in his grip after 24 years, and he does not tolerate critical journalism. this was also the case in the aftermath of the peaceful mass protests that erupted in february 2017. 700 people were imprisoned, 100 of them journalists, and the harassment of independent media continues to this day. let's not be naive. lukashenko is not interested in reforms. the rapprochement he seeks with the west is linked to his greed for more money, more power, more recognition. he just chooses eggs for his money. lukashenko only understands plain language. as long as the freedom of the press is not respected, there can be no question of rapprochement.
president. - i call mr pimenta to speak on behalf of the group of the european people's party. who can stop them? the opening verse of one of germany's oldest protest songs against the suppression of freedom. the chinese leaders should know that thoughts cannot be imposed and yet that is exactly what they are trying to do in the xinjiang region with their witch-hunt on everything that is not chinese. uighurs and kazakhs are being arbitrarily and en masse detained in political re-education camps. they are brainwashed until they are cured of their ideological disease and their minds are purified. outside the camp walls, people are also intimidated, isolated, spied on. behind china's opening to the world is a ruthless state apparatus. despite the many agreements and dialogues and meetings, the country still toils at the bottom of the human freedom index. the eu has a duty to ask the chinese authorities in clear terms to stop the persecution, to release the prisoners, to close the camps. because, mr president, thought is free and no government can prevent it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we of course fully support this request. i would like us to avoid, collectively, giving the impression that we are interested in the case of saudi arabia when a journalist is killed in a particularly brutal way, obviously forgetting the whole context, namely that this is a country that supports the most violent and fundamentalist terrorist groups, a country that has decided, against all the rules of international law, to banish another country - qatar - from society, and a country that is waging a completely intolerable war in yemen. i hope that the debate will put the whole situation in perspective so that we do not give the impression that we are suddenly becoming indignant when someone, who is so respectable, is murdered in a very brutal way. germany has recently indicated that it will draw conclusions from this brutal murder. i think that other countries in the european union and the union as a whole would be well inspired to follow this example, in particular france and belgium.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i will not take up much of our collective time. i support the proposal that mrs rodrigues has just made. can i insist, mr president, that you ask the representatives of the ecb (european central bank), esma (european securities and markets authority) and eba (european banking authority), the supervisory bodies, to at least be present at the debate? they have an important role to play if we are to provide a solution to the problems raised by the cumex revelations.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it has been mentioned before that the world’s leading scientists warned us only two weeks ago that we dramatically have to step up our efforts worldwide and also in europe. they also made very clear what the difference is between 1.5 and 2 degrees. some will point out – rightly – that the coral reefs will disappear, but as a social democrat, i really want to outline what the effect will be on people and on our societies. we risk major humanitarian catastrophes and climate conflicts, triggering new waves of climate refugees, for instance, and we risk a rise in human suffering all over the world. it is very important that we as europe take up our responsibilities, and we need to step up our reduction targets for 2030, but, commissioners – in the plural – we need also to ensure climate neutrality for 2050. that is why we as a group urge the commission to come up with an updated 2050 strategy that is really paris-proof.
yes, climate change and biodiversity loss, they are two global crises that are closely intertwined. how humanity deals with it now will determine the health, the well-being, the prosperity of future generations. investing in nature and biodiversity must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe. in fact, in addition to the overwhelming intrinsic value of nature, biodiversity offers invaluable socioeconomic benefits. it is more than two and a half years since we approved my report on biodiversity here in this house. although the commission has taken a number of initiatives - and the commissioner has referred to them - there is still no structural progress. without additional efforts, we will miss the 2020 targets. the commission is also worryingly silent on a post-2020 strategy. however, on climate policy, the co-legislators have only just agreed on an ambitious legislative framework by 2030. and ambition is necessary, but we also like to combine that with realism. of course, everything can always be improved, but to call these agreements which have just been made insufficient is neither serious nor realistic.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group strongly supports the guidelines and priorities proposed by our general rapporteur, mr viotti. we support the priority given to investment, research and innovation, and the increase in funding to support smes, in particular the cosme programme. we support the strengthening of youth resources through additional funding for erasmus and the continuation of the youth employment initiative. we want much more money to be spent on combating global warming. the ipcc has just issued a solemn warning: it is urgent that our planet remains habitable and manageable. we also want, of course, to see additional resources for border control, the management of migration flows, cooperation between police forces and the fight against terrorism. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize three points. i think that mr erdoğan should be given a very clear warning in view of his autocratic frenzy. i therefore support the reduction in pre-accession funds for turkey, but i do not contest the request for 3 billion for refugees. the unrwa, the un agency for palestinian refugees, must be strengthened. we will not help achieve peace by depriving hundreds of thousands of palestinian children of schooling. mr. trump is wrong and his mistakes must be corrected.
mr president, i think we are at an important juncture. do we have the courage to make choices? we are not going to be able to do that. cut out the things she doesn't do well, so we can free up money to invest in new priorities? what do i set for next year's budget? the best incentive to be frugal is to ensure that the european budget does not grow ever larger. the european parliament nevertheless proposes to put an additional 721 million in that european budget in addition to the commission's proposal. secondly, we should listen to the experts, the european court of auditors. what are they saying? that we need real objectives based on european added value. what are we seeing? in this budget, inflation is again a constant inflation of ever new objectives. is it all bad news? no, i'm not going. there are also good things in this draft budget: i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. very important, but please let it be something more with a little more ambition.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner vella, ladies and gentlemen, this is a good story. in the mid-1950s, plastic, invented a century earlier, was a revolution. an invention that changed everything, i must say, that changed products, that changed quantities and that changed our behaviour, with the advent of the disposable. today, this story is turning into a nightmare: 8 billion tonnes produced in less than 65 years for 6 billion tonnes of waste. the figures are telling: over 400 000 tonnes a year for europe alone. everywhere, the oceans have become our ultimate garbage and they're dying from it. images are being circulated in all the media: our beaches disfigured by garbage, cormorants suffocated by plastic bags, sea turtles whose stomachs are colonized by pieces of plastic ... these images are unbearable. the commission is therefore proposing to cover the ten single-use plastic items most commonly found on our beaches, plus fishing gear, which together account for 70% of marine litter. and the 51 members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety who supported my report in the vote, have a realistic objective - i want to stress this - which is to ban this single-use plastic where a sustainable alternative exists, such as paper, bamboo, glass, cornstarch, etc. at the same time, this will stimulate innovation and create jobs in europe. the commission goes so far as to speak of 50 000 jobs. it also involves a series of progressive measures, an obligation, especially for producers, to take responsibility, the labelling of certain products that are difficult to recycle, awareness campaigns and, of course, ambitious measures to reduce the consumption of certain articles. as rapporteur, i wanted to raise the level of ambition of the commission's proposal with the fictitious rapporteurs, whom i will not name here but whom i would like to thank very sincerely for the excellence of our cooperation. to this end, we have added three products to the original list of prohibited products - this one is known - cotton buds, straws, plates, cutlery, and towels. we add in this case expanded polystyrene packaging, which is found in fast food, oxidized bags, which break down under the influence of light and therefore contribute to marine pollution, and ultralight bags, i.e. those bags of less than 15 microns, while maintaining a derogation mainly for hygiene reasons. i would like to make a small comment on this: i clearly do not share the view of some of my colleagues who, by deleting and derogating from the text, attack the very heart of our text and try to save the plates and cutlery made in southern italy or the german balloons. i would like to make it clear that the text does not in any way provide for the banning of balloons and the attack, as i read today, on the enjoyment of children. this type of argument is euroscepticism. that is not in the text and i shall return to that text. where we have not banned, we propose a robust legal framework, a timetable to reduce the consumption of food containers and cups; the ppe tabled an amendment in plenary to reduce consumption of these two products by 25% immediately, which i fully support. the signal sent to the member states is the right one. i am opposed to amendment no 122 which completely exempts smes until 2023 and opens the way, of course, to all legal abuse and optimisation. as regards plastic bottles, we are adding to the separate collection target of 90% a target of 35% recycled content collection by 2025, and some of the industry's leaders are already there. for fishing gear, nets, ropes, etc., which are responsible for 27% of marine pollution, this is a priority. i am reinforcing the commission's text by drawing on the best practices we have from norway and iceland, experts if there are any. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has also supported my wish to include the fight against environmental damage from tobacco in this report. i'm obviously referring to the plastic filters in cigarettes, which are cellulose acetate. an ambitious reduction target: minus 50% by 2025, minus 80% by 2030, and finally we confirm the responsibility of producers under the polluter-pays principle. in conclusion, mr president, the people expect us to adopt the most ambitious legislation against single-use plastics on wednesday. it is now, ladies and gentlemen, that we must make this choice for the environment, for the generations that follow us and also for the millions, the tens of millions of europeans who are mobilized, who are watching us and who are ready to consume differently.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. disposable plastic ends up in nature and the environment in large quantities, out here, along the side of the road, in the berms, in the locks and rivers and finally in our seas, resulting in the familiar plastic soup. indeed, if we don't act, commissioner, there will be more plastic in our seas than fish by 2050. so we need to turn the wheel. we need to make a full commitment to sustainable and responsible management of plastics throughout the value chain. we agreed on this last month when we voted overwhelmingly in favour of my own-initiative report. this week we have the opportunity to put our words into action and to approve this proposal. and for me, the following three points are essential: one, there will be a tailored approach. not all products are shaved over the same comb. two, the producers must contribute to the cleanup of plastic litter, including cigarette butts. three single-use plastic beverage bottles must contain 35% recycled plastic by 2025 and 90% must be collected separately. i understand that the focus is first on those products which are most commonly found on our european beaches, but for me a general strategy for disposable products remains a necessary next step. i can only thank mr ries and the other shadow rapporteurs. the compromise we have reached is balanced and i will support it to the fullest.
the commission has already taken action on this. mr. president, i'm not sure anymore, i have 30 seconds is that it? i'll be there soon then. on biodegradable plastics, i have here a report from the united nations, the title of which is: "biodegradable plastics, a false solution to marine pollution". this is a study by the united nations. plastics labelled as biodegradable do not degrade easily or quickly in the oceans, most plastics labelled as bio will only degrade from a certain temperature, 50 degrees at least, which will never be reached in the depths of an ocean ... (the president withdrew the floor)
i'm the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner once again for confirming this commitment of the commission, a commitment both collegial and personal. we know the names of some of its members, i am thinking of mr vella who is with us tonight, but also of vice-president timmermans and mr katainen. i shall return to one point only, namely biodegradability, which has been mentioned several times and which some of my colleagues believe is the solution. this is clearly not the way to go, as the aim is not to replace one plastic with another plastic. furthermore, there is no reliable or even official standard in the marine environment. i should like - i will put it this way - not to thank president wieland: i must say that in 20 years of being here i have never seen a president interrupt a rapporteur at the last second of his speaking time. i asked a question, the sound will be the proof, i asked a question at the end of my blue card, as well as mrs auken. you have unfairly deprived me of the opportunity to question my colleagues on certain specific points. that was unfair, mr president, and it was biased. in conclusion - no, i can't conclude any more, but that's okay - i'll have told you what i had to say about the way you conduct the debates.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, about six months ago, we were all surprised, angry or full of disbelief at the massive data leak at facebook. this was the start of several investigations, including in this parliament, which sent a clear signal: such intrusions into our privacy are unacceptable. however, in september, a new data breach at the tech giant came to light. a software glitch allowed hackers to access millions of user accounts, including five million european accounts. this resolution was a good opportunity to condemn this injustice and to call for further action. unfortunately, the resolution is going in all directions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. or they call for the adaptation of national electoral laws, which is clearly a matter for the member states. the key word this resolution needs in this fight is focus. focus on the exact problem we're dealing with. it's the only way we as legislators can make a difference.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the first time that i went to your country, president iohannis, to bucharest, was in december 1989 in one of those old tarom airplanes. i have to tell you, it was torture. with no leg-room, it was a little bit like flying with ryanair today. for me it was the first time that i went to a communist country, because before the fall of the berlin wall, we liberals were not allowed to go. in bucharest – i remember it very well – i met the historical leader of the romanian liberals, radu-anton câmpeanu, in an empty building, in an empty office with one table and one chair. he had just returned from exile in paris in december 1989. when i came back here, what i did was immediately to send a truck full of office furniture and computers. a few months later these capitalist gifts were destroyed by a furious mob of miners, the henchmen of iliescu. so i had to send a second truck to romania to help mr câmpeanu build up his liberal and democratic movement. not only did i send office furniture and computers, i also sent material for a radio station that became one of the first private radio stations in your country – radio contact – with the same name as a station in belgium. the reason why i’m telling you this story is very simple, because today, so many years later – nearly 30 years later – i am again worried about what is happening in romania. first of all, these dubious reforms were undermining the judiciary – i said that to your prime minister here a few weeks ago. the same applies to the weakening of the criminal code, undermining the fight against corruption. then there was the discovery of secret protocols, which i have never heard about in any other country, between the secret service on the one hand and some parts of the judiciary on the other. my plea to the prime minister, but also to you – because you have to work together in this respect – is certainly not to follow that path in the near future and certainly not to follow the examples of countries like poland and hungary, which have embarked on illiberal paths, i should say, towards autocracy. i think that only good cooperation between you, as the president of the romanian republic, and the prime minister, the government and the majority can avoid this. and i think there is huge support in this house to support you in this endeavour. so what we need, i think, exactly 30 years after the romanian revolution, at european level is exactly what is also at stake in romania. there will be, in 2019, a fight between liberal democracy and the tendency in a number of countries – unfortunately mainly eastern european countries – to go the way of illiberal autocracy. it will be a fight between tolerance and racism, a fight of openness against protectionism, and a fight by all the – i should say – true europeans against all the kinds of narrow-minded nationalists and populists that we have seen in the four corners of europe. and i think that, just as it did in 1989, romania will have an important role to play in winning the fight in 2019. this also gives me the opportunity to come back to the debate on the future of the union. if there is one real reform to be made for the future of the european union, mr president, then it is to get rid of the unanimity rule in the european union. look again at the khashoggi case that we have today. on saturday all the ministers of foreign affairs, together with mogherini, produced what? a weak condemnation, a soft declaration instead of common action, which is impossible because of the unanimity rule in foreign affairs. what is needed is not a soft declaration or a weak condemnation; what is needed is a ban – a european ban – on exports of weapons to saudi arabia. that is what is needed and it can be achieved only... (applause)... and this is what i want to hear in this debate about the future of europe – if we get rid of the unanimity rule, if we can get rid – and romania is ready to do so – of this veto power, this veto right that all member states still cherish, but which is in fact the real obstacle to a re-foundation of the european union. and i’m pleased that romania and the president will be on our side in this fight for that reform.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are in full swing towards the end of the legislature. a union that listens better to its citizens. it was just a few fine words at the start of this commission, because backroom politics was the thread running through the policy of this commission. you spent taxpayer money on expensive pamphlets in hopes of winning souls. just think of the free train tickets and the free wi-fi. you wasted precious time on useless proposals such as transnational lists. money and time you could have spent on what the public really cares about: the european union has a long-term strategy to reduce migration, ensure our security and create a job-friendly environment. your final year of policy is about to begin. your last chance to put your full weight behind the real priorities: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament. we have also been and continue to be a party to calls for more support for erasmus+ and research, and for more cooperation on climate and defence. i hope that this time it will not be empty words and that you can give some proof that you are taking the concerns of the citizens to heart.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr vice-president, thank you for your speech, which was as usual concise. the commission is not to be blamed for wanting to deliver results, and that is to your credit. the question i put to you is this: you are witnessing, as i am, a growing disaffection of many of our citizens with the construction of europe, whereas you and i know that it is an essential element in the exercise of our democratic sovereignty. do you think that it is by continuing to work, by doing a little more of the same, or by working incrementally that we will revive the european enthusiasm of those of our fellow citizens who have lost it? i think what we really need is a paradigm shift. i agree with you that it is not on the eve of an election that a paradigm shift is undertaken, but on certain points the commission has made proposals, i am thinking in particular of the euro, which i think are up to the challenge; the council must follow. i think, however, that we need something much more solid. in reality, our reading of things is that our societies are threatened by two time bombs: on the one hand, growing inequalities and, on the other, an ecological footprint that exceeds what our planet can support. so clearly we need a paradigm shift, a reorientation of the policies of the european union, and instead i have to see that the traditional political families here in the european parliament and in the council are essentially continuing in the same direction. i listened to you very carefully, mr szájer, when you said that we must put the package together on the question of security and migration. i have noticed that these concerns, although important, are not the first priority for our fellow citizens. you are still following the same path as your bavarian friends, but i see that their voters have left them by battalions, to the extremes for some - because in fact, by imitating them you strengthen them - and for those who were disgusted by this development, for the greens, and i think their choice was the right one.
the commission has already taken action on this. germany has been united for about 150 years and reunified for about a quarter of a century. despite this long history, germany is still an economically heterogeneous country today, so what holds germany together is massive financial transfers between the richest regions of the country and the poorest regions of the country. these transfers use the taxation channel, the federal budget channel, the federal social security channel and the voice of the finanzausgleich. that's what holds germany together. explain to me how we could do without these mechanisms, which are indispensable for german unity, in the context of european unity. i still don't know what that means.
president, mr vice-president of the commission, last year of office. you could say we're going to go on a little bit longer or you could say no, we're going to put the lights on for the next legislature. that's kind of my plea today. we know that we need to radically reform our economy. we know that we have to make radically different choices for the future. the good news is, the script is actually ready for that. we didn't write that in europe. we have written that at the united nations level, with the so-called sustainable development goals. we as a group will totally embrace it. for us, it's almost become the bible. we're going to have to implement it, and that means very concrete things. we need to get out of coal, we need to get out of fossil fuels, but we also need to stop the race to the bottom of wages and working conditions for our workers, and we need to reverse that and we need to focus on social issues. but - and that is my point, and my plea today - we know what we have to do, but in the area of governance in the european union we do not have the means to do it. we are still stuck in that stability and growth pact, that european semester, linked to narrow budgetary objectives. budgetary objectives are meaningful if they are linked to social objectives. it would therefore be good if the commission were to come forward with a proposal to radically change the european semester and to apply the sustainable development objectives. this means that budgetary objectives are not more important than social or environmental objectives. in particular, a common approach and the setting of binding conditions in our governance is an essential condition.
president, today the ports of eastern ukraine are empty. putin has decided to militarize the sea of azov, de facto taking over, after the illegal annexation of crimea. in recent months, putin has been seeking to re-ignite conflict with neighboring ukraine in order to further destabilize it. so after building the crimean bridge across the kerch strait, he feels it's time to expand his sphere of influence at sea. and time and time again, russia flouts every international rule. it is not a matter of concern to him that he is thus bringing the european union into conflict with himself. madam high representative, tensions are rising at the fragile back door of the european union. the slightest incident could set the fire. and the possible consequences for both ukraine and the european union are unfathomable. i found the debate interesting and i support the specific proposals made by colleagues such as rebecca harms. and i support you, madam high representative, in the pressure you are exerting on the russian federation, in any diplomatic pressure you are exerting there. i am counting on you to do so with the necessary determination and clarity.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. mr president, commissioner, as we have heard, the schengen information system is at the heart of security cooperation within the european union. the changes we are going to propose today are actually much needed to increase our security in the fight against terrorism. hence the use of facial recognition and fingerprinting. they're all necessary adjustments. but today i am particularly pleased with what my colleague, mr gérard deprez, has achieved. the preventive warnings for children at risk of parental abduction, child marriage or genital mutilation. this reform was badly needed. just like the reform we're implementing for the children in migration, for the children on the run. finally, it will be possible to use dna profiles to identify and track them more quickly. ladies and gentlemen, this third reform of the schengen information system will undoubtedly increase our security in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen information system is fully operational. this will increase the efficiency of the sis database in the areas of border surveillance, the follow-up of illegal returns and police cooperation. this database is also crucial for our security in the light of the free movement of persons within the schengen area. however, an evaluation revealed shortcomings ranging from quality problems, lack of training of police personnel to insufficient information on signalling and delays in the follow-up of hits. these proposals now address these shortcomings, but they go beyond mere cosmetic adjustments or technical improvements. now, individuals can only be searched in the database by their name or date of birth, for example. but in the future, criminals can be traced by their fingerprints. so much for identity fraud. it is also important that fingerprints found at the crime scene can be entered into the system. this is our way of increasing the chances of catching criminals on the run. a more efficient and user-friendly database is absolutely necessary to enable our police and border guards to do their jobs properly. together with the interoperability of databases by linking all kinds of databases, we are taking a new step forward in the fight against crime, human trafficking and terrorism. i therefore call on all the groups to vote in favour of these very necessary amendments. after all, safety is a matter for all of us.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, many european citizens and i are happy to enjoy freedom of movement in the european area. but what the public knows less about and what our two excellent rapporteurs, carlos coelho and jeroen lenaers, know perfectly well - and i would like to congratulate them - is the central role played by the schengen information system (sis) in guaranteeing this freedom. the necessary corollary of freedom of movement is effective control of external borders and increased cooperation between police forces within the european common space. commissioners avramopoulos and king, as well as jeroen lenaers, recalled the indisputable figures on the current effectiveness of the schengen information system. but this efficiency, however great it was, still had too many of the shortcomings we had pointed out. it therefore needed to be improved. that is what is proposed to our assembly in these three reports. firstly, member states will now have to enter an alert in the sis for any person involved in criminal or terrorist offences. europol will be informed immediately, allowing the rapid initiation of cooperation between european police forces. secondly, from now on, member states will have to enter an alert in the sis for any person who has been banned from residing in the european union. this is not the case at present and this considerably hampers the implementation of decisions to leave the territory. thirdly, member states will now be able to enter an alert in sis for missing children, children at risk of abduction, girls at risk of forced marriage or female genital mutilation. with these changes, ladies and gentlemen, the sis will no longer be just a repressive tool, which is still necessary, but will also become an effective means of protecting the most vulnerable people, which is something we should all be happy about. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. mr verhofstadt was absolutely right to do what he did, because in the case you mentioned, the reporting in the schengen information system by the polish authorities was a real diversion and that is why we did not accept it and granted a right of access to this person.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. thank you, mr president. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr valli, for the work he has put into this dossier. i would also like to thank the council for its presence. it was different once. i should like to go straight to what the president-in-office of the council has told us. there is indeed a non-paper since 2011. we have not given a concrete answer to that question for too long. when i was rapporteur, before mr valli, i took my responsibility and made sure that we got a reply to the council, supported unanimously by all the members of the committee on budgetary control and approved by the conference of presidents. in the meantime, there have indeed been talks between the president of the council and the austrian presidency, mrs grässle as chairman of the committee on budgetary control and myself as former rapporteur. i think we're on the verge of a solution. i think the document before us is really acceptable. i have only to call on my colleagues in the european parliament to take responsibility. it is the conference of presidents and the secretary-general of this parliament which must act now and ensure that we reach an agreement under the austrian presidency so that mr kohn, when he assumes responsibility as rapporteur, can do this discharge exercise with the council in a fair way.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr bullock, there's a flemish saying that goes: the pot blames the kettle for being black. you're a member of ukip. your party, your european party, has spent an incredible amount of money on community funds, and it has done so in a fraudulent way. you have even used european money with your party to fund opinion polls in the united kingdom. would you not also act according to your own judgment and deal fairly with european taxpayers' money?
- i'm the reporter. thank you, mr president. colleagues, commissioner, we postponed the discharge for easo in april, and i think we did the right thing. we had good reason to. there were comments from the court of auditors, there was an olaf investigation that was being launched, there was whistleblower information, and the then executive director of easo minimized all of the cases. the european parliament's attitude was wise, because the refusal to grant discharge led to action. during this whole period i was in close contact with the heads of dg home and i also had a number of talks with commissioner avramopoulos. i can honestly testify that the home office took matters into its own hands. pressure was put on the then executive director: who resigned in june. the commission decided to appoint a new director, a new interim executive director, mr jamil addou, as soon as possible. i met mr. addou at the beginning of july. we heard him in a closed session of the committee on budgetary control and i was impressed by his swift and decisive action. it is clear that the new leadership within easo has learned from the past. it is clear that the home office is now following the case closely. lessons are learned from past mistakes. it is clear that there was too much power in the hands of one person within easo. there were insufficient checks and balances. the commission is now acting pre-emptively, because it is dismissing a director-general or a deputy director-general of dg home from the existing management board at each meeting to ensure that the matter is decided correctly in a pre-emptive manner. there is better governance and on 17 september the management board approved a 16-page action plan. there are now logical decision mechanisms, predictable decision mechanisms and predictable decision lines. that is a positive political signal, and it is precisely for that reason that i propose to grant discharge to the new interim executive director. i have to admit: the final results of the olaf report are not yet available. i therefore urge olaf to continue its work intensively and to come quickly with conclusions and recommendations so that all irregularities are on the table, that there are recommendations, that there are conclusions, that this too can be cleared up. i would like to make an appeal to all my colleagues here tonight, both on the left and on the right. let's not play party politics on this one. let's not argue in the vacuum. easo is an important agency. easo must be able to work. easo will soon be transformed into an even stronger agency, with more resources, with more staff. let easo work with the current staff who now have confidence in the new interim executive director. let's just say that trust has been restored. let's honor that by giving a discharge to the new leadership. i would like to say to mr sarvamaa that it is not true that everything is now smooth sailing and that all the irregularities have been solved, but the political signal is that the commission, the home office and the new director-general have taken matters into their own hands. let's honor that. let us ensure that easo can indeed continue on the new path it has embarked upon.
- i'm the reporter. thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have spoken to me in such a positive way. it's always a relief after the work you put into a file. i can only repeat: i recommend, colleagues, that the discharge be granted. not because i don't acknowledge that irregularities have occurred. they're already there, they're ahead of us. this has been recognised by the commission, dg home and the easo management board. they took action, put pressure on the previous director, and he resigned. a new director has been appointed very quickly who makes a very good impression, who makes a strong impression, who takes action, who ensures that there are good lines of decision-making. the specialists in this parliament, led by mr moraes in the libe committee, have been looking at it and are also impressed by the new wind blowing within easo. if we grant discharge, colleagues, it does not mean that we are turning a blind eye to the facts. it just means we're sending a political signal. that we say: look, important steps have been taken. there's been progress. the case is more under control than it was in april. it is not a matter of looking away from the facts, because we have attached to our report a very strong resolution with a whole series of points which we say: this and that must be better. we are putting this dossier in the hands of mr sarvamaa, who will be the next rapporteur and who, with the facts that will be known in the meantime, such as the olaf report, will be able to force new measures on dg home, the commissioner, the management board and the new interim director. i hope that i can still find a majority in this parliament to grant that discharge.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to address mr kamall. i want to tell you something. i think that what you did was not very wise, and that you have to apologise, in fact, because talking about nazis as national socialists and pointing a finger at the socialist group is an insult to all those social democrats who fought against nazis,(applause)and who died in concentration camps. i think that would be the best step from your side. to ms grossetête, i say thank you very much for your comments. i think i agreed with you 100% – more even than when manfred weber takes the floor – and i think it is exactly the feeling of the house. why was it necessary to have a european council in october? nothing has been decided – not on brexit, that was expected; not on migration and the dublin system, no progress; not on the eurozone governments, no progress. first of all, on brexit, you know, we are now in the battle of the figures. prime minister may says 95% has been agreed. michel barnier says 90% is being agreed. i know that britain has always had difficulties with the metric system, but i have to tell you one thing: whether it is 90% or 95% or 99%, if there is no solution for the irish border, then as far as our parliament is concerned it is zero per cent that has been agreed for the moment. we need an agreement on this irish border, and the good friday agreement has to be protected. nevertheless, i continue to be optimistic. i think that a deal can be reached in the coming weeks, in the interest of the union and in the interest of the uk, and my question to you, mr tusk, is this: can you also make a decisive last push on citizens’ rights – that is, to offer unlimited onward movement for the british citizens who are living in the eu27, in exchange for a right of lifelong return to the uk for european citizens? i was in downing street, and they are ready to go for such a trade-off, and if you, with the council, were to push for such a solution, it is a trade off that is possible. so do that at least, for our citizens, so that they have no negative fallout from this brexit tragedy that we are living through today. (applause) that brings me to the second point for the council – namely migration. i will repeat, and i will say it not in french but in english, that i am very disappointed, as is ms grossetête. it is now four months since june when the council promised that an enormous package would be delivered. the transformation, for example, of frontex into a fully fledged european border and coast guard with 10 000 new agents – no agreement in the council on that. the reform of the dublin system – it was two years ago that the commission put the proposal on the table – again, no progress in the council. finally, my third complaint is about the lack of reform of the eurozone, including the banking union. it’s now more or less 10 years since the outbreak of the last financial crisis and we still have no governance system in place for the eurozone. nevertheless, we all know that there could be a next crisis, and this time maybe not in tiny, sunny greece but in the world’s eighth biggest economy, namely italy. we have not a single pension fund or investment company in the whole world today that does not hold italian bonds or securities. so, let there be no misunderstanding, i think that the attitude of the italian government in not following the rules of the stability and growth pact is completely irresponsible. but, at the same time, i’m also saying that a big share of the responsibility rests on our shoulders in relation to the strategy that is coming up. where is the new governance of the economic and monetary union to avoid the sort of free-riding behaviour that the new italian government wants to engage in now? where is the new minister of finance for the eurozone, who could stop such behaviour? where is the euro budget? where are the euro securities and, more urgently – if, in the coming months or year, this sovereign debt crisis should become a banking crisis – where is the resolution fund? how are we going to avoid the next bankruptcy in the eurozone, not only of the italian financial sector but also perhaps of the entire european financial sector? i really think that the attitude of your colleagues in the council today is dereliction of duty: sleepwalking to a new financial catastrophe that everybody can see before their eyes. i have one ultimate question, mr tusk, it’s not a question directly to you my dear donald, but you are responsible for it, and it concerns method. is this really the method that will deliver: the government leaders coming together four times a year for two days, and looking forward to getting back again quickly to their capitals? i think the method is wrong. you need to lock them in a meeting room – no new clothes, no new underwear … (comment from mr lambert ‘no food’) no food? no, that would be torture, that is something different, mr lambert. but it is necessary, mr tusk, that you change your method. i was with jean claude juncker in nice, and we worked for four days, and four nights until four o’clock in the morning, and we came out not with the best deal that we have ever done but at least having achieved something. today we are in the middle of a migration crisis. we face a new financial tragedy in the eighth biggest economy of the world, in italy, and our government leaders go home and say it was not possible to find an agreement on migration and on the dublin system; it was not possible to put in place new governance for the eurozone. that has to change. it’s not five minutes before midnight, mr tusk, it’s five minutes after midnight.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr tusk, i do not know whether you are interested in this, but we can always talk. the treaty on european union makes the european council the body which gives the necessary impetus to the development of the union and defines its general political priorities. the citizens of the union are therefore entitled to expect a certain political leadership from the 28 heads of state or government who make up the union. between climate change and growing inequalities, conflict and persecution at our borders, the threat of terrorism, the impact of the digital revolution and the exorbitant power of multinationals, it is hard to say that our union is facing existential challenges in a world where its friends are becoming scarcer. this is probably why the european council in october 2017 adopted a work programme, somewhat pompously called 'the leaders' agenda'. one year later, where are we? we welcome the adoption last spring of the declaration on the european pillar of social rights. although it is very much a statement of intent, it is worth recalling that human well-being is not limited to maximising the profit of a few. but apart from that, the leadership of the european council is still being sought and its meeting last week provided, once again, a sad example of this. on the question of brexit, the 27 heads of state and government cannot be held responsible for the failure, we are faced here with a british government caught in its own contradictions and a theresa may torn between the members of her majority and her party. until she cuts this gordian knot, no deal can be made. but on the other cases, no excuses for the leaders! asylum and immigration are two issues that have been on the agenda of all european council meetings for more than three years - with one exception - but the heads of state of the member states are still unable to agree on a common approach to the dignified reception of asylum seekers on our continent. the only common ground at the moment is to discharge their responsibilities to the neighbouring states of the european union. it is a year since this parliament found the political courage and creativity to propose common solutions on the same issue, in line with the values of the european union, and this is proof that a political agreement on this issue is indeed possible if there is political will. on the question of monetary union, the heads of state or government have not made any progress. how many times must we repeat that 'economic and monetary union is not viable' - i repeat, not viable - without budgetary union and therefore fiscal union and social union. here again, as tensions are being rekindled by the budgetary choices of the italian government, the 'leaders' remain in denial of reality. as an environmentalist, i would be tempted to make fun of co2 emissions and the brussels deadlock caused by yet another inconsequential european summit. but this lack of leadership is not without consequences. it is daily weakening the european union's ability to meet the challenges of our time and undermining its credibility. it seems that the conservatives, the christian democrats, the social democrats and the liberals who make up the council are proving less and less able to understand these challenges and are taking refuge in a choreography that has no impact on reality. is it any wonder that more and more of our citizens are choosing to look elsewhere for answers to their questions? of course, with nationalists of all stripes, but also, and i am glad to say, increasingly with environmentalists, as the recent elections in bavaria, belgium and luxembourg have shown, and who knows, perhaps in a few days in hesse.
i am personally opposed, on principle, to the european level exercising its guardianship over the social and economic policies of the member states. i think it is one of the great inhibiting factors in europe. but i want to thank you for one thing: i am sorry that you have, in the context of that custody, expressed a damning opinion on the socioeconomic policy of the kingdom of belgium. fortunately for the belgian prime minister, who called the assessment fake news, jean-claude juncker has helped to minimize the case, but the situation is serious. there is the nominal growth of net primary expenditure. the unacceptable debt ratio is now again well above 100%, namely 103.6%. the taxation is now among the highest in the oecd. despite the savings in social security and despite pensions which are among the lowest, the raising of the retirement age and of electricity, water and fuel prices, despite the energy policy of a third world country, belgium is underperforming. what's wrong with belgium? i 'll tell you what . it's a country that's split, two economies and two societies. artificially joining together what does not belong together is not good for the citizens, certainly not for the flemings.
mr president, this question is addressed directly to you. i have read in the press statements that you complain that a programme launched by the italian government would probably not benefit italians, but roma, foreigners. this kind of speech, if it is proved, is very similar to the speech of national preference that we are not used to hearing from the epp. whether it comes from the enl group or the efdd group, i can understand. but even if it comes from you, i think it poses a serious problem of respect for european values! so if you have said these words, i ask you to withdraw them, because they are not worthy of a president of parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. dear mr tusk, i am glad to hear you say that our government leaders have bent over backwards on a migration policy in all its aspects. i have read the council conclusions and i see only three elements in them: the union shall contribute to the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and return by: important issues, of course, but are these all aspects of a migration policy? what was it about addressing the root causes of migration? short-term asylum procedures? i don't know. spread out? relocation? what are you talking about? and most of all: what was the dramatic situation in the hotspots? these elements were still present in 2015 and 2016, and it is not because you are silent that the problems have disappeared. i would also like to draw your attention to the letter of 10 october from the rapporteurs of parliament to mr kurz. two and a half years after the commission published seven reform proposals, the council has not yet reached agreement on any of them. three provisional agreements with parliament were even withdrawn. how come this was not discussed at a meeting where, again, all aspects were discussed? the legislative period is coming to an end and without an agreement on these dossiers, the hard work of the past few years will be wasted. these are the aspects that should have been addressed.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i thank the plenary for its massive support for this important directive. and now i would like to invoke our rules of procedure, namely rule 59 (4), fourth subparagraph, to ask for the green light to refer the matter back to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and then to allow me to open the interinstitutional negotiations at the beginning of november.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. thank you, mr president. ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the court of auditors - not just the members of the court of auditors, but all its staff - for the excellent work they do. things are looking up. margin of error 2.4 this year. in 2014, it was 4.4. but at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, i read in the court of auditors' report that in the vast majority of cases the member states, the regional authorities and even the european commission, in the case of the european development fund, had information, enough information, to ensure that certain payments should not have been made. this is a debate on responsibility and i ask rapporteur ayala sender to include this in the report and to look for a method of making this responsibility compulsory and possibly punishing it if it is not taken. i also point out that at the end of 2017, there were some 267 billion in open payments. this is becoming a political problem because we will not be able to make all the payments and all the commitments by the end of the multiannual budget. i ask that we have a serious discussion of this in this discharge exercise.
mr president, we are all concerned about the use of veterinary medicines, since they have a direct impact on our diet, the environment and our health. i am therefore pleased that we are voting in favour of reducing the use of antibiotics on farms to limit the presence of resistant bacteria in food. in this respect, it is essential that veterinary medicinal products are not used in any way to improve the performance of farms and to compensate for non-compliance with good farming practice. preventive administration of antibiotics without clinical signs of infection should be strictly limited. owners and keepers of farmed animals should use breeding animals with appropriate genetic diversity in proportions that do not increase the risk of disease transmission and isolate diseased animals from the rest of the group. finally, i am fully satisfied that the centralised marketing authorisation for veterinary medicinal products is being separated from that for medicinal products for human use.
mr president, i think it is the plenary that would decide on what is happening. no? it is the plenary. so my proposal is that all these points go to the next part-session. only the resolution on khashoggi has to be voted on now as urgent. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, as has been mentioned, tomorrow we will be voting on three very important reports on the clean energy package. this package represents the most important work done in the field of energy in this term, and it defines the way forward for our energy landscape for the next decade. it has been a tough battle for parliament to succeed, as we all know and as has been mentioned, on the energy efficiency and the renewable goals. in the first reading in this parliament we asked for 35% for both. we were not able to maintain that, but we can be proud of this result as we had to overcome the resistance of the council and, unfortunately, also a rather weak basis to work on from the commission. this again is proof that this parliament is of utmost importance to keep ambitions very high, and in that sense the regulation on governance is very important, especially given the absence of national binding targets on energy efficiency and renewable energy. the governance regulation provides the commission with the tool to integrate and evaluate the national energy and climate plan. each member state has to come forward by the end of this year. if the sum of the pledges in these plans do not add up to the union’s collective goals, the commission can make a member state step up that ambition. it is extremely important to step them up because, as we know, the proposals that are in front of us are a first step but are not enough to meet our climate objectives to keep the temperature well below the 2 degrees – and, you know, that should be 1.5 degrees. this package deals with the goals towards the 2030 targets, and in that context of climate and energy targets, that means tomorrow. therefore, however important, this is not an end, and this is not a stop. these reports are a crucial step of many to come. reaching our climate and energy goals, as well as each of the sdgs, in a socially just manner, is the top priority of the s&d group, and we shall put these challenges not just here, but in all the files that we negotiate: for instance, the multiannual financial framework is the next step to come. we are also looking to the long-term decarbonisation strategy for 2050, mr commissioner. we expect the commission to take into account the most recent developments and challenges ahead of us – like, for instance, the again alarming results of the ipcc report and parliament’s request stated in the resolution on cop24. the last but very crucial point for our group is the requirement of combating energy poverty that we managed to get into the energy efficiency and into the government’s report. it’s the first time – and very important – that very specific obligations aimed at people living in energy poverty have been enshrined in european legislation. and that, i can say, is a true victory for my political group.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will take a major step towards more renewable energy and greater energy efficiency in the european union. we have negotiated this legislation long and hard and it is now time to cut the knots. i am counting on an overwhelming support in this parliament. everyone's had to add water to the wine, including myself as a shadow reporter. it is clear that we all want to achieve the paris objectives, but we must not forget that we must also involve our citizens, because it is they, our citizens and our companies, who will pay for all these measures. in countries where progress has been made, such as germany with the energiewende, we see that the hoped-for results for the environment will not be achieved in the first decades, unless we want to burden the germans with a huge bill. so we have to be ambitious, but we have to be realistic. we also need to continue to convince our trading partners to join us in an eco-realistic story. the eu accounts for barely 10% of global emissions. so we cannot compete with ourselves and we must also advocate the green revolution in other parts of the world.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for this report, which is ambitious. it is realistic, however, and it focuses on investments which create real added value and which really show the citizens of europe that europe can make a difference. two examples: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the life+ programme, for which parliament is requesting a doubling of the funds. i think that's really necessary. and secondly: just energy transition fund, i think that is really necessary, also to prove to people that europe is also there to protect the citizens. but of course there are also wishes from our committee, explicit questions on the health programme, health programme, to make it a full-fledged programme, given the revolutionary changes, digital e-health, cross-border developments in health care that are about to come. in conclusion: those who say that a europe of 27 member states can be achieved with a smaller budget are mistaken when you consider the challenges we face. you cannot shout that europe must protect its people and then start cutting budgets. it is therefore essential that we also make use of these own resources and make them a breaking point.
in writing. our union is facing greater challenges than ever before, such as migration, climate change, disruptive technologies and unstable regions on the union's borders. the union must have the necessary manpower to cope with these challenges, including in the budgetary field. we therefore call for a budget of at least 1.3% of europe's gross national income and the possibility of financing at least 60% of the budget from own resources. but it is equally important to ensure that this money is also spent properly. the key guidelines for this are our commitments under the paris agreement and the sustainable development goals (sdgs). the social democrats in parliament have succeeded in getting the other groups to agree to a 30% specific allocation of expenditure to achieving climate objectives. moreover, in the interim report we were able to emphasise the view that the entire mff should be geared towards achieving the sdgs. this means that all investments which are not in line with these objectives, or which undermine them, must be stopped. we want a european budget in which all investments contribute to a social and sustainable europe, which puts the citizen at the centre.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, mr legutko criticised us because we– mr bullmann, mr weber and myself – have from time to time the same pro-european opinion. well, i’m proud of this pro-european majority that exists in this house, mr legutko. i am proud of that, to be part of it. you have spoken for six minutes and i don’t even know what your position is in the meanwhile, in those six minutes; the only thing i know is that you are against europe, but that was not new, that’s every time when you interfere. chancellor, the last time that a university was closed in europe happened 75 years ago. that was in november 1943 and it happened in norway, where the university of oslo was closed, officially because a part of the building was burnt. but the reality was that the occupying nazi authorities were determined to suppress the continuous calls for autonomy and for academic freedom by the authorities of the university. that happened 75 years ago. i am telling you this story, ms merkel, because in two weeks’ time from now, and that will be on 1 december, the same risks happening in our own european union again; this time not in oslo, but in budapest, in hungary, where a reputed university, the central european university, the ceu, will be forced to close its doors and everybody knows why: because this is part of a personal crusade, even full of coded anti-semitism, of a man, mr orbán, against another man, the founder of the university, namely mr soros. i have a question for you. my question is: when will you and your colleagues in the council finally put an end to such shameful and scandalous behaviour in a value of the european union? (applause) and i do not ask you this question to make it difficult for you, but i ask you this question because i firmly believe that more than migration – and that’s an important issue – more than the next financial crisis, more even than putin, i think, that this threat from within undermines today the european union. and we already had a fatal division in the past between north and south during the euro crisis. we already had this wound of brexit, that still is a wound, and now we risk an even more devastating split between the east and the west, going back in fact a little bit to the iron curtain and to the berlin wall. allow me to say – because i want now to come to the role of germany in the european union, because it’s about the future of the european union that we are talking – that since the fall of the berlin wall and the reunification of germany we have made progress: the euro, for example, but not so much more. because since the reunification of germany, it is true that germany has become the most powerful member state of the union: most powerful in population, most powerful in the economic realm, but, naturally, with more economic power, more political power comes also more responsibility, and certainly european responsibility. precisely there i think that since 1990 germany hasn’t always assumed fully this big responsibility, if i may say so. in a certain way i understand too what happened, as the country was preoccupied with something so historical and so emotional as the reunification of the country. the integration of a bankrupt communist state into the bundesrepublik – and that was an enormous endeavour – and by doing so all the energy, all the efforts went to this new gigantic task. but by doing so – and that’s my message that i want to give, chancellor – by doing so, the more traditional, the more – how shall i put it – post—war german ambition so typical for adenauer, so typical for genscher, so typical for kohl, to build always an ever closer union on this continent, lost traction and also energy. the debate in germany on europe, if i may say so, and it is not a criticism, it’s a fact, narrowed far too much down to a discussion about what? about kompetenzabgrenzung, i remember many of the discussions with your predecessor, mr schroeder, or about steuern; that was the debate in germany, steuern – taxes blasting in. so two weeks ago, chancellor, you announced that after this mandate you will quit politics. but let me encourage you to use, nevertheless, the period and the coming months and the coming years. why? well to put germany back on track, i think, towards this ever closer union. and i think your intervention of today is certainly a step in that direction. we need a leap forward again with europe. we need the re—launch of the project so that we can face the challenges of the world of tomorrow. it will be a world in which, in a certain way, we will be on our own: facing the chinese, facing the indians, facing the russians and sometimes facing the americans when it concerns trade, for example, in their war. so, ms merkel – and this will be my conclusion – you can do that. we know your strength. we know your courage. we have seen that courage during the migration crisis. you have a unique chance to achieve it now, to make this leap forward in europe. why unique? because there is a president of the french republic – emmanuel macron – who is also a convinced european, not in the traditional french approach. you know what the traditional french approach is: “vive l’europe, pourvu qu’elle soit française”. not in that way. he outlined a european project in his sorbonne speech and my message to you, to both of you in fact, is: embrace this vision, join forces, revive the european dream as mirrored in that emotional image of both of you three or four days ago in compiègne, holding each other in a tender but powerful embrace. you showed there, ms merkel, the whole world how immensely beautiful also this common european project is and i wish you a lot of success in this. (applause)
the temptation for investors is great. the bitcoin, the ether, the litecoin, the ripple, they all promise huge returns that you can never achieve with traditional savings products. but to this day, anyone who invests in bitcoins and other virtual currencies is riding a roller coaster without wearing a seat belt. as an investment, the risk is enormous: the course really does go all out; there is no intervention by banks or countries; there are no rules, and there is no oversight. if something goes wrong, like your digital wallet getting hacked, there's nowhere to turn. that intervention is necessary is an understatement. we all agree on that. in addition to the need for consumer protection, there is another problem: a potential jackpot combined with anonymity obviously attracts investors, but unfortunately also criminal organizations. exact figures are lacking, but rough estimates suggest that more than €7 billion of criminal crypto-currency is involved annually. the key question is this one: can we use these coins to connect the online user to the real identity behind them? bitcoin can do that, but dash, for example, can't. we have to keep that in mind when we regulate. one last question . who should regulate? well, the players in this game are unfortunately not bound to our european borders alone. a g-20 initiative on a global framework for the regulation and control of virtual currencies is therefore necessary. but let us not stop that, dear commissioner. time is money, especially in this case. literally, i mean. only by taking swift and consistent action will we be able to close the loopholes in the network systematically.
the belgian government has already signed the marrakesh political declaration in may of this year, with the minister of the interior, mr jambon, and the state secretary for migration, mr francken, in the lead. this time to sign this global compact for migration. this text is as disastrous as the geneva convention. international agreements, conventions and treaties all have one thing in common: they are the product of foreign diplomats and politicians. they are written over the heads of the people and the consequences are forced on them behind their backs. for this reason, migration is only an exceptional issue where free nations can delegate their powers. under active pressure from my party, the flemish interest, the belgian decision was postponed. i call on the belgian government not to sign this un migration pact.
the european parliament adopted the telecoms package today. the new rules will end excessive consumer charges, provide faster internet and help facilitate the roll-out of a 5g network in europe. the abolition of roaming has already made it much cheaper to use telephony and the internet abroad, but we are still stuck with loose ends. it is still very expensive to call a friend or colleague abroad. that is now being solved by setting maximum rates, and i am very happy about that. we must not faint: a lot of international communication today is already happening online, through whatsapp for example. however, this measure still affects 9% of european users, especially those who are not very good at digital. this package is a step towards a better internal market with greater consumer protection. the physical barriers have been removed, and so too have the barriers to communication. it is also important that there should be a european-wide warning system in the event of a disaster or an attack. the reverse 112 will allow you and me as citizens to be notified if there is a serious incident in the area. that too can only be an advantage.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the road transport services. the nva delegation will vote in favour of ambitious co2 standards and support sales targets for low and zero emission trucks. as much as a quarter of co2 emissions in road transport come from trucks. if we're going to effectively meet our climate commitments and reduce our carbon emissions by 40 percent by 2030, we just need those standards. the technology is available, by the way! we must not forget that greening the fleet is also essential for improving air quality. our citizens have a right to clean air. the standards also save fuel, which is a win-win for businesses and consumers. ambitious product standardisation is also needed to attract innovation and investment. third countries such as the united states and china are already investing heavily in this. the european union must not fall behind. the transport sector is also a party to the dispute. so why would we doubt? i'd like to put the next footnote. we support the introduction of a bonus-malus system, but we think it is a bad idea to include electric city buses in the achievement of the green truck targets. we are giving an unfair advantage to those manufacturers who build both buses and lorries and we are threatening to undermine the ambition of the lorries themselves. so let's think about it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, everyone has already said: the next european elections will be extremely important for our future. voters will have to choose between parties which are pro-european, which are pro-european cooperation or parties which want to turn back the clock and actually hide behind national borders. i think we all know that there are forces, powers, that actually benefit from europe not becoming a strong player in the international market. so these forces will not hesitate to manipulate the elections to their advantage. the romans already knew: divide and rule. there are two ways of doing this, commissioner, either by falsifying the votes or by influencing the electorate through false information. hence my appeal: we must be vigilant in both fields. firstly, we need to set up networks in which member states exchange best practice to protect voting procedures. many colleagues have already advocated this. the second point is even more important to me. we need to make sure that we're arming citizens against fake news, against disinformation campaigns. i would like to make a very specific proposal, commissioner. i would like to make a plea here today for the appointment of a real special representative against disinformation, against fake news, against cybercrime. i think we really need that: a special representative who can immediately investigate whether we are dealing with fake news, who can immediately intervene with campaigns to correct that fake news, so that we can make europe great.
delays, cancellations and incomplete information are also faced in belgium, more than we would like. the current european rules do not provide sufficient guarantees for the quality of service. if we want to motivate more people to take public transport and if the railway companies themselves want to be ready to compete with new players in the market soon, then we need to do better. if these companies are not getting the necessary structural reforms today, it is because there are too many exemptions and preferential measures. the european parliament is already pointing the way. increased compensation for delays, which means additional financial pressure to drive faster, the right of passengers to always take their bicycles on the train and stronger ombudsmen services, that is the railway of tomorrow. but a word of caution: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway companies are not forced to pay for the services they provide. furthermore, additional efforts are needed to improve accessibility for disabled people. we must now move towards a modern, attractive and competitive railway market.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the courage of people with lyme disease is admirable, because it is a real wall that they often encounter in their journey of suffering. first, there is the misunderstanding of the large number of lay doctors who simply do not have the tools to detect this disease in time, even though it already affects one million europeans, a number that is constantly increasing, especially because of climate change. another obstacle that patients face is the conservatism of medical academies. in many cases, they still claim that the elisa test is 100% reliable, when all the scientific publications show the opposite. in our text we denounce this hostage-taking of patients, who have the right to be tested in a totally reliable way. it is therefore essential to take up existing best practice, together with good care for patients with chronic lyme disease, as is the case in germany and the grand duchy of luxembourg. this is clearly what all the european associations, of which there are hundreds on the ground, are asking us to do. in my home country of wallonia, i think particularly of sonia boulanger, who coordinates the asbl's time for lyme. there is hope - we have already spoken about this in this debate - doors are opening. the european union has just added lyme disease to the list of communicable diseases, which is essential for networking researchers. who recently changed the codes for lyme disease in the international classification of diseases, recognising the dementia associated with it and transmission from mother to child. in conclusion, we have said that funding for research into lyme disease is essential because of the complexity of its diagnosis and the variety of its clinical forms. in the ten seconds i have left, i will remind you of this: a gesture, a habit, a card, a tick clip for parents and for children could already, in the first place, avoid many complications.
author. mr president, the human rights situation in vietnam is a cause for concern. while the european union has been negotiating a trade agreement with vietnam since 2012, the situation is deteriorating by the day. the crackdown on freedom of expression and the condemnation of all political criticism of the government are intensifying. bloggers, pro-democracy activists, social and environmental rights activists are being persecuted, raped, tortured, arbitrarily arrested, sentenced to heavy sentences up to the death penalty. should we remind that this country executed, on average, 147 people per year between 2013 and 2016? in this context, we call on the vietnamese authorities to release political prisoners and activists, to adopt the necessary laws to guarantee freedom of expression, to ratify and respect ilo conventions, including those on freedom of association. we also ask the commission to take this disastrous human rights situation into account in the context of the trade agreement.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, a lot has been said in this debate and we must look in the mirror every now and then. of course, a free trade agreement is of great importance for the dynamism and development of a country like vietnam, for the prosperity of its people. but do we not always repeat that free trade and a free society must go hand in hand? do people also and especially not talk about freedom? i want you to answer honestly . in your opinion, has the vietnamese government sufficiently demonstrated that it is taking concrete steps to put an end to the massive human rights violations and repression? the facts: journalists, human rights defenders, bloggers, clerics, political activists, they are thrown in jail for the slightest critical sound. i would like to mention specifically hoang duc binh, nguyen nam phong, nguyen trung truc and le dinh luong. they must be released, as must hundreds of others. i therefore urge the commission to keep vietnam informed of its obligations during the human rights dialogue.
mr president, two days ago, in estonia, a demonstration was organised by the parliamentary party, the conservative people’s party of estonia, in front of the estonian parliament. it was a protest against the united nations migration compact, and our colleague, indrek tarand, wanted to address the floor with a different point of view from those of the organisers. he was violently taken off stage by the organisers, including members of the national parliament of estonia. democracy supposes that we can peacefully exchange different opinions, different points of view and different perspectives on society. what we try to strive for in europe is for all this to be organised within the framework of democratic institutions and in a peaceful way. that was blatantly not the case on this occasion. therefore, i would like to request, mr president, that you react to this. when, for any reason, a member of parliament is deprived of his right of free expression, especially by violent means, i think that you, as the president of our parliament, have to react and to condemn these cases, especially when members of national parliaments are actively condoning that kind of violence. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to say to prime minister rasmussen, mr vistisen tried to tell you what a devil i am and that you are in fact working with the devil at the european level. but let me explain what i think about europe – it’s not necessary to believe what mr vistisen is telling you this morning. in fact i was very pleased that you were talking about your red volvo. i don’t know, was it a 122 or a 140 or a 240? if it is a 140 or a 240 then it could have been made in ghent, in belgium, and that says everything about europe today. the single market is what you are talking about. it’s a swedish car, used by a danish prime minister, built in belgium to go to the berlin wall. and that is in fact why i’m so pleased about the way you talked about the future of the european union. the future of the european union is not the centralistic nightmare that mr vistisen is telling us it is. i am very much pleased by what you have told us today, namely that also denmark is of the opinion that the worst thing to do today is to throw away the european union, and that is exactly what didn’t happen in recent years, mr vistisen. it’s a pity that mr farage is not here, because the first thing mr farage told us after brexit was that the next domino stone to fall would be denmark. after brexit we should have seen immediately a dexit! that is what he was telling us here two years ago, but we have seen exactly the opposite. there was no dexit, and in today’s eurobarometer the danish people are in favour of the european union; they like the european project. they are still critical towards the european project. i don’t think that every danish citizen finds that everything is going well – certainly not mr vistisen! but anyway they are saying that they are not so stupid as to leave the european union. let’s reform the european union: that is the message of the danish people as i see it in the eurobarometer. and i hear this not only in denmark but in many countries of the european union when we are talking about the future. what we have to do now, prime minister – and this is in opposition to mr vistisen who wants everything as a conservative, so nothing will change for him, otherwise he is not a conservative – what we have to do now is to take the lesson of brexit seriously. not say ‘oh brexit, it’s only the uk going out and let’s just go on the same way’. no, take the lessons from brexit, because the uk leaving the european union is not an enormous success, it’s a failure of the european union. so we have to reform the european union. i want to mention two things. first, the so-called european army, as angela merkel called it. i think that mr weber has given all the arguments about why we need a foreign policy, why we need a european army – and mr vistisen, it has nothing to do with killing nato – for me a european army is the european pillar of the north atlantic treaty organisation, and it is absolutely not in opposition to that. but we have to stop the waste of money on defence in europe: we are spending 40% of what the americans spend on their army but we are incapable of doing 10% what the american army does. we are spending three times more than the russians on military defence in europe – three times more! but i’m not sure, prime minister, that if the russians come over our borders we will be capable of stopping them without american help. my second point concerns the single market. we need the single market to complete it. you are totally right. we have a single market for belgian chocolates. very good. we have a single market for french champagne. good also. we have a single market for german cars. fine. we have a german market for danish design. i’m not talking about ikea now, i am talking about real design, especially in denmark. but we do not have a single market for the services of the future. we don’t have one for telecom, or for digital, or for the capital markets. that can only be realised when we have a single regulator in europe. at one time we had one standard for mobile, you might remember, the gsm standard, a european standard. we had champions in europe, nokia, eriksson... and now we don’t have european standards, and among the 200 biggest high-tech companies there are only eight europeans. none of the 20 biggest high-tech companies in the world are european. so i want to support you in your endeavour to create this digital single market as quickly as possible and to do it with one regulator. and finally, on the values, also there denmark has to play a role, manfred – we cannot go forward with illiberal tendencies in the european union, and there also denmark will play a key role.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister to the european parliament. when denmark comes into the conversation, many good things spring to mind: the global champion of renewable energy, a world leader in development aid, a country that has the guts to confront russia’s power plays by saying ‘no’ to nord stream 2 (and for that thank you), and a country where the social partners are strong and which invented flexicurity as a way to give security to workers and flexibility to employers, and not the other way round. your country also gave us margrethe vestager, the most impressive competition commissioner for a very long time, a real liberal fighting rent-extraction, even when it gets in the way of sweetheart deals given by governments to multinationals. denmark, as a small country like my own, has a lot to offer to the european union. you had four points. i have only three, but at least we have two in common. let me start with the ecological and just transition. we share your view that it’s vital for europe to be a world leader in that transition. we need to ensure that all societies operate within the boundaries that our planet has set for them. we also need to do it in a way that is good for everyone and not just for the happy few like we can see in france. it is an environmental imperative, a social necessity, a geopolitical aspiration, but also – and you mentioned this – an economic opportunity not to be missed. one could expect denmark to share in that aspiration towards leadership – and listening to you, i tend to believe this – and we praise you for pushing europe to the most ambitious standards for instance on co2 emissions for cars. thank you for that as well. but your country – and this is a bit surprising – ranks fifth in europe in terms of carbon footprint by household. if you don’t change political course, the non-renewable part of your energy mix is actually expected to increase, and thus your co2 emissions would rise and not fall. on the second point, migration, we believe that the european union should assume its part of the responsibility in facing the asylum and migration challenge. we agree with you when you say that this is a place where more european action is needed. but, under your party’s leadership, denmark is now joining hands with those who want to make europe a fortress, slamming its door shut to those in need. when you speak about tackling the root causes of migration, you are only focusing on the smugglers. not only is your country reducing its development budget, because you claim – and rightly so – that it is 0.7% of gdp, but it used to be 1% of gdp. but it is now increasingly using this development budget to force beneficiary countries to lock their borders and take back migrants who might have escaped. prime minister, when people forcibly leave their country, it is because they are fleeing wars, persecution, climate change, natural resource exhaustion or their social and economic conditions. if they turn to smugglers, it is for a lack of safe and legal ways to access safe countries such as ours. nowadays, the key words of eu asylum and migration policy are pushback and containment. we believe that we should welcome our fair share, while working on the real root causes. of course europe cannot solve all the world’s problems. but we can do much more to fight climate change, to have a fairer global economic system, and to promote democracy and the rule of law instead of supporting tyrannies, notably by selling them weapons and buying natural resources extracted with little respect for the local communities. let me conclude with a point that you didn’t tackle: the euro. denmark is in the unenviable position of actually not being part of the euro, but having its currency pegged to it. we are disappointed that your country is now joining the camp of the naysayers who deny reality by claiming that the euro is safe and viable just by applying the current rules. on the contrary, we are convinced that no monetary union is viable without strong financial solidarity, both in the private and public sectors. that means a fiscal union where common taxes fund a common budget and, possibly, basic elements of a common social safety net. it also means a full banking union that eliminates the doom loop between states and their banking systems. and of course financial solidarity comes with responsibility enshrined in rules. but these rules need to be based on sound economic science, which is not always the case – far from it – and protect the general, rather than particular, interests. indeed, mutual trust is badly affected when these rules are breached. speaking of which, mr prime minister, such breaches sometimes come from unexpected quarters, like when danske bank is exposed as one of the worst money launderers in europe. mr prime minister, we share your european ambition. i’m not sure that we agree on everything, but i’m glad to see denmark engaging. i’m sure that we are going to have lively debates because in this – we could hear this, for instance, from mr vistisen – we have strikingly different visions about the future of europe. but you know what? i am confident that next year, during the european elections, those who are committed to discourse in our continent, to keep it as a beacon of peace, human rights, liberty and freedoms will prevail.
prime minister of denmark. i am not sure that this is the case. i am grateful for the many comments and questions, many of them from danish members of the european parliament who are committed to the cause. i'm going to try to answer as many as i can. in relation to the green transition, bendt bendtsen is in favour of - and i think it is wise - that we should also reach out for the low-hanging fruit, and they are there to be found. and there is no doubt that greater efforts to improve energy efficiency and renewable energy are part of that. there is a lot that could be done if all europeans washed at 10 degrees below what we normally do, that is equivalent to the total capacity of all german nuclear power stations - that is, if we washed at 30 degrees instead of 40 degrees - and similar calculations could be made on energy renewal. i think it just goes to show that in the green transition we must use all the instruments, and what you are pointing to, bendt, is one of them. i would like to say to mr grapini, who is creating the impression that i should be against the idea that people who work in denmark, for example, do not have the same rights as danes who work in denmark. that's not what i'm saying! it is clear that if you come to denmark and you bring your children with you, you must be able to work and live under the same conditions as everyone else. i am talking about the situation where you do not bring your children with you and where the danish child benefit, which is supposed to cover the costs of having children in danish society, is sent to other countries where the cost of living is much lower and the money therefore goes further. this is the situation i'm talking about. then grapini asked me about my views on the mff, and it could be a very long talk. i would just say very briefly that under a reasonable framework, 1% of gnp, which would be an increasing budget, given that there is growth in europe, our priorities will be to invest in new areas. it is, among other things, development, research, innovation, but it is also - to comment on the very last question from the finnish member of parliament - a more holistic approach to the whole challenge of migration in all its forms, and many have been on board: margrethe auken has been on board, jens rohde is suggesting it, many others are on board, and i think that the time has come when we need to talk about these things in a context and be a little clear when we talk about these things. there is an extreme difference between a young african who, quite naturally, so to speak, seeks happiness in a prosperous europe in order to improve his living conditions, and the individual persecuted who is actually on the run, versus the internal movement in europe on a labour market. and there is a tendency in the debate - perhaps not here, but in other places where i participate in the debate - to conflate it all into one big pear-shaped mess. i am a strong supporter of free movement in europe. denmark will not be able to function unless we have the privilege of drawing on labour from elsewhere. sometimes, too, problems arise. i am a strong supporter of our efforts to deal with and combat, deal with and secure people who are on the run. that is why i am proud to come from a country where we, as only a handful of countries in the world, are increasing the un target of 0.7 in development aid. that is why we need - and mr jens rohde asks what we are going to do in the council - to develop a comprehensive strategy which is not just about protecting the external borders, which is not just about providing development aid in africa, which is not just about supporting a genuinely free market economy in africa which has the potential, in the image of europe, to develop an african internal market. but it can't be just that. it has to be all at once, and it's the only way we're gonna get everyone on board. that is also why i am of the opinion, in relation to mr morten helveg and others who have been involved in the question of reallocation and solidarity, that we must work from a real point of view, and the real point is that it is not possible to reform the dublin system on the basis of mandatory reallocation. it is not enough to say that, it is going to divide europe. and then, with that start, you have to pragmatically discuss what you are going to put in its place. what we can do instead is to create a different kind of committed solidarity, which is not just about taking in refugees, but about making a different contribution in a different way in a different place. because if we do not get on with the development of this concept, which is both about protecting europe and reaching out to africa, and which is also about ensuring that people who are temporarily fleeing something have a temporary place, an opportunity to return, then we will not be able to deal with the overall challenge that is huge, huge, and perhaps in fact the biggest challenge we face. i must say to ronja, on the subject of referendums and democracy: danish participation in the european union is based not on just one referendum but on several. after the danish people voted no to maastricht, a national compromise was reached in denmark, which was also put to a referendum, and that is where our reservations lie. and it goes without saying that if the conditions to which the danes have agreed in the maastricht treaty are to be changed, then of course a referendum is needed. but this cannot be reduced to the view that any adjustment of cooperation which is not covered by the danish reservations requires a referendum. i do not subscribe to the view that we should have this year's referendum to decide whether we still want to be involved. i say this also as a comment on hekel and the considerations of a new deal, if and if the british house of commons does not reach a decision to support the agreement that has been reached, and denmark here, in the light of our history, should invite us in and say that we will just find another solution. in my reading of it, the agreement that theresa may has made is, of course, to be compared with what we did in denmark when the danes back around maastricht said no to maastricht, namely that we defined our national bid on the circumstances under which we can then have a relationship. we went to a referendum on this and won, and it will not be a viable path if it is to be renegotiated in stages. so i think i have to say that i agree with juncker and all my colleagues in the council who have said that now there has been a very complicated process, where every comma in a very, very complicated agreement has been reversed. it is like the construction on the table, and it is therefore the one you have to decide on. i would like to conclude by saying that when the lithuanian member of parliament asks me how i would view things, for example from a lithuanian perspective, in the light of the differences in living standards. and it is also a reply to christel schaldemose and others who have touched on the question of free movement and fairness of things - jens rohde too, mr morten lykkegaard too. the basic idea is that, as a precondition for freedom of movement, when you move to another place, you have to be able to operate under the same conditions as those you had before - that is, in terms of pay and employment. if you look at denmark as a showcase here, you have to say that where we are challenged is not where people move into denmark for a shorter or longer period of time and say: 'i'll take a job here'. if we look at their level of coverage in terms of collective agreements, it is almost on a par with the danes in general, and that is not where the problems arise. the problems arise in relation to service, the problems arise in relation to transport. and the problems we have seen recently are precisely linked to that. we must do something about it, and we must tackle it in a very concrete way, and parliament has a job to do here too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a question of setting some requirements as to the wage conditions on which one can drive around. it is about making sure that we do not get a lot of exemptions from the general services directive in relation to the transport sector. it is a very practical piece of work that must be done and we must work together on it if we are to secure the support of the people. for my own reading of the danish people is that they are not against free movement, they are against situations where you find that under the guise of free movement you are in fact offering people wages and conditions that we would not accept to take on our own bodies. that is what this is about, and it is a piece of practical work that needs to be done. i think i will just end by thanking jens rohde for his kind words. and then perhaps a single thing about the un document, the global compact on migration, which is not a treaty, and which is not a marrakesh treaty, but which is a un document to be discussed in marrakesh. and i just want to try and put it into context to conclude on. it is not useful to introduce international cooperation where the standard is that you can only participate if everyone thinks the same as you. and that is the kind of shadow that i think we see cast on the european landscape, at least in a trend, and which is also felt in a few of the speeches here today. we want it the way we want it, or we don't want to be in it. it is against the whole concept, and i am of course speaking in favour of a danish debate, but i am also speaking in favour of a european debate. the european union is a dream, but it is also a reality, something we must deal with in practice. and it is no use dividing ourselves into camps where you have to either praise the whole project with all its glories, because otherwise you are probably not a true european, or else you have to criticise everything. we must have a balanced approach to this, that when we talk about crossborder problems and about raising european prosperity, even in a global competition that is getting sharper and sharper with an increasingly self-conscious china, with a united states that is turning its back on itself to some extent, then there must be cooperation! and we all have an obligation to start that dialogue with our citizens, where we are told - because i think we all understand this - that if everything has to be our own solution, there will be nothing to cooperate on. that is the difficult task, and that is also where i think - and i would therefore like to thank you for allowing me to come here today - that the whole idea of trying to launch a european debate with europeans at national level and anchored here in parliament is something. we are not done with that, we must also deliver on the concrete content, but we have to start where we are told that there is no alternative to cooperation, other than turning inwards and sliding backwards in terms of prosperity, etc. and with those words i would like to say a big thank you, mr president, for allowing me to be here today.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, under this mandate we focused primarily on what needs to be done for the clean energy transition between now and 2030, and by the end of it, also thanks to the great cooperation we had with this house, we will have delivered on all our commitments. the policies put in place will go a long way even after 2030, but they will only bring us to emission reductions of around 60% by 2050, and this is not sufficient for the eu to contribute to the paris agreement temperature goals. climate change is already impacting on the european union. we had extreme heat waves in four of the last five years and this summer temperatures in the arctic circle were five degrees higher than normal. central europe was so dry that the rhine was in places too shallow for inland navigation. and this is just the beginning: a planet with a climate that’s out of control would not be a safe and prosperous home, and we have to act. today we are therefore looking further ahead towards 2050 and towards a climate-neutral europe, not only to contribute but to lead on the paris goals. the commission is responding to a call by this parliament from last october which was renewed last month. in march the european council also called on the commission to present a long-term strategy by the first quarter of 2019, taking into account national plans. parliament called for an ambitious mid-century zero emission strategy for the eu, providing a cost-efficient pathway towards a net zero carbon economy in the union by 2050 at the latest. the commission has taken up this challenge and we are starting from a good basis: we have reduced emissions by 22% while our economy grew by 58% since 1990 and this was accomplished by investing in clean energies, energy efficiency, innovation and cleaner transport. we have seen that this not only produces benefits for the environment and therefore for the citizens, but that it also creates growth and jobs. four million green jobs already exist in the european union. under this commission we have learned how to better integrate climate, energy, transport and other policies into the energy union and we are the world leader in designing coherent policies that drive investment, and investment that delivers results. the strategy we are presenting today builds on this comprehensive approach. the strategy looks at all the key economic sectors, at innovation, finance, agriculture, the circular economy, trade... in short, how to make climate neutrality a cornerstone of a modern european economy fit for the 21st century that will leave the planet clean. climate neutrality in 2050 will require additional investment – eur 175 to 290 billion a year – but it will drastically reduce our bill for fossil fuel imports, which today is eur 266 billion a year. the mathematics are clear, instead of paying to burn fuels that pollute our climate and our air, we can invest in cleaner and modern european industries that provide good local jobs. i’m particularly proud of one aspect. it’s a strategy that makes sure that we do not leave any europeans or any regions behind. it analyses which sectors will benefit, which will transform and which will lose out, and it looks into how to mitigate these losses, especially through upskilling for higher quality jobs, and it has european solidarity at its core. honourable members, there are many strong reasons to put forward the long-term strategy now: global commitments, economic rationale, but also a key political reason. more and more people are asking in the run-up to the european elections about the future of europe. there is widespread public support for climate action and actually widespread optimism: 85% of europeans agree that fighting climate change and using energy more efficiently can create economic growth and jobs in europe, and i am one of them.
member of the commission. – madam president, the long-term strategy adopted by the commission today spells out a clear vision for the european union climate and energy policy, one that can lead to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, through a socially fair transition in a cost-efficient manner. the strategy is meant to set the direction of travel for european union climate efforts and to frame the european union contribution to achieving the paris agreement goals. in paris, the world committed to keeping the global temperature rise to well below 2°c and to pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5°c, and thanks to the support of the european parliament, the european union has adopted all the legislation needed to meet our paris commitment, and in fact in doing so we have de facto increased the level of ambition to some -45%, and the role of the parliament was instrumental in this process. we should now follow through and start preparing the next step, looking at the 2050 perspective. the difference between 1.5°c and 2°c is considerable, and the ipcc special report presented this year provides a clear signal. if we are to avoid the more disastrous impact of climate change we should seek to limit it to 1.5°c. the ipcc report also told us what we have to do collectively to limit climate change. the world will have to go to net zero greenhouse emissions in the second half of the century, but if the aim is to pursue 1.5° this goal needs to be reached at global level by 2070. the european union should lead in this transformation, demonstrating to others that the transition to net zero greenhouse gas emissions is possible and opens up many opportunities, and this is what the commission is doing today. with this strategy, the european union would become the first major economy to be climate neutral. if we succeed, others will follow. if we do not lead, nobody else will, and if nobody else acts unrestrained climate change will severely impact europe and rest of the world. the commission proposal is based on a detailed assessment looking at the possibilities for economic and social transformation that deliver such decarbonisation pathways. some pathways are looking at reductions going to 80% by 2050, while others look into pathways leading to net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. the results clearly point to a comprehensive vision with seven key strategic building blocks that will be required to achieve a net zero greenhouse gas economy by 2050. first, energy efficiency plays a central role. in the future our economy will grow but we need to prepare for reducing energy consumption by as much as a half compared to 2005. energy efficiency is central to continue reducing emissions from industry but equally in the housing sectors. second, we need to advance the deployment of renewables. by 2050 more than 80% of electricity will be coming from renewable energy sources and these will have beneficial effects on our security of energy supply and deliver cumulative savings on our import bill of between eur 2 and 3 trillion over the period 2031-2050. there will also be additional benefits due to the reduced fugitive emissions of fossil fuels used in the energy sector and in this context, the commission is looking into policy options for addressing methane emissions. a central tenet here is the electrification of our energy system, at least doubling its share in final energy demand by 2050 and with electricity generated by renewable sources, spreading to more uses such as heating and transport. thirdly, we have to embrace a clean mobility system. the automotive industry already invested in this new future and electrification is a promising option but some transport modes will not be able to electrify. for them alternatives in the form of advanced biofuels and e-fuels would need to be applied. and it’s not only the vehicle or the fuel that can change. with 75% of our population living in urban areas, cities are breeding grounds for new solutions and we already see movement towards smart urban planning and traffic management. these, together with clean public transport, have the potential to reduce emissions and improve the quality of life. our industry is already one of the most efficient globally, but the transformation will converge with the need for modernising industrial assets. steel, cement and chemicals dominate industrial emissions and in the next 10 to 15 years technologies already known in these sectors will need to be demonstrated at a scale to facilitate investment in clean and competitive industrial installations. electrification, hydrogen, biomass and synthetic fuels are part of the solution. the transformation will require an adequate smart network infrastructure and interconnections and we need also to harmonise the potential of the bio-economy while preserving our carbon sinks. european union agriculture and forestry will continue to provide food, feed and fibres as well reduce emissions. continued efficiency improvements, better fertiliser application and nutrient management, and healthy animal stocks will benefit both farmers and the climate. agriculture and forestry will contribute also to decarbonising other sectors and eu forests will play a central role in providing biomass. the transition of our economy will always have to be careful of how to make best use of scarce land and other natural resources. and finally, we need to look into how to tackle with carbon capture and storage those co2 emissions which we cannot otherwise reduce. thanks to the rapid deployment of renewable energy this is no longer the silver bullet to decarbonising. still, ccs has a crucial role to close the circle for a net-zero economy, notably for energy intensive industries. if combined with sustainable biomass it could create negative emissions, helping to compensate for remaining emissions in our economy. while by no means easy, these options, if deployed together, can make our path towards net-zero greenhouse gas emissions a reality. but to achieve this vision we will need additional investment of around 0.8% of our gdp. but this can also benefit our gdp by up to 2% by 2050. this transformation will also save on health costs, with estimated reductions in premature death of more than 40% and health damage reduced by around eur 200 billion per year. the european union climate policy relies on global cooperation and next week’s conference of the parties – cop 24 – is decisive for the future of the paris agreement. in katowice the european union has a good story to tell. we have adopted all the legislation needed for implementing our paris contribution and our 2030 targets are projected to reduce greenhouse emissions by around 45% by 2030, which is the starting point for long-term planning. with the strategic vision that we adopted today we can also show our partners that we have started preparing for a climate-neutral economy fully in line with the paris agreement. it demonstrates our determination to shape together the best future for our planet, and this should inspire others to follow. in the months ahead our proposals and different pathways should be studied in detail to understand how the european union can best achieve a net-zero greenhouse gas emission economy in 2050 in a cost-effective way. we look forward to engaging with you, the european parliament, member states, national parliaments, business, ngos, cities, communities and our citizens on the eu’s long-term ambition and its contribution to the paris agreement. whatever the outcome of this debate, the european union objective needs broad and deep endorsement, not only by our decision-makers, by our legislators, but also by all stakeholders and citizens. these debates and discussions should allow the european union to adopt and submit an ambitious and broadly supported long-term strategy by 2020 to the unfccc. i look forward to continuing this essential work with you in the months to come.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. this plan is indeed timely, on the eve of the climate conference in katowice. we can now send a clear signal to the world that we in europe are taking our responsibility to put the paris agreement into practice. our group fully supports this plan. we support all the investments you envisage in research and development. they are, of course, crucial. we support your proposals, mr šefčovič, to create a battery alliance in europe to develop and produce batteries in europe itself. we also support your proposals to achieve carbon storage. you have referred to the chemical, steel and cement sectors, where this is of course essential. there are a number of areas where we can be even more ambitious. i refer to the transport. i am referring to aviation and shipping. aviation will be one of the biggest threats to our climate in the coming years. this sector is once again in danger of escaping and avoiding responsibility. the corsia negotiations (on the carbon offsetting and reduction scheme for international aviation) are in danger of being boycotted and eroded. we are counting on you, mr šefčovič and mr cañete, to stop this. finally, a word on the accompanying social measures. they are only realistic if we maintain the social support. workers whose jobs are threatened in the automotive industry or in coalfields should be assured that we will guide them in the transition to a low-carbon economy. we must keep a close eye on this dual aspect of this transition. i wish you the best of luck in katowice next week.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we can say ‘yes we can’. yes, we can take the right decision to go to a fully climate-neutral economy. this is one of the real ‘tinas’ – there is no alternative to taking this decision. but let me also be very clear. there are different pathways to get there and we need to change that as well. it is not just about greening the economy. it is about making a just transition to do so. we’ve witnessed the gilets jaunes in belgium, and more in france. we should not say these are climate sceptics. we should not say that. we need to make sure that moving in that direction – and we really need to do that – is done in such a way that takes everybody on board. i’m looking to my good colleague, ivo belet. i liked your speech and i hope that next time, if we vote on co2 car emissions or energy efficiency that we have your support to do so. that is really very clear because it is not good enough just to give speeches. we need to get results, and one of the results that we have to work on – and we need your support, commissioners – is: we need to change the governance in europe. we need to change the european semester, take ecological and social indicators into account and change the way we govern the european union. i sincerely hope that we will have the support of the epp on that as well.
over the past decades, the wto has helped to provide a stable and predictable framework for businesses around the world. the wto has helped to bring about significant growth in many economies. but the world is changing and unfortunately the wto has not always evolved with it. i support the mandate given to the commission by the european council in june this year to step up the pace and help the wto move into the 21st century. i am interested in two things. firstly, the role of the wto as a mediator in trade disputes must be strengthened. this can be done by adapting the rules of trade to the technological and economic developments of the last 20 years. there is also still too little emphasis on sustainability and social challenges. more flexibility may be part of the answer. in addition, we must ensure a level playing field for market players by tackling market-distorting subsidies. finally, i would like to stress that the current political trends in various parts of the world, notably the us and the situation in the uk, underline again and more than ever the need for a well-functioning and effective wto.
(parliament's brexit coordinator) on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to welcome the withdrawal agreement and the political declaration. i think that we can say easily today that both have been built around the principles of the european union – that means the integrity of the single market, that means the four freedoms which underpin that single market and that means the ability, the capacity of the european union to decide in an autonomous way. but i have to tell you, and i think it’s important in these debates, that also two other elements have been taken into account. the first are naturally the positions – maybe i have to say the red lines – of the uk government following the decision to end the membership of the european union. then, a second important point that underpins this agreement or these agreements, and that is something often underplayed and not fully understood, is the 1998 good friday agreement, though the european union is in fact not a direct party in this. the 1998 agreement was only possible among eu member states, between eu member states, and it shows, in my opinion, that the european union is about that, about reconciliation, about the end of violence, about peace. the result of all this is the withdrawal agreement, and i think the only and best agreement possible, considering these three elements that i have just described. in achieving this, i would like to thank, naturally, and congratulate – it’s not the first time that i’m doing this – michel barnier personally. he has done a tremendous job in close cooperation with the european parliament and with the brexit steering group, and this also gives me the possibility to congratulate all the members of the brexit steering group for the good cooperation beyond the lines of the political parties. i think that it worked very well. now, the result, michel, is an agreement that, in my opinion, does three things. the first is to minimise the disruption for both sides, in particular for the economy, and to allow for an orderly withdrawal and allow for a timeframe between two and four years to conclude the negotiations on the future relationship. the second result is to avoid a hard border on the island of ireland, to safeguard the good friday agreement and to secure peace. then the third thing – and i think this was the first priority of the european parliament – is to safeguard the rights of all citizens. here the european parliament has, with the help and with the support of our negotiators, significantly improved the agreement and the text. moreover, we are also committed – and i want to tell you this today – to ensuring that, before we start the consent procedure in the european parliament, we receive from our british counterparts the necessary guarantees that all these citizens’ rights will be fully implemented. i believe that this framework – withdrawal agreement and political declaration – provides for the possibility to establish in the future a really close relationship between the european union and the united kingdom and the basis, therefore, as you have seen in the agreement, in the political declaration, is an association agreement, as the european parliament has proposed from day one. why an association agreement, on which also the british government has agreed? well, it will be applicable, once concluded, in a provisional way after approval at the european level. secondly, it will be ratified in one round of ratification by the member states, so as to avoid – if i may say so – the complexity of, for example, our relationship with switzerland, which is based not on one association agreement, but on a patchwork of agreements. the brexit steering group, along with the whole european parliament, will further scrutinise the deal, the withdrawal agreement and the political declaration on the future relationship, as part of the consent procedure.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, parliament will, in this respect, look very carefully into how the so—called joint committee will work. we want to ensure that the decisions that are taken by the joint committee are legitimate and, where necessary, also require the approval of the parliament. i hope that, before we start the consent procedure, we can have an agreement with the council. let’s be clear that there will be no winners in this. i think that the departure of the uk from the union is a failure for everybody – for the uk and for the eu. last sunday – we have to tell our colleagues this – was a sad day for both. so let us make the best of it in the knowledge that in the near future there will be a new generation in britain who will – and i’m pretty sure about this – decide to come back into the great political european family. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, at the eu council last sunday, many asked me if i felt sad. actually rather than sadness, i felt gratitude first to michel barnier and his outstanding team. not only did they negotiate the agreement, keeping in mind the common interests of the eu without ever losing their nerve, they did so – and that is one of michel’s defining qualities – involving the council and parliament on an equal footing, keeping the eu team together in more than one way. of course, this agreement is not perfect; as far as we greens/efa are concerned, we would have liked to see something more than non-regression clauses on social and environmental matters as a condition for the uk staying in the customs union, and the political declaration should, again, have been more explicit about conditioning our future relationship on the uk not becoming a tax haven or a money laundering country. the countdown has to be tough on these issues as we move forward. i also felt relieved: relieved that, after 18 months of very hard work, an agreement could be found. had that not been the case, the worst-case scenario of the uk crashing out of the european union would have become the likeliest, causing major damage not just to business but above all to people. relief that the eu could reach this agreement with the uk without compromising on its integrity. relief that the british government had finally come to terms with reality. the ball is now clearly in the uk’s court. the prime minister has come to terms with reality, but it remains to be seen whether she will find a majority supporting the deal in the house of commons. to the dissatisfied brexiteers i will say this: if a negotiated brexit is what you want and unless you would also consider keeping the country inside the single market, no other deal is available. whoever negotiates on behalf of the uk will face the same legal constraints as theresa may did, and i hope no one of you is seriously considering leaving without an agreement. because if the uk did that, it would be in breach of the good friday agreement, because at once a border would be re-erected in ireland. it would also be in breach of its financial commitments taken under the eu treaties during its membership period, because leaving a club, my friends, does not free you from paying your outstanding debt. in other terms, crash brexit would make the uk a rogue state, a country whose signature with any other partner would amount to just nothing. the real choice, therefore, is only between brexit under the terms negotiated, and no brexit at all. that choice will have such an impact on the future of the country that as a democrat i would find it normal that we would ask the people, especially as the major parties seem to be very divided on the issue. (applause)i will agree with remainers that your country finds itself in a less enviable position now than it was as a member state, because indeed, european union is a boost to sovereignty. in this world, if we want to have impact, we need to act together. and i think many british citizens realise that. are they a majority? we don’t know. can we find a way to ask them? if there is one, it is very narrow. (applause)but i’m certain, though, that if the uk wants to renounce its intention to leave, we should embrace it back with pleasure. equally – and that is my final word, madam president – i think it would be a utterly, utterly irresponsible to end up with the uk crashing out of the european union, either voluntarily or inadvertently. (applause)
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for drawing attention to the situation of women with disabilities in this motion for a resolution. women with disabilities often face intersex discrimination because of their gender and disability. they are two to five times more likely to experience violence and sexual abuse than women without disabilities, especially if they have an intellectual disability. they are also underrepresented in the labour market and in politics. this has led many women with disabilities to feel excluded from society. i sincerely hope that the committee on gender equality will explicitly include this in the drafting of the eu disability strategy 2030 so that discrimination against women and girls with disabilities can be tackled vigorously. equality, non-discrimination, respect and equal opportunities for women with disabilities. not words, but actions, now!
for the greens/efa group mr president, the czech prime minister, andrej babiš, owns a holding company whose companies are beneficiaries of european funds, european funds whose allocation is decided by the czech government, chaired by the same andrej babiš. mr president, this kind of conflict of interest is a cancer that is eating away at the confidence of our citizens in the european institutions and, moreover, in the quality of their democratic institutions. i am glad that the conference of presidents has put this on the agenda for our sitting and i think it is absolutely crucial that this parliament expresses not only in words but also in written words what it thinks of this kind of situation. the commission's legal service has confirmed that this is indeed a conflict of interest. i think that this parliament should take a written decision on this, by voting a resolution.
president, investing in nature and biodiversity must be at the heart of an inclusive, sustainable and smart europe. today we have the opportunity to put our words into action, because the life programme is the only programme that specifically focuses on nature and climate action. it is essential that we support member states in their transition to a sustainable, circular and low-carbon society. this programme is working and it is delivering european added value. i was able to see this for myself on a recent visit to the little nete valley in nijmegen, the nature reserve in flanders. the restoration of nature there was awarded a european prize. investing in life is crucial for nature, people and the economy. it is indeed about the health, the well-being and the prosperity of our children and our grandchildren. that is why we support the increase in the budget for the life programme.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank everyone for their support and i hope that you too agree that the new life programme will help us to promote sustainability, environment, nature, climate and clean energy transition objectives across the programmes of the 2021—2027 long—term budget. first, i would like to start with the issue of increased funding. the proposal for a life regulation is part of this eu budget package, and altering the nature of the life proposal will have a very direct impact on the entire eu budget which is the result of a delicate equilibrium among several eu funding programmes. and as i already mentioned, life is not meant to solve all environmental and climate funding problems on its own. this instrument is to ensure that the new multiannual financial framework (mff) will support the environment and climate across all its instruments. also, let us not forget that the commission has allocated a lot of money for the environment, in addition to the life programme, and not to mention the amount of investment coming from individual member states as well. i agree with the comments that were made that the life objectives must also be mainstreamed in other policies and funds. some meps mentioned agriculture and the cap. the mff already provides finance for the environment through the mainstreaming of policies into other environmental policies and other policies. it is in everyone’s interest to ensure that every single euro that is spent in the cap, every single euro which is spent in the structural funds, for example, is contributing to nature and environmental policies. with regard to the cap, i have full confidence that our farmers want to be part of the solution when it comes to protecting nature and the environment. i think mr gerbrandy also mentioned the broader geographical uptake and, even there i agree: we recognise the value of a broader geographical uptake of life across europe. we therefore need a new approach that will increase the number of high—quality applications coming from all corners of the eu. under this new programme there will be financing addressing the specific capacity—building needs of the national contact points (ncps) through network activities. finally, i would like to remind our colleagues that the life programme was very positively commented upon by the european court of auditors and it was mentioned as being very fit for purpose. also, the ombudsman, in 2017, gave life the award for good administration. perhaps one last comment – and here i want to be a little bit self—critical as well – there are already a good number of integrated projects related to the oceans. but i still feel there is perhaps the need to push more integrated life projects towards the ocean environment, towards ocean biodiversity and towards ocean sustainability. i therefore look forward to working with the european parliament and the member states to ensure the timely adoption of this very important instrument. i reiterate the importance of concluding the interinstitutional negotiations early in 2019 in order to facilitate the adoption of the mff at the earliest date possible. i would like to once again thank mr gerben—jan gerbrandy, all the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) for their excellent work, and i would like to thank all the speakers today for their contribution.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the european union, the main cause of work-related death is cancer. each year, 100 000 people die as a result of exposure to carcinogens in the course of their working lives. silent deaths, deaths that nobody talks about, diseases that are not the subject of large prevention campaigns. that is the importance of the second revision of the carcinogens and mutagens directive, which we are dealing with today. it is unacceptable that thousands of workers should lose their lives in order to gain it. i would like to thank the commissioner for having the courage to initiate the revision of this directive, which has been awaited for more than ten years, and also to thank the fictitious rapporteurs and the council, the presidency, which has been attentive to our work. a first phase has already been completed. tomorrow, with your approval, we will conclude a second stage which, together with the first, will help to save 100 000 lives in the union over the next 50 years. this text sets exposure limit values for six carcinogens. we wanted to be ambitious. with the mandate given to me by parliament, i have advocated the inclusion of diesel emissions, which affect millions of workers. i cannot list all the sectors concerned, there are so many: from construction, to road and rail transport, to mining and tunnelling. but what is important today is that we protect those who work better and better. the subject was sensitive, we negotiated at length, but here is the result. together we have succeeded in meeting this challenge: tomorrow, workers will be better protected, because we have included the fumes from diesel engines and we have set an exposure limit value that will protect workers. the protection of workers must be stepped up. science and technology are constantly evolving. we have undertaken a third revision of the directive, with the aim of completing it before the end of the parliamentary term. but beyond that, i am pleading again here in this house for the next commission to continue to work with the constant addition of substances to be controlled. we need a permanent review of this directive. europe cannot stop on such a good path. the health of many workers depends on it. in this report i also wanted to give the social partners back their fundamental role. to encourage the field to be proactive, the commission will publish the agreements on the osha agency for health and safety at work website. this is an opportunity for the social partners to establish a real culture of prevention in companies, ahead of legislative measures. i am also pleased to note that in october the chemical industry and the european trade unions, in a joint statement, asked the commission to include toxic substances for reproduction in this directive. this shows the willingness of the actors to move forward. as you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, all these measures are not only essential to safeguard the health of workers wherever they may be in europe, but they are also beneficial for companies which have the same concern - ours - to protect those who run them every day. by supporting this text tomorrow, you will be protecting the health of millions of workers. by voting tomorrow, you're going to save thousands of lives.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, once more i would like to thank the co-legislators for finding an agreement on a commission proposal that will help save many workers’ lives. however, this is not the end of our initiatives to fight occupational cancer. the third amendment to the directive, addressing five additional important substances and groups of substances, is on the way, and in that regard, i congratulate parliament on the adoption of ms agea’s report on the third batch. the interinstitutional negotiations can start now, which should make it possible for this further modification of the directive to be adopted before the end of the current term. as i said before, i am convinced that the three amendments which i was allowed to initiate in this commission have now set on track a regular process of updating the carcinogens and mutagens directive. that is a great achievement, for which i particularly wish to thank the three rapporteurs, claude rolin, marita ulvskog and laura agea, as well as the shadow rapporteurs. madam president, honourable members, before i conclude let me also tell you that my staff have started preparatory work on the inclusion of occupational exposure limit values for three additional priority substances, and, of course, we are continuing to develop this legislation on the basis of scientific evidence and in close cooperation with the social partners. i am sure you will agree with me that this is europe at its best – a europe that protects. thank you for all your work.
the rapporteur. madam president, the unanimous view that we have heard here is a strong political message, which shows the importance for the european parliament of the health and safety of workers in europe. many things have been said, but for me, when it comes to health and safety, the alpha and omega is prevention, information and awareness. this is also the role of occupational doctors, who play a vital role in the company and who must be aware of the gendered nature of cancer, as women and men are not affected in the same way. monitoring is essential, and so is monitoring, as we have already discussed in part 1, the cmd1. the involvement of the actors on the ground, in particular the social partners, must be continued. we have been able to do this work thanks to the commission, thanks to the council's attitude, but above all thanks to the fact that together with laura and marita, with the fictitious rapporteurs, we have been able to form a team, a team that is committed to this fundamental issue, and it works when it can be done in this way. madam commissioner, it is clear that we will have to continue to work to obtain this permanent revision of this directive, to ensure that protection is actually the most concrete. i am indeed, i was and i am still a trade unionist at heart and quite a few of my trade unionist friends asked me, when i put myself on a list for the european elections: claude what are you going to do there? well, i'm going to continue my job to defend the wage workers, to defend life in the corporate world, and i think that this, what we're voting on tomorrow, makes perfect sense. what if one day my grandchildren ask me: what did you do in the european parliament? well, i can tell them that together with you i have helped to give concrete meaning to a europe that protects, that protects health and that saves lives.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the whole glyphosate debate has made one thing clear: the importance of greater transparency, the importance of independent research. we have stressed this from the outset. we are for empirically based policy based on objective science. the risk assessments of the european food safety authority, efsa, are crucial in this regard. i would like to stress that we must give the efsa the necessary tools to play the powerful role we expect from this authority. this proposal provides answers to these challenges and deserves our support. but at the same time i do recognize that the concern about, among other things, the timing of publication, that this concern is legitimate, that it must be answered. if we are not to slow down innovation in the food sector, we need to strike the right balance and make workable choices.
mr president, the pursuit of greater transparency is of crucial importance in modern political decision-making. we also see this in the development of plant protection products and foodstuffs. people want to know what's on their plate and where it ends up. they know that whatever considerations we base on make decisions that directly affect them in their daily lives. that is why i very much welcome the proposal from the european commission to make european risk assessment in the food chain more transparent. i do not need to remind you of the many citizens' initiatives on the lack of plant protection products, for example, to illustrate the deep concern among citizens about this issue. then we must listen to this concern. i think that's obvious. as policymakers, we have more than one responsibility. while full transparency is desirable in some cases, there are also certain procedures where total transparency can undoubtedly also entail risks. and this is one of them. because, colleagues, let's not kid each other. in global industry, there are always hijackers on the coast. competitors are lurking, and information is more powerful than ever. so if we want to support our own european companies and safeguard the jobs they provide, then i think the last thing we should do is to oblige them to immediately disclose all their secrets. moreover, they would achieve the opposite of what the citizens want, namely that companies no longer invest their revenues in research and development for safer products, with all the negative consequences that this entails. if we really want europe to be the world's leading innovator, we cannot do that to our companies in this field.
in writing. the risk assessments carried out by the european food safety authority (efsa) when evaluating potentially harmful substances often raise a lot of questions and are met with resistance from the public. more transparency on the procedures followed and the results of the investigation is absolutely necessary. and more transparency need not conflict with respect for the intellectual property rights of producers. that is why we support the proposals of the rapporteur, mr sommer. they're ambitious and yet balanced. we are in favour of this amendment because, as i said, there is an urgent need for a transparent investigation method, respecting the intellectual property and r & d efforts of the companies submitting dossiers to the efsa.
the european council is to meet tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and the issues that are crucial to the future of the european union will be discussed. the multiannual financial framework should be a reality check and focus on those priorities that citizens are aware of. every taxpayer's dollar must be spent efficiently. that is why i ask you to keep a close eye on the european budget. set the example! one less member state means a lower budget. the state of the internal market will also be discussed. as chairman of the committee responsible for this parliamentary debate, i can only applaud it. this year we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the single market, but there is still much work to be done. we are seeing more and more hidden forms of protectionism emerge. you're also going to talk about immigration. we need more european cooperation with agreements containing clear commitments to bring about controlled migration. so no vague texts, like the un marrakesh pact, that give us control over our migration policy. this legislature is on its last legs. i therefore call on you to take responsibility.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i have to tell the council presidency that i have here the conclusions of the european council – already in printed form – and i can’t find anything about reform of the eurozone. nothing at all. what you are going to decide on that is a mystery! is it missing? or what’s in your papers? because, let’s be honest, there will be an annex, i hope, to be confirmed in a separate summit, because it’s absolutely necessary. we need it, and that’s a point that i want to make in this debate today, because i also want to try to analyse with you, colleagues, what is happening in france with the ‘gilets jaunes’. it is my firm opinion that this is one of the consequences of a decade of low growth in the european union – low growth that has created, in the middle class, a request for an increase of income, and also a request for an increase in social benefits. i had a mentor in european politics and in belgium politics, and that was willy de clercq. you all know him – certainly you do, jean claude. he was a former commissioner and he was also a member of this european parliament, and he always said that ‘on an economic graveyard you cannot build a social paradise’. cela ne voulait pas dire que l’économie européenne était un cimetière, ce n’est pas cela qu’il voulait dire, mais bien que pour créer une politique sociale, il faut d’abord créer de la croissance économique. c’est impossible d’avoir une politique sociale sans croissance économique, et tel est le problème pour le moment en europe depuis une décennie, disons-le, pas seulement en france, mais aussi en belgique, en italie et même, monsieur weber, en allemagne. car les chiffres sont en fait accablants. comparons depuis 2010 la croissance économique dans la zone euro avec la croissance économique aux états-unis: elle est de 1,3 % en europe dans la zone euro et de 2,3 % aux états-unis. cela fait une différence de 1 % pendant neuf ans, cela représente 1 200 milliards d’euros, cela représente en fait 500 milliards de recettes en moins pour les états membres de la zone euro. cela veut dire, pour la france, madame grossetête, exactement 11 milliards d’euros, c’est exactement les promesses que m. macron a faites hier, mais sans aggravation de la dette publique, sans aggravation du déficit budgétaire. c’est cette croissance qui manque pour le moment, pendant cette décennie, et c’est pour cela que je trouve qu’il faut davantage accélérer cette réforme de la zone euro et achever le marché unique. if we don’t do it, well, it will be extremists like steve bannon who will continue to use this protest by the ‘yellow vests’ – if i can call them that – to spread his hatred. i was shocked – as i think you were, ms grossetête – when i saw on belgian television mr bannon, in the presence of ms le pen, enjoying paris burning. that was the start of his revolution. he enjoyed the violence in the streets. and that is what the alt right agenda is all about. it’s all about the destruction of the european union, not about people’s interests – the interests of the working middle class in france, and certainly not of the poor people who have to live off benefits. that brings me to the third element on your plate, ms bogner-strauss, and that is, again, brexit. once brexit, always brexit. it too is something that is increasingly being hijacked by the alt right movement in europe. what is there to say about brexit after the past 24 hours? that we have spiralled again into a new mess. the vote has been delayed. ms may is coming back to brussels again, and i think that, in this parliament, we have two messages for her. the first is that, whatever the request may be, we will never let down our irish friends. it’s out of the question to renegotiate the backstop on ireland. secondly, if she is looking, in the political declaration, for a closer relationship with the european union, in order – as manfred weber has said – to avoid the use of this backstop, there will be no obstacle. there will be no problem in doing that.
i would like to ask you not to underestimate the phenomenon of the gilets jaunes, the yellow vests, the yellow vests, and not to separate it from two phenomena which you have created and helped to create. that is the eurozone on the one hand and immigration on the other. the euro area. you need a unitary economy. you also need a unit of social protection, a unitary policy of social protection. that will never work because a greek will never become a german and even a frenchman will never become a german. this whole unity thinking of your eurozone is a source of much discontent. on the other hand, migration. people have to pay for everything, have to respect all the rules you impose on them, while you plunge them into a form of immigration that they never wanted and that they feel is a great injustice and that you also ignore. belgium this week has shown how the regime and the elite are willing to go so far as to commit a kind of light coup d'état to impose the multilateral global immigration issue immigration is a human right on the population against the will of the population. we are going to have a choice next year between multilateralism, supranational empires and elitist globalism on the one hand and the recognition and the human dimension of a nation state on the other. we offer that choice. you'll have to adapt. you can start.
president, is the eurozone resilient to storms? can we handle another crisis? the european economy has been doing well for some time and the crisis seems to have been absorbed, although the fat also seems to be a bit of the soup. we're not going to hit the growth rate of 2017 this year. the threat of a trade war, the chaos of brexit. it's autumn, but the proverbial winter is upon us. remember, commissioners, when you said we'd fix the roof in the summer. well, we're running out of time. after the past crises with ireland, greece and others, there is now italy, which is trying to resist the agreed budgetary rules like a bad boy. as europe whistles back at italy, it will ultimately be the financial markets that will put the knife to italy's throat and force it back into the fold. despite all the well-intentioned political rhetoric, at the end of the day it is always the financial markets that determine the course and we as politicians are left to pursue. it is a matter of the credibility of the commission and the confidence of the citizens, and it is high time that we changed course on this matter. firstly, a monetary union can only work with clear budgetary rules. let's get that straight. the simpler they can be, the clearer they will be. secondly, countries in difficulty must be supported on financial markets by a credible european crisis mechanism. the esm must therefore become a genuine european monetary fund, in my view, a transparent mechanism with democratic control from the national parliaments and the european parliament. in this way, mr president, we will take matters into our own hands and the cockpit of eurozone policy will once again be in the hands of those who have been elected to it.
i would like to point out, mr president, that in the north and south of europe there is a very different view of this reform. in the north, they are happy that there is no common eurozone budget, because that will of course only lead to transfers. but in the south of france i hear ministers cheering that the first steps are being taken. what is it now? i see a europe that is sliding ever further towards a transfer union, a belgium xl, where we are always paying for the debts of the south and that does not work. each country is individually responsible for a budget that must be in order. each country must control its debt and keep its economy competitive. that is the only recipe for a sustainable european project. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. there is clearly no public support for more and more european rules, more and more european budgets, more and more european taxes. the european project is thus being further and further undermined. i am very glad that the northern countries, and particularly the netherlands, have been able to put the brakes on this matter, and thus prevent this vision, this direction, from being taken.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to request to refer the file back to the committee and start interinstitutional negotiations. (applause)
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is now more than two and a half years since we were confronted in brussels with the terrible bombings. the bloody terrorist attacks in paris were still fresh in our memory. the images of untold human suffering and the testimonies of survivors have forever changed our view of the world. this report has become a visionary text with advice on all aspects of counter-terrorism. i would have liked to have presented some of them to you. the report proposes several new solutions. hate preachers and foreign funding of mosques are a problem. that is why i am proposing that a european blacklist be drawn up for hate preachers so that they can no longer roam europe. the financing of mosques and organisations by third countries which do not respect democracy, the rule of law and human rights should also be prohibited. several terrorist attacks in the eu were committed by individuals known to the judiciary. therefore, car rental companies should be able to exchange information such as booking or reservation data with security services for cross-checks with police databases. the commission should therefore examine how to set up a system which allows the verification of the identity of persons hiring vehicles, aircraft and boats. existing loopholes are also being sued. for example, there are no methodologies to measure the effectiveness of radicalisation projects. however, the eu budget until 2020 provides eur 314 million for such programmes. the commission is therefore asked to set up a service within the european commission to launch pilot projects and then to measure their effectiveness by scientific methods. the commission has also proposed to establish a list of all funds for deradicalization programmes. the problem of the sensitive treatment of victims of terrorism is also a painful one. the way in which they have had to beg for the financial interventions to which they were entitled is unacceptable. that is why we propose three things. first, a standard form for claiming compensation. secondly, clear obligations with deadlines for insurers, and thirdly, automatic pre-financing by the government shortly after the attack to cover immediate costs. i also drew inspiration from conversations with experts from home and abroad, including our own police and intelligence agencies. they pointed out to me a number of good practices in belgium which are also convincing at european level. this is the case, for example, of the local integrated security cells which jan jambon, as belgian minister of the interior, wanted to roll out throughout belgium. pilot projects have shown that these cells can be a successful tool to address potential violent radicalisation at municipal level through human-centred counselling. as far as brexit is concerned. the eu and the uk are highly interdependent in terms of security. therefore, arrangements should be made with the eu to ensure that the uk and the eu can continue to collect, share and analyse vital information on the fight against serious crime. i am very satisfied with the present text of this report. i therefore call on all members to vote in favour of this report. finally, i would like to thank the co-rapporteur, shadow rapporteurs, colleagues and experts for their contribution and assistance in the preparation of this report. i would also like to thank the secretariat of the special committee on terrorism for its unstinting commitment. last but not least, i would like to thank in particular the victims of the attacks for their courage to come forward and for their important input. i commend this report to them and their families. the report is the result of a titanic effort, made possible only by the cooperation of all of you. thanks again. remember, making europe safer is a team effort and a responsibility for all of us.
blue-card question. – i will speak flemish, so maybe you can listen to the translation. mevrouw, ik heb u horen zeggen dat u eigenlijk tegen het delen van informatie bent, dat u tegen informatie-uitwisseling bent omdat u vreest dat dan meer mensen gevolgd worden. zo kwam het over. ik wil u hier toch wel zeggen dat, als we alle aanslagen in europa bekijken, een of meerdere daders van elke aanslag in een of meerdere databanken zaten. dus als we effectief een echte europese inlichtingendienst zouden hebben en veel meer europese gegevens zouden uitwisselen, dan zouden we veel sterker staan. ik vraag mij dus af wat uw argumentatie is om te pleiten tegen meer gegevensuitwisseling.
i think we can say, mr president, that europe has indeed taken concrete measures against terrorism in recent months and years, but that, unfortunately, the work is not finished. we will have to remain very alert and work more closely together to protect people effectively and well. the key to this is - as arnaud danjean has just said - the exchange of information. that is essential. information must be exchanged automatically, continuously and immediately between national police services. it happens, but it can always be better. we must also build a better bridge between the national police services on the one hand and the national counter-terrorism services, the national intelligence services, on the other. secondly, as the commissioner has said, we must also combat radicalisation on the internet and also tackle terrorist propaganda there. europol is indeed the hub and the most appropriate instrument. it should be developed into that central european unit for the fight against digital terrorism, as the report says. finally, the commissioner also said we need to further tighten controls at the eu's external borders and the european border and coast guard must have direct access to all the information in the european databases. that is the only effective way to deal effectively with this scourge. if there is one area, ladies and gentlemen, in which we can prove that europe has added value, it is in this area, and it is our duty to put the measures contained in this report into action quickly and efficiently.
i would also like to thank all the members for their contribution to this debate. it's very important. it is not just the words of my colleague mrs hohlmeier that i will repeat, but i would like to join her in her words. i would like to comment briefly on what some colleagues have already said about the small member states, which do not have the capacity and the means to fight terrorism as successfully as large member states. that is why it is so important to cooperate at european level between all the member states. that's so important, because together we can do more than any of us can do alone. i really want to emphasize this. cooperation between national authorities and europol and eurojust. we already have those instruments. please let us use these instruments better, apply them more efficiently and improve where necessary. that is why we have included a great many recommendations in our report and i call on all countries to read that report carefully and to continue to develop. the ball is in your court now. we've done our job, but it's not finished yet. together we have the responsibility to fight the fight against terrorism, that fight that we all have to fight together at all different levels. i hope no one is evading responsibility. as regards the comments on the balance between security on the one hand and fundamental rights on the other. this is not a discussion for me. it's not an "either/or" story. it's a story of one and one. of course, there has to be a proper balance between security and human rights, and i think that in our report we have really tried to keep that balance very close. thank you for your attention. i call on you to support our report in the interests of the future, to prevent terrorist attacks in the future.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we are going to vote on the largest bilateral trade agreement the eu has ever negotiated, the eu-japan economic partnership agreement. a trade area of up to 600 million consumers will be created, representing 40% of world trade. europe and japan believe in the power and prosperity of specialization and free trade, unlike us president trump, who prefers to sit on his island and worship protectionism. we choose to cooperate in more than 40 fields: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. why would you do that? because we think that in this globalized world, we need to work together more. because we are like-minded partners with the same values and standards, but also because we want to engage in dialogue on issues where we may not agree. we also call on japan to abolish the death penalty. we call on japan to ban whaling and to ban animal testing of cosmetics. this is a good agreement, ladies and gentlemen, good for our companies, good for our agriculture.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, three years ago, the vast majority of you in this house, and you too, commissioner, were in favour of a mechanism called isds in trade agreements. yet today, you overwhelmingly agree that these isds were toxic and therefore no longer needed. what is the current state of sustainable development, social and environmental rights? once again, today in this house, a majority of you are convinced that these social and environmental rights should be optional in free trade agreements. i hope that you, madam commissioner, and you, my colleagues, will one day change your mind. why is it that in the eu-japan agreement all chapters are binding with sanctions, except for social and environmental rights? why is the union agreeing to ratify an agreement with a partner that is the main player in the illegal clearing of forests in south-east asia in the fight against deforestation? why are the ilo conventions on trade union rights not a prerequisite for these agreements? no, i don't think this deal is a new generation deal. i think this is a missed opportunity to integrate trade into a strategy that respects social and environmental law.
president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs mogherini, i have been following developments in ukraine for several years now, before, during and after the euromaidan, the revolution of dignity. you know what's always impressed me the most? these are my meetings - and you referred to them, mrs mogherini - with the very active and very conscious civil society. that middle ground was the engine of the revolution and still is. five years ago, since the euromaidan revolution began at the end of 2013, society itself made an important choice. a choice for a democratic model with respect for the rule of law. a choice for a european future. a choice for an association agreement with the eu. our great neighbour russia has immediately responded to this independent choice with a hybrid and open aggression, with annexation and occupation. and it's not stopping, with a direct confrontation in the sea of azov at this moment. despite this difficult context, the country has embarked on a path of difficult and far-reaching reforms. the eu has invested heavily in this: thank you very much, mrs mogherini. is it going to be thorough and fast enough to really change the face of the country, to eliminate all forms of corruption? i'm sure you didn't. it is always possible to do better, it is always possible to do it faster, but here again it is the civil society that is keeping its politicians in line and keeping alive the spirit of the euromaidan revolution. they are our greatest allies. it is important for them that the message be sent that we will never abandon them, that they will continue to enjoy our support, and i hope they will hear this. i'm going to the ukrainian slava!
in writing. the importance of this agreement has been further highlighted in recent weeks by the rising geopolitical tension with russia, but ukraine is on our radar for another reason. our poultry industry has been warning for some time about unfair competition. it's high time we took action. the trade part of the agreement with ukraine includes a customs tariff line which allows for the export of chicken breasts with skin and wing to europe. by processing that winged breast in dutch and slovak establishments into 'european' chicken breasts, the ukrainian poultry sector is circumventing the quotas that do exist for pure chicken fillets. it is simply a structural error in the agreement and it must be removed. the political pressure must be kept up to force the commission to revise the arrangement with the ukrainians with convincing arguments.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i note that this budget ceremony featured four men in dark suits, and i think that on budgetary matters, a little gender diversity would not hurt. this was not the main subject of my speech. mr president, pursuant to rule 190 (4) of our rules of procedure, i propose that the house postpone the vote on the two reports by mr pedro silva pereira on the ratification of the trade agreement with japan. you know, ladies and gentlemen, that free trade agreements are one of the fixing points of growing anti-european sentiment in europe and i think we could make the treaty with japan the prototype of free trade agreements of a new type: free trade agreements which would respect public services, avoid financial deregulation, safeguard the precautionary principle and above all make social and environmental standards mandatory and binding. if we are to make the eu-japan free trade agreement such a treaty, further discussions are needed with japan, and i therefore propose that you postpone this vote.
representing the s&d group. – madam president, it’s a little bit of an awkward situation, i have to say, and i think we’re all a little bit taken aback by what’s happened, so we can have a good but respectful debate today on a topic that is clear. in the sense, we asked for this topic before the so—called gilets jaunes, but of course it is in connection with that. last weekend, we had 75 000 people walking the streets of brussels to ask for more ambition with regard to climate change. and on the other hand, you have the gilets jaunes in france but also in parts of belgium. this could sound like a contradiction, two different manifestations, but actually it isn’t. it’s actually rather logical and understandable. people do understand the necessity and the urgency of fighting climate change, and they do demand urgent action of europe and the member states. but they cannot, they will not and they should not accept the fact that they are the only ones that will have to pay the bill for that: bad air quality, health risk, diminishing purchase power, job losses, unaffordable bills when it comes to energy, bad housing conditions. think about our polluting cars and, at the same time, the new electric cars unaffordable for so many people. these people are not climate sceptics, but maybe they will become climate sceptics if we do not make sure that we make a just transition. yes, we need a transition, but it will only be a good one when it is a just one. and for us, the s&d group, it is not just a necessity or a purely economic process of changing business sectors and securing competition. no, for us the social dimension is absolutely clear. yes, coal mines: they need to be shut down. and yes, we will have to get rid of the combustion engine. but not while at the same time making all these things unaffordable for families and putting territories or families into uncertainty or even poverty. and in that sense, i think we need coordinated action to make that a just transition. let me give you a few examples. first of all, just transition should be a key concept in all policy processes at all levels. second, we need a radical change in the governance of the european union. broadening the european semester with social and ecological indicators which have the same weight as the economic, the fiscal and the debt indicators –that is also key. investing in clean and sustainable industries and technologies and keeping these investments off the balance sheet, because otherwise we will not have enough room to make these investments. creating new specific funds for just transition and dedicating money in existing funds and programmes within the multiannual financial framework. and also making sure no investments go against these just transition principles. and to make a just transition successful, we need a profound social dialogue in this case. this should involve governments at all different levels, workers and their unions, employers, businesses and ngos to work and cooperate together. we have no alternative. we have to make this transition, but by making sure we do this in a just way, putting people and social values at the core of our sustainable agenda, we will be able to get everybody on board and turn this transition into a successful europe. the two most important challenges – and that’s my final word – that we are all facing are climate change and rising inequalities. let’s pull them together and make sure that we come into a concept of sustainable equality.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, how can we dare to divide society into those who are successful and those who are nothing? many of you have written to me, especially from france, since the beginning of the yellow vest movement. in words that were often poignant, you told me of your anger at being treated as nothing, your disgust with our democratic institutions, your revolt against injustice in all its forms, especially tax, which these institutions perpetuate. you can't be taken for fools anymore. no, making the rich rich sorry, don't throw stones at the first in line doesn't benefit everyone. no, strengthening the power of multinationals - sorry, defending our great national champions - is not defending the public interest. none of you endorses the violence of the burglars, but all of you are speechless in the face of repression. and while the fuel tax is the spark of the revolt, i know you care about the need for our societies to respect the limits that nature has set for them. the ipcc is urging us to undertake a profound ecological transition without delay: we need our planet to be or remain habitable for all. but this transition can only be a solidarity transition. each one should do his share of the work according to his ability and each one should help according to his need. now, we know that half of the emissions are produced by the richest 10 percent. this ecological and solidarity-based transition must also be fully democratic, because no one has, on his own, the blueprint for the ideal, just and solidarity-based society, nor the gps to achieve it. finding the path requires us to mobilize our collective intelligence and creativity. so i would like to say that those who want to oppose citizens mobilized against injustice to those who mobilize to save our planet have absolutely understood nothing. between the end of the month and the end of the world, we do not have to choose, these two struggles are two sides of the same coin, that of the struggle for human dignity, that of all human beings present and future.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible for the internet giants, often american giants, to come here to europe and make huge profits from our data without paying adequate taxes. so i agree that now is the time to modernize our tax rules, to adapt them to the digital age. but this can be done on the largest possible scale. if europe wants to tackle this on its own, our competitiveness may suffer and that is why we must look to the oecd first. now, if an international solution proves to be really impossible, then we must make joint arrangements in europe. in these reports we are voting on today there are some good ideas, but also some things that we simply do not agree with or that need more research to see what the impact will be on our economy. let me be very clear in closing. i do not want this issue to be used to fund the european union itself further. i do not want the european union to collect its own taxes. it is the member states that are responsible for their fiscal policies.
president, colleagues, google, amazon, microsoft, facebook: this is the first time that the european union has been involved in a global climate change conference. they all have a market value of over 400 billion dollars. apple even just passed the $1 trillion mark this summer. a trillion dollars, that's almost twice the gdp of my country, belgium. digital companies, colleagues, provide information services to the public. they create huge revenues without having to employ a lot of people. walmart, for example, employs 100 times more people than facebook, but is worth only half that. and who creates these huge profits? those innovative companies, sure, but at least we all do. we provide these companies with their most valuable production factor, which is data. in our completely outdated tax system, none of this is taken into account. it is therefore only logical, ladies and gentlemen, that we should tax them properly, and the only way to do that is if we do it together. how long are we going to let europeans play us off? if we can be united against the british, why can't we be united against google, for example? are our smes so worthless that we tax them on average almost twice as much as those multinationals? i'm not being naive. i also understand the considerations of many countries, including my own, but i firmly believe that if we really want to respond to all those people who are coming out to demand their share of the cake, injustices like this must be eliminated, and today rather than tomorrow.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against corruption and that the european union is able to take action in the fight against corruption. citizens want an active fight against corruption. citizens want a transparent government with full independence. citizens want a government free of conflicts of interest. citizens do not want their political leaders to see the european union as an atm machine, as a cash machine where money can be taken out, where business and political friends can be enriched. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the context in which this debate is taking place. how do we protect the financial interests of the european union in the czech republic? how are conflicts of interest handled in the czech republic? and how can we prevent important political leaders from being improperly funded by european money through their business empire? this is not the first debate. as mrs grässle has already said, we have adopted several resolutions in the context of the discharge procedure. commissioner oettinger, i thank you for your reassuring words earlier. it is good that no funds have been disbursed to the member state concerned since august 2018. i am also pleased that you say that there is an audit for the 2007-13 period, 2013 to august 2018, and that you will be there with your services to see what needs to be done. an audit is one thing. once that audit comes in january, what's the timing? how will you act quickly? how will you ensure that action is taken and will it be taken before the 2019 elections? commissioner, you also say: the czech authorities must first of all solve everything themselves, but we have the letter from mr babiš in reply to your letter and in it mr babiš says: we had a cabinet meeting on 3 december and we saw that czech and european legislation was not being violated and i will behave in accordance with european legislation, but the cabinet says there is no problem. how are you going to solve this? this isn't normal, is it?
president, ladies and gentlemen, the annual report of the european ombudsman for 2017 is always an interesting read. this is how you find out what the bottlenecks are at european level. topics such as transparency, accountability and public access to information and documents, the culture of service provision and respect for procedural rights are at the forefront. other issues raised included ethical issues, public participation in the eu decision-making process, the proper use of discretion including infringement procedures, sound financial management of eu procurement, grants and contracts, recruitment and good management of issues relating to eu staff. in particular, i would like to congratulate the ombudsman on her inquiry into the treatment of persons with disabilities under the commission's common health insurance scheme and on the accessibility of the commission's webpages and online tools for persons with disabilities. the ombudsman should of course do all he can to ensure that the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is fully and consistently implemented by the eu administration. i also fully support the idea that citizens should be able to participate more directly in the democratic order of the eu, follow the decision-making process in the eu institutions in detail and have access to all relevant information in order to be able to fully exercise their democratic rights. that is the essence of democracy.
president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the recommendations in the report that the commission should exercise its powers properly in its role as guardian of the treaties, since that role is crucial to the functioning of the eu for its citizens. the logic is that infringement proceedings should be opened in an objective and neutral manner where necessary to put an end to situations in which eu law is not respected. i also thank the committee on petitions for having given its opinion in various contributions to parliamentary reports on various subjects such as the european accessibility act, the marrakesh convention to promote access to published works for the blind and visually impaired and the european disability strategy. the annual report also shows that access to public transport and the built environment and discrimination in the labour market pose the greatest problems for people with disabilities. this highlights the importance of the recently adopted european accessibility act, which member states now have to transpose into national law. hopefully, that will make a real difference in the field. furthermore, it seems to me that the member states are not doing enough to implement the 2000 employment equality directive. given that work is an important lever for the inclusion of people with disabilities in society, member states must urgently take action in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago we all received a package from an american company called, if i remember correctly, facebook. in addition to this waste of energy and resources, i note that the american firm is actually sending us advertising material to commit us to using its services more and more in the next election campaign, but the same american company continues to evade its own commitments made during mr zuckerberg's visit to parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the internet.
